K821x#15complaint
Miss L, as administrator  of Mr Ls estate, complains  that Topaz Finance Limited gave her 
incorrect information about the need to redeem a mortgage.
background
Miss L inherited a property following Mr Ls death. Mr L had taken out an interest only buy to 
let mortgage,  secured  on the property. Miss L is the administrator of Mr Ls estate. 
Miss L says Rosinca told her that if she paid the mortgage arrears  she could carry on paying 
the mortgage. She says the property  needed  work before she could get a mortgage  and 
shed intended  to get bridging finance  to repay  the existing mortgage. But after being  told by 
Rosinca she could continue to pay the mortgage,  she cancelled  her loan application and 
spent her savings on renovating the property.
Miss L says she then received a call from Rosinca asking her to repay the mortgage.  At this 
point, she couldnt  get bridging  finance as this depended on her showing she was able to 
meet the monthly payments  which shed intended  to use her savings for. She says 
Rosinca quickly started threatening legal action. Miss L says Rosinca applied  £40 arrears 
fees each month.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She said 
Rosinca had made it clear  on a number of occasions that the mortgage had to be repaid. 
She said Rosinca  wasnt  responsible for Miss Ls decision to cancel her loan application and 
to spend money  renovating the property. 
Our investigator said Miss L was misinformed when speaking  to Rosinca about the arrears: 
she was told that once the mortgage was up to date she could pay the mortgage as normal.  
The agent  should have made it clear that shed need to repay the mortgage. She said 
Rosinca should  pay £100 compensation for the upset this caused. Rosinca agreed.
Miss L didnt  agree.  She said £100  compensation wasnt enough for the error and the impact 
it had on her. She said she didnt hold Rosinca responsible for her decision  to renovate the 
property. And she accepted that Rosinca had told her on several  occasions  that the 
mortgage would need to be redeemed.
But Miss L said she did hold Rosinca responsible for telling her she could continue to pay 
the mortgage. She said if she hadnt been misled shed have repaid the mortgage and 
wouldnt have found herself faced with repossession. Miss L says Rosinca hasnt treated her 
fairly or taken her vulnerability and bereavement  into account.
More recently, Miss L says shes refinanced  but she and her solicitor  have  had difficulty  
dealing with Rosinca  about redeeming the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN90845862Mr L took out a buy to let mortgage  with another provider. The mortgage account was 
transferred to Rosinca  in February 2018.  To make  this decision easier  to read,  Ill refer to 
Rosinca throughout.  
did Rosinca make Miss L aware  that the mortgage  needed to be redeemed?
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage say the debt must be repaid immediately if the 
borrower dies. Mr L died in October 2016.  Rosinca says Miss L notified it of Mr Ls death and 
provided a death  certificate in February  2017. It received a copy of the grant of probate  in 
January 2018.  
Rosinca wrote to Miss L in March 2017 saying  the full balance was repayable.  It said this is 
usually achieved through re-financing or the sale of the property. It asked  for a copy of the 
grant of probate. It said interest  would continue to accrue and payments should continue  to 
be made on a monthly basis.  It said arrears  fees would be waived for three months. Rosinca 
wrote again,  giving the same information and asking for the grant  of probate, in June and 
July 2017. These letters  were  sent to Miss Ls address.
Rosinca wrote to Mr Ls representatives  at the property address in November 2017. It said 
there hadnt been any contact for more  than three months, and if this continued  it would start 
possession action.
I think Rosinca made  Miss L aware that the mortgage had to be redeemed.  
was Miss L misled about whether  the mortgage had to be redeemed?
Miss L called  Rosinca after it took over the account.  Ive listened to her calls. She told 
Rosinca she intended  to re-mortgage the property but was having difficulty. 
Rosinca didnt say that the mortgage didnt have  to be redeemed. The discussion was about 
paying the arrears  and maintaining monthly  payments. This isnt inconsistent  with requiring 
the mortgage to be repaid. Rosinca allows customers time to organise  refinancing  or the 
sale of the property. It made it clear in its letters to Miss L it expects monthly payments to be 
made in the meantime.
I think, in the circumstances,  it would have been clearer if Rosinca had said that Miss L 
needed to repay the whole debt, not just the arrears. But I must take into account  that 
Rosinca had written  to Miss L several  times saying the whole balance  was due. The call that 
Miss L says caused her to believe she didnt need to redeem  the mortgage took place in late 
March 2018. Rosinca told Miss L a number of times before this call and told her again  in May 
2018 that she had to redeem the mortgage.  So any misunderstanding was for a relatively 
short period,  given this matter has been ongoing for some time.  Rosinca  agreed  to pay 
compensation of £100 for any upset  caused  and I think, in the circumstances, this is fair and 
reasonable.
Miss L says she was given advice  by a broker or solicitor that she didnt need to redeem the 
mortgage. I cant hold Rosinca responsible for advice she received from elsewhere.
Ref: DRN90845863costs - mortgage payments, arrears fees and renovation costs
Miss L says she needed to carry out work at the property before she could obtain a 
mortgage or a reasonable sale price.  I dont think Rosinca is responsible for this. Nor is it 
responsible for Miss L financing the work  from her own funds or any difficulty she had 
obtaining a mortgage. 
I think Rosinca is entitled to apply interest  and ask for interest payments to be maintained  
while the mortgage is outstanding. If interest  payments  arent made the amount owed  
which has to be repaid when the mortgage is redeemed  increases. 
Rosinca told Miss L that arrears fees would be applied while the account was in arrears and 
no arrangement was in place.  I think  it was entitled to apply the arrears fees.
recent events
Miss L says shes now in a position  to repay the mortgage. Im sorry if shes  having 
difficulties with this. But our rules say that Miss L must first raise her concerns with Rosinca. 
I cant consider these new concerns here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Topaz Finance Limited  to pay £100  to 
Miss L, as administrator  of the estate of Mr L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9084586