K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about the amount of compensation offered to him by The Royal  Bank 
of Scotland (RBS) for the mis-sale of a payment  protection insurance policy (PPI)  on a 
loan.
background
Mr E took his loan (account number ending  3407)  in September 1996. He was to repay the 
loan over one year.
Mr E complained to RBS that the policy had been  mis-sold  to him. It agreed to uphold his 
complaint and offered compensation to repay the cost of the PPI premiums, associated 
interest on those premiums and interest at a rate of 8% per year simple, for the time he had 
been out of pocket.
Mr E disagreed with the offer. He said it wasnt enough. He wanted further compensation to 
reflect that he had paid for PPI out of his current account that was overdrawn.  He says if it 
wasnt for the cost of the PPI policy,  he wouldnt have had to pay such  high levels of interest 
and this has had a subsequent negative effect  on his finances ever since.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that the compensation 
offered by RBS was fair in the circumstances of Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has already  upheld Mr Es complaint, I wont be looking  at how the policy was sold 
to him. I will only be considering whether the offer RBS has made is fair. Mr E says the mis-
sale and compensation offered are intrinsically  linked as any additional charges and interest 
he incurred would have  not have been debited if he hadnt been  sold the PP in the first 
place. 
When I find a PPI policy has been mis-sold I would expect the business to put the consumer 
in the position they would have been in if they hadnt  been sold the policy.  In this case, RBS 
has already accepted the policy was mis-sold and has offered  to do this. I accept that Mr E 
feels strongly about the mis-sale. I will be looking at the impact of that and considering 
whether the offer RBS has made  is fair. 
Mr E was sold the PPI with his loan. His loan account was a separate  account to his bank 
account  but Mr E says its the impact  of the additional cost of the PPI that has incurred  
additional charges to his bank account.
RBS has provided a statement of Mr Es bank account that shows  all the transactions  since  
October 1991 to August 2018,  so including the term of the loan. During the period there  were  
many times when Mr E was in credit, and overdrawn. Mr E has said that he would not have 
had to pay so much for the overdraft but for the cumulative effect of the PPI. So I have gone 
Ref: DRN96600102on to consider whether it was the impact of the cost of the PPI that caused the overdrawn 
positions and whether  RBS is responsible for any consequential loss because of that. 
But I dont think it was. I say this because the statements of the account  show  it was in credit 
for long periods, during  the lifetime of the loan, as well as being overdrawn  for lesser 
periods. And the overdraft, both during the loan and afterwards, was caused by all sorts of 
spending and not just the PPI that was paid for out of the regular loan repayment. The 
monthly amount  of the cost of the PPI during  the period of the loan was only a small 
proportion of the loan repayments.  So I cant say whether or not Mr E would have gone 
overdrawn even if he hadnt  been paying for the PPI.
And equally, there were periods after the loan finished when  the account was in credit, so 
again, this suggests that it was Mr Es choice  of spending which  caused  the account  to 
subsequently become  overdrawn. 
I understand that Mr E says if hed not paid for the PPI each month  he wouldnt have 
incurred the additional charges. But no one knows how Mr E would have used the small 
extra amount he may have had each month if he had not previously paid for the PPI from his 
account. 
The simple  interest payment included within RBSs offer is intended  to compensate  Mr E for 
the loss of the use of the money he paid for the PPI. And the rate used  in line with the 
regulators guidance  reflects the fact that there  are costs and losses  involved.  To suggest 
that Mr E would have  incurred any subsequent  overdrawn periods, or would have had less of 
an overdraft if hed not had the PPI, is too speculative on the evidence  provided. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think the offer of compensation made  by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to settle the complaint about the mis-sold PPI policy with his loan is 
fair. I wont be asking The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9660010