K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr C payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about monthly-premium mortgage  PPI policies, taken out in 2000, 2002 
and 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Mr Cs comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr C has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. However  it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable  supporting evidence of this. Where 
someone has said another  person  or organisation has done  something wrong, fairness  
requires that the person making the allegation  should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. 
And I can see that for each sale there is documentary evidence  of Mr C signing a mortgage 
application form with the PPI box ticked,  or a separate  PPI form that Mr C has signed. I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened 14 or more years  ago 
when the application was made. And, although I cant be certain, I do think its quite likely 
Mr C did know  he was applying for PPI at the time,  even he doesnt now remember.  Overall,  
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without Mr Cs consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
I think Lloyds Bank  recommended the PPI to Mr C, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr Cs particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any recommendation would  
have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs situation at the time. Its 
likely Mr C was eligible  for the policy. And finding  yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits at the same  time as Mr C 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the 
time when he would need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had 
for paying the mortgage. This all would  have put Mr C in a more secure position, if hed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest he couldnt  afford the PPI when he took it out. So I think the PPI 
Ref: DRN93205052would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable.  (It would 
then have been for Mr C to decide  whether he actually wanted PPI  and, as Ive said,  I 
dont have strong enough evidence to show it wasnt presented to him as a choice.)
 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds Bank  explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr C took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr C would have been affected  by any of these.  
Mr C has said he has had a complaint about  a credit card PPI policy  upheld  by Lloyds, and 
this was sold by the same  bank manager. He says this should support his complaint about 
the mortgage PPI policies.  However, I dont know the details of that credit card PPI 
complaint. But I can say that there  are several different ways in which  a PPI policy could  be 
mis-sold. And also, because  mortgage PPI usually covers a much more  important financial 
commitment, different tests are applied  when assessing a mortgage  PPI mis-sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9320505