K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) reduced  his
monthly benefit after hed made a successful claim under  a group income protection
insurance policy he has the benefit of.
background
Mr S stopped work in June 2016 as hed lost almost  all of his sight in one eye, and had
restricted sight in the other.
He subsequently made a successful claim on an income protection  policy  (the policy) he
has the benefit of through his employer, which is underwritten  by L&G.  After  the deferred
period ended in December  2016 L&G began to pay Mr S 75% of his monthly salary each
month - in accordance with the terms of the policy which says:
the definition of incapacity which will apply for a claim will be our "own occupation"
definition for the first 12 months of payment  and after this period 50% of the benefit  will be
assessed on this "own occupation"  definition and 50% of the benefit  will be assessed on our
"suited occupation" definition.
The definition of incapacity therefore changed  in December 2017 but L&G continued to pay
the full benefit to Mr S. However, in 2017, it sought information to assess  whether Mr S,
although unable  to perform the role he was doing before the start of the deferred period,  was
able to perform a suited  occupation.
Relying on the information it had, L&G concluded  in October 2018 that Mr S was well 
enough to carry  out other  suitable work. So it decided to reduce the monthly benefit with 
effect of November 2018. Unhappy, Mr S appealed that decision but ultimately L&G didnt 
reinstate the full benefit. So he complained to our Service.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think  L&G had fairly reduced  Mr Ss
benefit when it did and recommended it should  continue to pay the monthly benefit in full -
and not reduce it by 50%. She also recommended that it repay an amount equal to the
reduced benefit he received going  back to November 2018 together with simple  interest  at a
rate of 8% per year.
L&G disagreed so Mr Ss complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh. I issued 
my provisional decision in January 2020 explaining  why I wasnt intending  to uphold his 
complaint. I invited both parties for their comments. L&G didnt provide any substantive  
reply. Mr S didnt agree with my provisional  decision and raised several points in reply, 
including:
His consultant  ophthalmologist hasnt  really engaged with this process and his 
opinion shouldnt be given as much weight as the treating physician; he has no 
knowledge of his background in terms of training,  experience and education and his 
view that Mr S may be able to perform other work cant be taken as evidence  of Mr S 
being fit or suitable alternative occupation.  The consultant ophthalmologist wasnt 
aware of the policy terms.
The three roles identified as being  suited for Mr S arent  suitable in terms of training 
and education  and experience. 
Ref: DRN99365192Given his circumstances, no suited  occupations exist and L&G has cherry-picked 
from medical reports to support its decision to reduce the monthly benefit.
Just because he uses his tablet for leisure purposes doesnt mean he can effectively 
work in a role that involves screen  work,  and being able to communicate 
electronically cannot fairly  be used as evidence that he is capable  of doing a role that 
involves a lot of typing. It takes  him a lot of time and he has assistance. 
disability legislation  should have no bearing  on his complaint. The fact that a future 
theoretical employer  would be compelled to provide assistive technology by law is 
irrelevant to whether  an occupation  is suited or not. And if such technology  is 
required for him to do the role, then that alone renders it unsuitable.
The errors in the transferable  skills report are not insignificant, including the assessor 
mentioning that his eyesight is only affected  in one eye. And more  weight has been 
unreasonably placed on that report than the rehabilitation consultation report dated 
August 2017 which has been  produced by a medically qualified professional.
I shouldnt have  made reference  to the occupations that had been identified by L&G 
as being suited for him attracting a lower  status  and level of pay than his previous 
role. That doesnt form part of his complaint. 
Mr S accepts that L&G provided reasonable notice to the policyholder that the benefit  would 
be ending. 
Hes also forwarded a document setting  out his comments on the transferable skills report  
sent to L&G in November 2018. Ive considered this document previously when provisionally 
deciding his complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  it for the 
same reasons set out in my provisional decision  attached - which  forms part of, this, my 
final decision.
Im satisfied L&Gs decision  to reduce the monthly benefit under  the group income protection 
policy he had the benefit of was fair and reasonable.
Ive taken on board all the points Mr S raised in response to my provisional decision but they 
dont change my mind because:
I think its unlikely that the consultant ophthalmologist was aware of Mr Ss 
knowledge, education and experience, or of the terms  of the group  policy,  as Mr S 
says. However, Im not persuaded that means they cant  give an opinion  on whether 
Mr Ss sight  restriction  prevented him from working  and they said he may be able to 
perform other work. And thats  not inconsistent with what Mr Ss own 
ophthalmologist said in February  2019. They were only able to confirm that Mr Ss 
impaired sight must limit his opportunities for employment. As I said in my 
provisional decision, that may well be the case,  but it doesnt  follow  that there arent  
any suited roles  available for him.
Ref: DRN99365193The occupational  health report dated May 2019, doesnt say Mr S is unable to work.  
Although that occupational health physician says  amongst other  things - that 
theyre not sure whether the transferable skills report  took into account his double  
vision problems with screens and printed matter, as set out in my provisional  
decision, the transferable report does make  mention of the difficulties Mr S might 
encounter when using a computer  to do certain roles.  And Ive not been  persuaded 
by anything received  since  issuing my provisional decision  that those things werent 
taken into account when identifying three suited roles for Mr S.
The rehabilitation consultation  report forms part of the evidence  to be considered  in 
this complaint. And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive placed  less 
weight on whats said in that report and Mr Ss comments  dont persuade me that its 
unreasonable for me to do so.
Although the front page of the transferable skills report only refers to Mr Ss right eye, 
I think thats more likely  to be an oversight as they do confirm later in the report  that 
they have received  and read other documents  including the rehabilitation 
consultation form  and so Im satisfied its likely  they were aware of the full extent  of 
Mr Ss sight  impairment in both eyes. Particularly as the report  expressly quotes from 
the consultant ophthalmologists letter dated  July 2018.   
When assessing a suited occupation regard  should be given  to whether any 
occupation is appropriate to his experience, training or education. So, under the 
policy its sufficient for a role to be suitable  based  on one of these factors and not all 
three needs to be present. Im not persuaded that L&G has unfairly applied the policy 
terms in the circumstances of this case.  
I noted in my provisional  decision that the roles identified by the transferable skills 
report werent unsuitable because they were of a lower  status  and pay than the role 
Mr S held previously was made in the context  of considering whether the roles  
constituted suited employment. I didnt  say Mr S had raised  that point specifically  
but he had said that term hadnt  been applied fairly, so I considered  his complaint in 
light of the suited occupation  policy definition  in its entirety.
I disagree that disability legislation is irrelevant  to his claim. Any prospective 
employer has a duty to make  reasonable adjustments for employees (or prospective 
employees) who are disabled under the Equality Act 2010.  So, when considering 
whether a role is suited  or not, I think its fair and reasonable for this to be taken  into 
account, and assess the suitability of a role in light of the obligations under the 
Equality Act 2010.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 27 March  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99365194
Ref: DRN99365195Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S is unhappy  that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) reduced his
monthly benefit after hed made a successful claim  under a group income protection
insurance policy he has the benefit of.
background
Mr S stopped work in June 2016 as hed lost almost all of his sight in one eye, and had
restricted sight in the other.
He subsequently made  a successful claim  on an income protection policy  (the policy) he
has the benefit  of through his employer,  which  is underwritten by L&G. After the deferred
period ended  in December 2016 L&G began to pay Mr S 75% of his monthly salary  each
month - in accordance with the terms of the policy  which says:
the definition  of incapacity  which will apply for a claim will be our "own occupation"
definition for the first 12 months of payment and after this period 50% of the benefit will be
assessed on this "own occupation" definition and 50% of the benefit  will be assessed on our
"suited occupation" definition.
The definition  of incapacity  therefore changed in December 2017 but L&G continued to pay
the full benefit to Mr S. However, in 2017, it sought information to assess  whether  Mr S,
although unable  to perform  the role he was doing before  the start of the deferred period, was
able to perform a suited occupation.
Relying on the information  had, L&G concluded in October 2018 that Mr S was well enough
to carry out other suitable work. So it decided to reduce the monthly benefit  with effect of
November 2018. Unhappy, Mr S appealed that decision  but ultimately  L&G didnt reinstate
the full benefit. So he complained  to our Service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint.  She didnt think L&G had fairly reduced Mr Ss
benefit when it did and recommended it should continue to pay the monthly benefit  in full -
and not reduce it by 50%. She also recommended that it repay  an amount equal to the
reduced benefit he received  going back to November  2018 together with simple interest  at a
rate of 8% per year.
L&G disagreed and put forward several points in reply. So Mr Ss complaint has now been
passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not intending to
uphold it. Before I explain why, I want to assure Mr S that my decision  is in no way intended
to be dismissive of his sight impairment and the effect this has had on him. He mustve been
through an incredibly difficult time and I know hell be unhappy with my provisional decision.
But for the reasons Ive set out below,  I dont currently think  L&G has done anything wrong.
Subject to the other terms of the policy, the benefit is paid if a member  is incapacitated
because of illness that prevents them from performing the essential duties of their
occupation immediately  before the start of the deferred period.  L&G accepted that Mr S met
this definition.
Ref: DRN99365196But that definition  only lasts for the first 12 months  of the benefit being paid. After that time,
for a member  to carry on receiving the same level of benefit, the policy says they must  be
incapacitated by an illness which prevents them from being able to undertake any
occupation appropriate to their experience,  training or education. Im satisfied L&G was right
to consider this as an applicable term when  reassessing  Mr Ss claim under the policy.
So the crux of this complaint is whether L&Gs decision to reduce the benefit, more than 12
months after hed been receiving the full monthly benefit,  on the basis that he was well
enough to perform a suited  occupation was fair and reasonable. Im not a medical expert but
Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering this issue.  And having done so,
Im currently  satisfied L&Gs decision to reduce the monthly benefit when it did was fair and
reasonable.
After 18 months of receiving the full benefit L&G sought a report from Mr Ss
ophthalmologist. They responded on 2 July 2018 confirming that Mr S has significant
restriction of his visual  field but he was able to navigate himself with care. And whilst they
didnt expect to see an improvement in his condition, they advised that Mr S may be able to
perform other work but not the job he was doing prior to being off work.
A transferrable skills assessment was then arranged  and the report dated 2 October  2018
identified Mr S as having a range of transferrable skills and specified  three roles he would be
able to do. It explained  that Mr S would meet  the essential  requirements of the roles; two of
which were  office based and the other, would require  him to work  from home.
Mr S has said hes concerned about the detrimental effect using a computer regularly would
have on his remaining eyesight. Hes also said that being sight impaired would make  it
impossible to adequately perform the duties related to the roles  identified,  and being sight
impaired would exclude any role which requires  the use of a computer.
This is somewhat supported by a rehabilitation consultation report  dated  August 2017, over
a year previously, which  says due to Mr Ss visual restrictions  he wouldnt be able to work  at
a computer and he would find it difficult to travel. It concludes it would be difficult  to identify a
suitable alternative role for him. However, in that same  report,  its reflected that Mr S does
watch TV on a tablet,  and hes able to write short emails.  Although its also reflected that his
eyes get sore and irritated if he spends more  than ten minutes at any one time reading,
thats not consistent with him being unable to use a computer. It also says he will (with
assistance from the train company or airline)  make known  journeys on his own and he uses
a white stick to assist him when out.
So Ive placed less weight on whats said in the rehabilitation consultation report, particularly
as Mr S asked  his own ophthalmologist  to provide  a further report  to L&G in February  2019,
after the decision was taken to reduce  his monthly benefit, to explain  how his condition  might
affect his ability to work. His ophthalmologist didnt provide any detail, and didnt confirm that
Mr S wouldnt  be able to use a computer; they could only confirm that Mr Ss impaired sight
must limit his opportunities for employment. That may well be the case, but it doesnt follow
that there arent any roles  that hes suited for available, and indeed the transferable  skills
report identified three roles.
The transferrable skills  report also acknowledges  and foresees the difficulties Mr S might
have when using a computer to do the roles identified. It makes reference to various
schemes which could assist  a future employer identifying the specific detail of any aids and
adaptions to assist  with optimising Mr Ss functional capacity, and explains: given Mr Ss
visual impairment, reasonable adjustments within  the workplace would need to be fully
explored such  as (but not limited to) screen magnifier  software & screen  reading software as
well as travel to and from the workplace.
It also says Mr S reported  fatigue with screen work and says this could  impact his capacity to
undertake the roles identified  on a full-time  basis. And to validate this, it may be beneficial to
Ref: DRN99365197seek guidance on his endurance  to sustain screen work  on a full-time basis.
The screen  fatigue is something thats reported by Mr S. His ophthalmologist hasnt made
mention of this. However, Mr S has provided us a copy of an occupational health  report
dated May 2019 (so over six months after the date on which the benefit reduced) which  says
he:
suffers from the sensation  of double  vision, particularly  when concentrating on
a screen, for example, for anything over around 20 seconds, such  that he has
to look away and then start again. This makes  computer  work and reading
very difficult. He has poor light/dark adaptation  and poor depth perception. All
of these in combination (along with presbyopia  natural ageing process of
vision) combine to make life very difficult
It goes on to explain that Mr S:
has never  had a formal assessment or a functional capability assessment
from an expert in vision loss. This is really  important, in my view,  as (Mr S) is
becoming increasingly isolated and becoming  anxious about  unplanned trips
out of the house as a consequence of suffering a number  of fallsI
understand that he had a transferable  skills  assessment but I am not certain
that this took into account  his double  vision problems  with screens  and printed
matter (that may be amenable, to a degree, with reading techniques, subject to
expert advice) nor his increasing  anxiety  and isolation.
However, the transferable skills report does make mention of these things so Im currently satisfied 
that they were taken  into account when concluding that there  were suited roles  available for Mr S.
And whilst  Ive seen no evidence that guidance has been sought to consider the effect
working on a computer will have  on Mr S - or a capacity assessment has been completed by
an expert in vision loss - Im conscious that Mr Ss sight impairment is likely to amount  to a
disability as defined by the Equality Act 2010. As such, any future  prospective employer
wouldnt be able to treat him unfavourably because of  or for a reason associated with his
medical condition  and would have a legal duty to make reasonable adjustments. That duty
could extend to making adjustments to the job role, for example, to ensure  that Mr S wasnt
spending as much time on a computer, or alternatively, taking regular  breaks from work
involving a computer,  and providing specific software to assist him using  a computer.
Much will depend on the nature and size of the business and each job role will have varying
degrees of computer use. So currently, I dont think L&G has unreasonably concluded that a
role which  involves the use of a computer can still amount  to a suited  occupation 
particularly given whats been said by his own ophthalmologist and the transferable skills
report identifying three suited roles (albeit ones that might  require  adjustments).
When making this finding,  Ive taken on board all of Mr Ss other points including  what  he
says about the transitional skills report containing some  factual inaccuracies. But I dont think
theyre significant enough  to undermine the overall findings of the report. I also note that the
roles identified  are not of the same seniority  and do not have the same status  of the role
Mr S held previously, and theyre not as well paid. But under the policy, a suited occupation
isnt deemed inappropriate if its lower paid than the job being done before the start of the
deferred period (or lower than the monthly benefit) - or lacks the status or seniority of their
own role. And I dont think L&G has applied that term unfairly in the circumstances of this
complaint.
Mr S is also unhappy that L&G reduced his monthly benefit  at short notice.  He says it was
only when he checked  his bank balance on 20 November  2018 (the date he was due to be
paid), that he noticed  the reduction. However, Ive seen a letter  from L&G to his employer
Ref: DRN99365198dated 25 October 2018  confirming its decision  to reduce the benefit  with effect of
November 2018. Mr S isnt the policyholder; his employer is. So Im satisfied L&G acted
fairly by informing  his employer  of its decision and if his employer didnt promptly notify Mr S
of that decision, I dont  think  I can fairly  hold L&G responsible for that.
my provisional  decision
For the reason  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9936519