K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about the decision by Liverpool Victoria  Friendly Society  Limited (LV) 
to terminate his claim and cancel his income  protection insurance policy.  LV took this action 
because it believed Mr E had deliberately provided  it with false  information.  
background
Mr E, who is self-employed,  held an income protection insurance  policy  with LV. The policy,  
after a waiting period of two months,  would  pay benefit if Mr E was unable  to perform his 
occupation due to illness or injury.
In September  2016, Mr E stopped working due to illness. He made a claim under the policy.  
LV eventually accepted the claim. Although Mr E was insured for a monthly benefit of 
£3,000, LV paid him only £1,753 because it said this was the maximum to which he was 
entitled in light of his pre-incapacity earnings.  It agreed to pay benefit from November 2016 
until July 2017,  by which time Mr E was able to return to work. It also acknowledged  that it 
had handled  Mr Es claim poorly for which it agreed to pay him £19,000 on a goodwill basis.  
In November 2017, Mr E again became unable to work. He made a further claim under his 
policy. LV accepted the claim as a linked claim, meaning that Mr E didnt have to wait 
another two months to receive benefit. LV asked Mr E to provide  details  of his earnings 
between July and November 2017 so that it could reassess his level of benefit.
Mr E provided various invoices which he said related to this period. However, because 
information on five of the invoices had been  redacted, LV asked Mr E to provide non-
redacted invoices.  Mr E provided the invoices showing them to be dated  during July 2017. 
On this basis, LV agreed to pay Mr E his maximum sum assured of £3,000  a month.
After making two monthly payments,  LV discovered that the five invoices in question  had 
originally been  dated between March  and June 2017, which was during the period of Mr Es 
first claim. LV considered  that not only had Mr E failed to disclose this income at the time, he 
had deliberately amended the invoice dates to wrongly obtain higher benefit during his 
second claim. LV therefore  terminated  Mr Es claim, cancelled his policy and asked him to 
repay the £6,000 it had paid him during the second claim.
Mr E complained to us. He referred to LVs handling  of his first claim and said it had bullied  
him continually. He acknowledged  he had made  mistakes in presenting his claim but said 
this was because  he was ill and couldnt think straight because  of his medication. He said he 
had remained off work for six months  during the period of his second claim and so LV should 
not only stop demanding the return of the £6,000 it had paid, it should actually pay him a 
further £12,000 in benefit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that LV had acted reasonably.
Mr E didnt accept the investigators findings. He reiterated that LV had treated him very 
badly since the time he made his first claim.  He said that when  he made his second claim, 
LV had asked  him to provide invoices to prove  his income but the work  was sensitive and 
confidential so he had redacted information.  When LV asked for non-redacted  invoices,  he 
tried to retype them but made mistakes  which he said was due to the medication he was on. 
He said the invoices were for when he was attempting  to go back to work during the period 
Ref: DRN91924642of his second claim, that they werent  for his normal occupation, and that LV had been  aware  
of these attempts  at the time. He further  said that he had eventually  sub-contracted  some  of 
the work  and so hadnt actually received the money. He said that LV had continued to collect 
his premiums even after it had told him it had cancelled his policy.  
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
In defence of his actions, Mr E has raised  matters relating to LVs handling of his first claim. 
However, Mr E complained to LV about  this at the time and it issued a final response letter  
setting out its offer of compensation. Mr E chose  to accept that offer rather  than refer the 
matter to us. I am not therefore taking into account LVs handling of Mr Es first claim in my 
consideration of this complaint.
Although Mr E was insured to receive a monthly benefit of £3,000,  the policy will pay no 
more than 50% of his pre-incapacity income. When he made his first claim, his pre-
incapacity income was insufficient to allow him to receive his full insured amount and he 
instead received  only £1,753 a month.
When Mr E made his second  claim,  LV agreed  to consider evidence of his earnings since 
the time the first claim ended in case this would allow him to receive a higher level of benefit. 
Mr E provided a spreadsheet which showed his earnings between 31 July 2017 and 
23 November 2017 to be £29,812.  LV asked for invoices to support the spreadsheet. Mr E 
provided invoices  but the information on five of these was redacted. LV asked to see the 
non-redacted invoices and Mr E provided new copies which he said he had retyped because  
the originals were with his accountant. All the retyped versions  were  dated after 1 July 2017.  
On this basis, LV started paying benefit at the full sum assured of £3,000 a month.
After making two payments, LV queried  the invoices with Mr E and he admitted  the dates 
were incorrect. He said the five invoices related to the period from March to June 2017 which  
was while  he was receiving payment for his first claim.
The total value  of the five invoices is £7,287. Without these invoices, it can be seen that 
Mr Es earnings during  the period in between  the two claims was actually £22,510. This 
would have entitled him to a monthly  benefit of only £1,811.  Mr E therefore  financially  
benefitted from his exaggeration of his income.  He has said that retyping the invoices with 
an incorrect date was an innocent mistake brought on by a mixture  of stress and the effect  of 
his medication. However, I have  seen no medical  evidence to support this and it seems  
more likely to me that Mr E knew what he was doing when he presented the invoices  with 
the false dates.  Mr E has made further comments about the nature of the work to which the 
invoices relate, and says that he didnt actually receive the money for one of the invoices. 
However, I dont think this alters the fact that he presented misleading information to obtain 
money to which  he wasnt  entitled.
The policy states:
When we can cancel your plan
Ref: DRN91924643Well cancel your plan if you act fraudulently, deliberately provide untrue, inaccurate  or 
misleading information when you apply for the plan, when  making  a claim, if you apply to 
change your plan or if you apply  to re-start  your premiums. This means  well cancel your 
plan if we determine that you would  have known, or ought to have reasonably known, the 
true answer to a question we ask you, but have deliberately provided a false answer.
Given that Ive concluded  it is likely Mr E deliberately provided wrong information to increase 
his benefit payment, I think it was reasonable for LV to stop paying  his claim and to cancel 
the policy.
LV additionally  has asked  Mr E to repay the £6,000 it has paid him under the second  claim. I 
think it is fair for LV to cancel the policy with effect from when Mr E provided the false 
information. This was before LV had made the two benefit payments to Mr E. I therefore 
think LV is entitled  to seek the repayment of this money from Mr E.
LV has explained  that although  it told Mr E in February 2018 it was cancelling  his policy, he 
challenged this decision. It therefore didnt  carry out this cancellation immediately but 
continued to collect  premiums during March, April and May while  it reviewed the matter. The 
instruction to cancel  the policy was eventually confirmed on 4 May 2018  and the premiums  
which had been  collected in the interim were refunded to Mr E. Im satisfied this was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9192464