K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained  about the buildings insurer for the block of flats where he lives, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc, in relation to a subsidence claim.
background
A claim was made  to AXA in 2007  regarding subsidence damage. Mr W, whose flat was 
severely affected by the damage, complained to this service around 2010 and an adjudicator  
issued a view on his concerns in 2011. In short AXA agreed to do a number of things 
including paying  Mr W £500 compensation.
Our complaint  closed  and the subsidence claim moved on. In 2017 Mr W complained to us 
again. A number of new issues had arisen  that Mr W wanted clarification on. Mr W queried 
AXAs offer to pay for a gate but minus VAT. He asked about  the settlement  for alternative 
accommodation which he wanted AXA to increase and specifically state that payment would 
be made in arrears for any extra period it was necessary for him to live elsewhere due to its 
delays. He felt the house would likely  be uninhabitable for twelve months in addition to the 
period necessary for reinstatement work.  He wanted AXA to agree to pay for his chosen 
contractors to replace  windows, window bars and his kitchen.  He felt AXA should  be paying  
him substantial compensation.
AXA explained it would  consider Mr Ws quotes  once they were submitted as part of a 
completed schedule  of works. It didnt accept  that a twelve  month period for living  elsewhere 
was necessary. It didnt  accept it had caused any unreasonable delays since  our 
involvement in 2011.
Our investigator felt AXA hadnt caused any delays and couldnt reasonably  be expected to 
agree to quotes without having  assessed them. Mr W remained unhappy.  He pointed out 
that, regarding the habitability issue, this service  had told him in 2011 that if a bedroom was 
being decorated  such  that it couldnt be slept in it would likely be considered uninhabitable.  
He remained of the view that AXA should pay at least  £5,000 compensation.
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision to share  with Mr W my 
view on the habitability issue  hed complained  about. But, like our investigator,  I didnt  think 
the complaint  should be upheld. AXA considered my findings and said it had nothing further 
to add. Mr W responded to my provisional findings and, having considered his point, Im now 
issuing my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I said:
Regarding VAT, it isnt unusual for an insurer to settle cash sums exclusive of VAT until 
such a time as VAT is shown as being  due. Im satisfied AXAs offer in this respect  here was 
fair and reasonable.  
Mr W confirmed  this issue is now resolved, so Ill say no more about  it. 
Ref: DRN95912032My provisional findings continued:
Im also satisfied that its fair and reasonable for AXA to want to see like-for-like  quotes 
factored into the schedule  for repair before it will agree to making  settlement  for windows, 
window bars and the kitchen  replacement.  It would be unfair and unreasonable  to expect 
AXA to say it would  pay Mr Ws quotes/agree  to his contractor replacing those items, without 
first having had a chance to see the detail of those, including the price.
Mr W said that he wants AXA to be clear that it will agree to pay for these items, and he also 
said he understands that AXA has said a quote from a particular trader for a replacement  
kitchen can be provided which  therefore means  it has agreed to pay that quote.
I have little more  to say on this point except to emphasize that its fair for AXA to say it will 
consider new evidence provided,  and that in agreeing to consider such  it cant fairly  be said 
to have agreed to pay any sums included. 
My provisional findings continued:
It would also be unfair  and unreasonable in my view to expect AXA to review the offer its 
made for alternative  accommodation unless or until a full schedule  is submitted and 
validated thereby determining the length of insured repairs.  At that time AXA can review 
current costs for living elsewhere. This is important not least  because  the period  for works, 
and thus the period during which the property  will likely be uninhabitable, may well have an 
impact on the type and cost of alternative  accommodation that AXA is prepared to offer 
cover for.
Im not persuaded that AXA reasonably needs to give Mr W any further assurances or 
clarification regarding what will happen  if delays occur. I think  its given a reasonable answer 
in this respect already.
Mr W said AXA should confirm the offer in place for living elsewhere and agree to pay 
monthly amounts  up front starting straight away; he simply cant  fund living  elsewhere 
alongside his mortgage. Mr W also said AXA should  agree to extend the alternative 
accommodation if delays  occur,  rather  than be allowed to maintain its position that it will 
consider this. He said he cant  move  out with such a vague answer in place. 
As I said provisionally, AXA fairly needs to have  sight of the full schedule  of works before it 
can reasonably  make  a final offer for accommodation. Once offered AXA might  also want to 
see sight of a booking  or rental agreement or similar to evidence Mr Ws costs  and/or that he 
is staying elsewhere  before  any payment  is made. That is quite normal in insurance claims 
and it would be unreasonable of me to prevent  AXA from exercising its right to validate that 
part of Mr Ws claim in that way.
I cant reasonably require AXA to just agree, at this point, when repairs  havent  even started  
yet, to extend the period  for accommodation if delays occur.  I appreciate that Mr W wants to 
have some certainty about what will happen  as things  move forwards but AXA has a duty to 
validate claim costs. That means it reasonably needs to have a chance  to consider things in 
the first instance. And that is what it has agreed  to do here. Im not going to make  it do 
anything more. 
My provisional findings continued:
Ref: DRN95912033In respect  of habitability,  a home  is usually  considered uninhabitable if it is without  heating, 
hot water  and/or cooking facilities. Whilst having somewhere to sleep is important too I dont 
accept that a room or rooms that are waiting to be decorated cant have furniture in them, 
including beds. Whilst the finishing dcor  cant be applied, according to the tanking  
company, for a period of twelve months,  that doesnt  mean the home  cant  be lived in. There  
will be access to all the normal  facilities and furniture  its just that the property wont  feel as 
homely as it would if the decor was complete. Im not going  to require AXA to factor a twelve 
month period  into any settlement it makes  for Mr W to live elsewhere. In my view that 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable.
Mr W said his house is full of mould and damp  and that makes it uninhabitable. He said that 
when repairs are done thousands of litres  of water will be applied  to the walls as part of the 
render process and the damp treatment expert has said the walls need  to breathe for twelve  
months as a result. This means the flat will be soaking wet as all the water  evaporates and it 
wont be possible for him to live in the flat or rent it out.
Mr Ws complaint  as made to us was regarding whether AXA should cover his stay 
elsewhere for the twelve month period during which his home cant  be finally decorated.  
I see from AXAs file that it has looked into the cause of the mould in the property but the fact 
of the mould and the living conditions it presents wasnt a factor of the current complaint.  
The policy offers cover  for the policyholder to live elsewhere as a result of insured damage 
making the home uninhabitable. If Mr W wants AXA to consider  moving  him out straight 
away then itll need to tell him whether the state of the property as caused by the mould, 
entitles him to receive the benefit of the cover as set out on the policy; ie does it make the 
property uninhabitable and has it resulted from insured damage.
I know Mr W is worried about increased moisture levels in his home  following the render 
work. But I havent seen  anything  to make me think thousands of litres of water  will be 
pumped into his walls as part of that process. And nor did the specialist company suggest  
the moisture levels in the home would be too high for it to be safely lived in  all it said was 
that the home couldnt be decorated fully for twelve months, although breathable paint could 
be applied. And it was on the basis  of a lack of decoration that Mr W initially  argued  that his 
home would be uninhabitable.  
My provisional findings continued:
This claim has clearly  gone on for a long time.  But I dont make  compensation awards  just 
because repairs take time to complete. Compensation is linked to an insurer  failing its 
policyholder in some way. If a claim took time just because it was complex and took time to 
complete whilst being handled  reasonably with no failures, then I wont award compensation 
for that.
From what  Ive seen here I think AXA handled this claim  adequately.  It was clearly  complex  
with a number  of elements and complicating factors to take into account. Mr W has chosen 
to use his own contractors as well which hasnt always allowed matters to progress as 
quickly as they could have done.
Ref: DRN95912034Mr W has said that AXA could have carried out the external  painting,  agreed to in 2011, long 
before it did eventually do so in around  2017.  Im not convinced  this is the case  or that if it 
is that the delay was the result of a failure  of AXA. It may well be that the painting couldnt 
reasonably have been done until other elements  of the claim were  complete. In any event a 
delay, even an unreasonable one, regarding external painting,  isnt something Id feel 
inclined to award compensation for as I havent  seen  that any delay in this respect  caused
Mr W any particular distress and/or inconvenience.
Mr W said again that the claim has taken far too long and I do understand the frustration 
Mr W has experienced. However, as I explained  provisionally, I, and my colleagues,  dont 
award compensation merely due to the length of time a claim has been  on-going.  For me to 
award compensation, I have to find that the time period is unreasonable   in the 
circumstances of the complaint  and that it has resulted from some failure of the insurer. 
For example; subsidence claims commonly take over a year to complete  which  often isnt felt 
to be unreasonable because, if they are handled effectively, before they can be concluded,  
the property has to be monitored,  sometimes for an extensive period. 
I mention subsidence  above in general  terms as it provides a good example of why the 
length of time for a claim alone cant be taken as indicative of whether compensation is fairly  
and reasonably due. But I consider the merits of each complaint I see individually.  Having 
done that here I remain of the view that Mr Ws claim  wasnt  a straightforward  one and that 
I havent seen  that AXA caused  any unreasonable delays  or that Mr W suffered distress and 
inconvenience because  of it failing him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make  any award against  AXA Insurance  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9591203