K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Scottish  Widows Limiteds  predecessor business bulldozed her late husband into 
taking out an unnecessary  mortgage protection known as TMPP (which included life and 
critical illness cover) as part of the mortgage in 2005. This cover of £152,000 was still in 
place at the time of his death in 2012 yet Scottish Widows has still not paid out on the policy.
background
Scottish Widows  said that the mortgage did not include a protection/cover element or linked 
policy and Mr K had never applied  for such a policy. Its records  showed  that his son had 
applied for life and critical illness cover  but then cancelled his application during the cooling-
off period. It acknowledged Mrs Ks evidence that her husband and son had considered 
taking out the mortgage  jointly but this has no impact on this complaint  or its merits.
It said if Mr K had bought  a policy he would have been issued with a policy  number and 
copies of the schedule, terms and conditions,  none of which occurred. As such, there  was no 
policy for Mrs K to have  claimed on, and she had not produced any evidence  to the contrary. 
As she was not directly  involved in the conversations at the time her speculations  were  just 
that. Her suggestion  that it had manufactured false information was absurd. The evidence it 
provided are straight-forward screen  prints of what it holds on computer.
An adjudicator at this service  felt the evidence  showed that Mr K had taken out a standalone  
mortgage which did not include any life cover, and that the monthly payments solely  covered 
the mortgage borrowing costs. She also felt there had been no life cover conditions to the 
mortgage. Overall, she had seen no persuasive  evidence to indicate  that he had taken out a 
policy for which Mrs K would be entitled  to claim on.
Mrs K did not agree,  and said:
The evidence shes received after her Subject Access Requests is far from credible, 
including the alleged documents showing her son took out the policy; he had nothing 
to do with it
The new evidence suggests the policy was taken out with St Andrews  Group so why 
is the complaint  against Scottish Widows?
Is St Andrews were the underwriters, why did she receive  a suspicious print-out from 
a different business?
She doesnt accept  that the TMPP premiums  would  necessarily  have shown as 
separate debits  on her husbands bank statements but is also no longer in position to 
obtain evidence  given her husband  is no longer  with her
Its not fair that the onus  has been on her to prove the policy  was in existence; the 
broader evidence  she has produced  should  be sufficient to convince  this service that 
her complaint should be upheld
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN94904912I am satisfied that theres not sufficient evidence to conclude that Mrs Ks late husband either 
took out a mortgage protection policy or that one was an integral part of the mortgage (but 
with an additional  monthly cost). 
Halifax, the predecessor  business, outlined the key Mr K detailed  of the new mortgage  in a 
letter dated  1 February 2005. This explained the part repayment,  part-interest-only  nature of 
the mortgage, the loan sum,  the monthly payments  and the cost of the arrangement fee. It is 
clear that this mortgage did not include protection cover. This is apparent from a separate  
paragraph which refers  to a separate consideration of any application for TMPP. It is not 
clear whether this sentence meant that Mr K had separately applied for a TMPP policy  or 
was simply a standard phrase  used in mortgage approval letters to cover anyone  who might  
have applied  for a TMPP policy.  
I think its important to explain that  unlike PPI which was often a hidden  cost  mortgage  
protection has always been sold and administered as a completely separate  product from a 
mortgage. I have  never  seen a case where  a bank or building society  sold a mortgage which  
included insurance  protection as an integral part, and paid for by a single monthly premium. 
Neither have any of my colleagues who I checked this with.
This is because businesses mortgage  and insurance departments are completely separate 
and issue their own contracts/policies and require separate direct debits for each product. If 
Mr K had taken out a form of TMPP he would have received  a completely separate  
document for this policy with its own unique policy number and been required to pay a 
discreet monthly direct debit for it.
Given there is no evidence for any of these things, I am satisfied he did not purchase life 
and/or critical illness cover.
Mrs Ks various documents quoting mortgage  protection cover seem  most likely to refer what  
appears to have been an application for TMPP made by her son, which he didnt go ahead 
with. This makes sense  of why she has so many  documents about this type of policy and 
explains why she clearly  believes  her husband  was sold such cover.
Overall, I do not share Mrs Ks concerns about  the documentation supplied  by Scottish 
Widows. In particular  I think the evidence shows that her son did apply for a mortgage  
protection policy, contrary to Mrs Ks contention,  and that this application was initially 
processed and the mortgage protection documentation she has relates to this. 
I acknowledge that her husband and son shared  the same first name  which could have 
given rise to confusion  on either side  but Scottish  Widows key letters  include  her sons 
middle name  in the policy application. The documents Mrs K refers to in support of her 
complaint, such as the one stating the proposed  premium cost,  are clearly addressed to her 
son in relation to his proposed application.
I understand that Mrs K may still not accept that the evidence is definitive or conclusive but 
my role is to decide whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude  that a business did 
something wrong; in this case sold Mr K mortgage protection,  charged him for this but 
refused to pay out when he died. But there is not sufficient, persuasive evidence to reach 
such a conclusion.
Finally, I am satisfied that this complaint was correctly set up against Scottish Widows as it is 
the business who is now responsible for the original sale.
Ref: DRN94904913my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9490491