K820x#14complaint
Mr D says that he was mis-sold  a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
In 1997 Mr D applied  for a mortgage  with Santander. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to protect his mortgage repayments  if Mr D lost his job or was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr D disagrees.  He says it was added without his consent and he didnt know he had it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
The policy was taken  out at the same time Mr D got his mortgage.  Santander  had to make it 
clear the PPI was optional  and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr D says this wasnt  done 
but hasnt given us much detail about  what was said when he took out the mortgage  to make 
him think this. But I think thats understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive 
relied more on what  the documents  from the time show and what I think  is most likely to 
have happened.
The PPI policy is a standalone policy and applied for on a separate  application form with a 
separate direct debit  mandate from the mortgage. Due to the passage of time Santander  
doesnt have a copy of the application form that was completed for Mr D but I think it was 
likely a form was completed as I have seen a copy of the welcome letter sent out to him 
which confirms Mr D applied for PPI and that a direct debit payment had been set up for it. 
So I think Mr D wouldve  understood  he had a choice in taking the policy and that it was 
separate from the mortgage. 
Also despite  Mr D saying he didnt know he had the policy,  I think  Mr D was aware he had 
PPI because he had a successful claim on the policy in 2008 for unemployment. 
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr D could make an 
informed choice about buying  PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for Mr Ds needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D for the following  reasons:
Ref: DRN97065002He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr D says he wasnt entitled any sick pay but his partner  couldve 
helped him with his repayments if he couldnt work. But there is no guarantee his partner 
could help and policy wouldve covered his mortgage payments for up to 12 months  per 
claim if Mr D was too sick to work  or lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr D in his circumstances 
especially considering  he was taking on a significant  and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments  I think  Mr 
D wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr D at the time.  And if 
he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr D information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy  out. I dont  know  if Santander  gave  all the information  as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr D 
has told us about  his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI 
policy if hed been  given all the proper information  at the time of sale.
This means  Mr D isnt any worse  off as a result  of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9706500