K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
mortgage in 1998. The policy was amended in 2001  when Miss S applied  for a further 
advance. Miss S says Skipton Building  Society mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Skipton had to make  Miss S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. Theres limited  information available  from the time the PPI was 
sold but the information available  shows Skipton  sent Miss S a letter on 2 July 1998 offering  
PPI free for the first six months  of her mortgage,  it also asks for Miss S to confirm if she 
wanted to take the offer.  The mortgage  offer dated  28 July 1998 then includes the PPI 
policy. With this in mind I think its likely  Miss S then confirmed she wanted to take the PPI.
I also think Miss S would have known  by this point she didnt have to take the PPI as a 
condition of her mortgage.
Miss S has told us the PPI was recommended to her, but I havent seen evidence  to suggest 
Skipton made a tailored  recommendation about  the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss S got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Skipton gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
of making her payments which included sick pay, an income  protection policy,  critical illness 
insurance, a death  in service cover and help form parents. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Miss Ss sick pay and covered her for circumstances that her other policies 
wouldnt have. While  Miss Ss parents would have wanted to help their ability  to would have  
been dependent on their circumstances  at the time,  which  could have changed. And as Ive 
said above I think Miss S chose to take the PP so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Skipton  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN95535652Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9553565