K820x#14Complaint
Miss T says ACF Car Finance Limited (ACF) mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a car loan. She says it was implied  at the sales meeting that she had to 
agree to the PPI and she had no option.  
Background
Miss T was sold a single  premium PPI policy during a meeting  with ACF when she took out a 
loan to buy a second-hand car in 2005. The loan was over a term of 36 months. The PPI 
cost around £1197 and was the type that had to be paid for up front  in one single payment. 
Like the loan,  the PPI attracted interest and also covered  a 36 month term. It protected  Miss 
T against  losing her job or being  ill and it would have helped pay off her loan in these 
circumstances.
Our adjudicator who looked at this complaint said it shouldnt be upheld. But Miss T 
disagreed and asked for the case to go for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ts case.  
Having done this Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt  that Miss T honestly and genuinely feels 
she was mis-sold the PPI. However, Ive been  sent the sale documentation  which  I think 
would have allowed  her to see that the purchase  of the PPI was optional. In short, she would 
have been able to see she didnt need  to buy it if she didnt want  to.
I think this because theres a section  on the agreement that says I wish to purchase  
.Payment Protection  Insurance. There is a box directly next to this which  is ticked  and 
Miss Ts signature  is directly underneath.
I accept Miss T says she was told certain things about her credit  worthiness and also that 
the paperwork was filled out for her rather than by her. But I think any reading of the above 
would show this was an optional policy and she did sign it. This to me strongly  suggests  she 
would have read what the agreement said.
So Im afraid  I consider  the evidence quite  strong  that ACF did enough to get her consent.  I 
think she agreed to the PPI cover.
I think its quite likely  ACF recommended the PPI cover  to Miss T so it had a duty to ensure it 
was suitable for her. After  such a long time this can be difficult to judge because  it can often 
depend on the applicants individual circumstances and their attitude to risk. 
But having  looked carefully at her overall situation,  I think Miss T was eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. I see 
Miss T had quite moderate  protection against  sickness with her job. The PPI would have 
covered her loan repayments for unemployment  and sickness for longer than the cover she 
Ref: DRN97339372enjoyed though her work.  So whilst  I cant  say for sure why she chose  to take out the policy, 
I can see it was useful  in her circumstances. 
Overall, I think the PPI policy was suitable for her.
ACF also had a responsibility to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so Miss T could make an informed decision about buying this cover.  I cant say what was 
actually discussed  between the parties or whether  Miss T was given all the information she 
should have been given.  And I can certainly see how ACF could have made some of its 
forms clearer, including setting out what Miss T might expect to be refunded  if shed cashed  
in her single premium policy early. 
But I dont think this would have made  any difference to whether or not shed have still 
bought the policy. I say this because I dont think it was suspected  or likely that Miss T 
intended to cash  in her loan or PPI early.  I also think the cost of both the loan and the PPI 
part of the loan were set out on the credit agreement she signed,  in addition  to specifically 
signing for the PPI. So she would have  been  able to understand  the costs  she was facing. 
Ive looked carefully  over all the information Miss T has sent to us but I think  its more likely 
this policy  wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint or direct  ACF Car Finance 
Limited to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9733937