K821x#15complaint
Miss W and Mr S complaint that Santander  UK Plc wont  let them transfer  their mortgage 
into Miss Ws sole name. They  say that if they cant change the borrower, they think  the 
mortgage must have  been mis-sold.
background
In October  2007, Miss W and Mr S took out a mortgage with Santander for around £112,200 
 95% was on an interest only basis and 5% was on a repayment basis. The term of the 
mortgage was 35 years  so it was due to end in 2042. They also took out a fixed  sum loan 
for around  £6,000.
In around 2008,  Miss W said she and Mr S ended their relationship  and Mr S moved abroad. 
In 2009, Mr S contacted Santander to ask about transferring the property and mortgage  to 
Miss Ws sole name. Some information  was sent to Miss W and Mr S in 2010  but an 
application wasnt made at that stage. 
In 2017, Miss W applied for consent to let the property out and this was agreed. The same 
day consent was given, Miss W contacted Santander to ask about transferring the mortgage 
to her name only. Santanders  given us the relevant  call recordings during which this was 
discussed. In the first call, Santander  explained it wouldnt be able to consider an application  
to transfer equity whilst Miss W had consent  to let the property but remained living  in it. 
During the second call, which took place later in 2017, Miss W was again applying  to transfer 
the mortgage to her sole name as shed  moved out of the property. During  the affordability 
checks, Santander explained  to Miss W it wouldnt be able to accept her application  and 
lend to her on an interest only basis  as it wasnt satisfied she had a credible repayment 
vehicle in place.  Miss W had explained  shed  use savings  to repay the outstanding  capital  at 
the end of the term but Santander wanted  to know she had sufficient savings in place  
£110,000  at the time of the application.
Unhappy with Santanders decision, Miss W and Mr S came to our service. They said at the 
time they initially applied for the mortgage, Santander was satisfied they met its affordability 
criteria. And they think its placing further conditions on them. Miss Ws said shes been 
meeting the mortgage payments alone  for around ten years so she doesnt think there  are 
any affordability issues. She said she plans to continue  renting her property out for the time 
being  which covers her mortgage repayments  and bills  and once shes  finished studying,  
shell apply for a mortgage on a repayment  basis. Shes also pointed  out that the only tie 
Mr S has to the United  Kingdom is their property, which  he hasnt been paying towards for 
some time. 
Another ombudsman  issued a provisional decision.  Subject to any further submissions, they 
found:
That the application to transfer the mortgage into Miss Ws sole name  comes  within  the 
scope of the transitional arrangements  of the relevant regulations. As the mortgage was 
taken out before  2014 and the borrowing is not increasing, Santander  has the discretion 
not to apply its usual affordability checks if that is in Miss W and Mr Ss best interests.
Mr S hasnt  contributed to the mortgage  for some time and Miss W has been paying  it on 
her own without a problem. They are just asking for the existing arrangement to be 
Ref: DRN92844382formalised and for Mr S to be released from a mortgage  he has no connection to. 
Theyve also told us Mr S has no other connection  to the UK  so by releasing him, it 
allows them  both to move  on with their own lives. 
Its not unreasonable for Santander to assess whether the mortgage would be affordable  
for Miss W on her own. But as things stand  Santander doesnt  have enough  information  
about her financial  circumstances  or future  plans to make  a decision about  the transfer of 
equity application.  So it will need  to get more information from her. But Santander should 
consider the application while having  regard for what is in Miss W and Mr Ss best 
interests and not applying  its usual strict affordability assessment. That means for 
example itll need  to think about  the payment  history  of the account while Miss Ws been 
making repayments by herself  and the reasons she and Mr S want to transfer the 
equity (their personal circumstances).
In view of the stress caused to Miss W and Mr S by not fairly looking at their application  
in the first place,  Santander should waive its usual transfer  of equity fee and pay Miss W 
and Mr S £150.
The transitional arrangements  dont apply  to the fixed sum loan.
It would  be unreasonable and unfair for Santander to withdraw the interest only 
mortgage because  it now considers  that cash savings arent a suitable  repayment 
vehicle. The mortgage offer said that Miss W and Mrs S hadnt given details of they 
intended to repay the mortgage at the end of term. Their  situation  and Santanders 
understanding of it  hasnt changed. 
Santander responded to make a number  of points, including:
It will need an application  from Miss W to understand of the transfer of equity is in her 
best interests.
When she took out the mortgage  Miss W said that she intended  to repay the mortgage  
with a pension  from a now previous employer  and it was for the broker to decide  if that 
was a suitable repayment strategy. But Miss W is no longer employed in the same job.
It raised a number of specific points  it would want to consider  when  assessing  if the 
transfer of equity was in Miss W and Mr Ss best interests.
It wanted to know  what would happen  to the unsecured loan.
It was happy to carry out an application.
Miss W said:
The unsecured  loan isnt separate and only one mortgage payment  is taken  each month. 
She suggested keeping this payment with the mortgage until she can remortgage.  
She was concerned about how Santander would view her income  and expenditure 
bearing in mind her current circumstances.
Mr S said he was happy with what the ombudsman proposed  but he also asked if the 
unsecured loan could also be transferred.
Ref: DRN92844383my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the previous ombudsman.
I dont consider that Santander has treated Miss W and Mr S fairly. It didnt properly consider 
whether a transfer of the mortgage to Miss Ws sole name was in both her and Mr Ss best 
interests in line with the relevant rules.  But because of the way that Santander dealt with 
Miss W, it hadnt  gathered  enough information  to fairly assess whether the transfer of equity 
was in her and Mr Ss best interests. So I consider  it would be fair for Santander  to now 
consider an application from Miss W and Mr S  and to assess it fairly in line with the 
relevant rules.
I note that both sides have gone into some detail about what  information will be required and 
how that will be assessed by Santander. I would remind  Santander that the whole point  of 
the transitional arrangements is that they allow lenders to make changes  to a mortgage  
where the borrowers wouldnt meet  the new more stringent  affordability  and repayment 
vehicle checks in place  since 2014.  So its important that it doesnt just apply a version  of its 
usual checks.  It should  carry out a fair and holistic assessment of Miss W and Mr Ss 
circumstances so it can decide if switching the mortgage to Miss Ws sole name genuinely is 
in their best interests.
Similarly, it follows, that just because the transitional arrangements exist that every 
application caught by those rules  will be successful. So Im unable  to confirm to Miss W that 
her current  circumstances  would mean  that the transfer was in her best interests. It depends 
on all of her and Mr Ss circumstances, including her current  income and expenditure and 
her plans for the future.  And it is for Santander  to carry out its own assessment. Of course, if 
Miss W and Mr S think  that Santander hasnt considered any future application fairly, then 
they can refer that complaint to us.
Miss W and Mr S have been  caused  some unnecessary  trouble  and upset by the way that 
Santander has dealt  with them. I agree with the previous  ombudsman  that Santander  should  
waive the transfer of equity  application fee and pay them £150 to reflect that. I also think  if 
Miss W and Mr S accept my decision then Santander  should write to them within  28 days of 
being told of the acceptance  and set out what information it needs  from Miss W and Mr S 
and anything else they need to do. 
In regard to the unsecured loan, it isnt covered  by the relevant rules.  And it would be 
unusual for this type of loan to be transferred from joint names into one borrowers  name. So 
it wouldnt be fair for me to say that the unsecured loan should be included in the above 
exercise  it will stay in joint names unless  Miss W and Mr S make separate  arrangements 
to refinance that loan.  If the payment for both the mortgage and unsecured loan is taken as 
one as Miss W says, and if the transfer  of equity  application is successful, Santander should 
arrange to collect  the payments for the mortgage and unsecured loan separately.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should:
Ref: DRN92844384Write  to Miss W and Mr S within 28 days of receiving notification that this decision has 
been accepted setting  out what they need to do to progress an application  to remove 
Mr S from the mortgage.
On receipt of the necessary  information  from Miss W and Mr S consider an application 
from them to remove Mr S from the mortgage  applying the transitional arrangements 
(MCOB 11.7).
Waive any fees in relation to the above  application
Pay Miss W and Mr S £150 for any trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9284438