K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance unfairly 
terminated his conditional sale agreement and repossessed his vehicle. He wants  the 
outstanding balance on the agreement  to be waived.
background
Mr T tells us that after he ran into financial difficulties he agreed a temporary payment 
arrangement with CBMF which allowed for reduced monthly  payments.  He said he made the 
first two payments but due to an error  by CBMF  these were initially allocated to the wrong 
account. Mr T states that he thought  the account  was up to date in January 2019. But he 
then found that CBMF  was going  to repossess  the vehicle as the January payment hadnt 
been made. He says the vehicle was repossessed  in February  2019  and that as a result of 
having no vehicle  he lost his employment.
CBMF told us it had agreed a payment arrangement  with Mr T. But he hadnt made the 
required payment  in January 2019. It said it had tried to get in touch with him but had been 
unable to make contact. It said it considered that as the agreement was in arrears and the 
debt escalating it was in the consumers  best interests to terminate the agreement  and 
repossess the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 April 2020. I indicated I was minded to 
uphold the complaint as I thought CBMF had acted prematurely in terminating  the 
agreement when it was only two months  in arrears. Since then both parties have replied. 
Mr T said he didnt  wish to make  any further  comments. CBMF said the default  notice had 
been issued by automated process. As no new information has been provided I see no 
reason to change  my provisional view. This is largely repeated in my final decision  which  is 
set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution  
Rules (DISP).
DISP 3.6.4R says I need to take into account  relevant: 
 law and regulations;
 regulators  rules  guidance and standards; 
 codes  of practice; 
and  (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time.
Im sorry  that Mr T has had financial difficulties. And I understand that this can be a stressful  
and upsetting experience.
Ref: DRN97048062Mr T took out the conditional sale agreement in October 2017  in order  to purchase the 
vehicle over a 48 month period. And the account  statement shows that monthly payments 
were maintained up until September 2018  when a direct debit failed. This payment was 
subsequently paid by debit card.
Where a business becomes aware that a customer is facing financial difficulties wed expect 
it to act fairly. And to show forbearance  and try to assist a customer  to see if its possible to 
work through  the problems affecting  the repayment  of a loan. How a business goes about 
this will vary from case to case  and is dependent upon the circumstances of the individual  
customer.
A payment arrangement  was agreed  between CBMF and Mr T on 5 November 2018. At the 
time of the arrangement the account wasnt actually in arrears. But as Mr T anticipated a 
change to his finances he sensibly notified CBMF of the circumstances. It was agreed for 
him to make  payments of just half the contracted monthly payments for a period of four 
months up to February 2019. And then a lump sum payment was due in March to repay the 
remaining arrears. This indicates that both parties viewed the payment arrangement  as a 
temporary measure. CBMF acted fairly in agreeing to this arrangement in order  to assist 
Mr T.
On 6 December  2018 CBMF  sent Mr T a notice of default. Im not sure why this was done as 
the payment arrangement was by now in place. Id have expected it to send a notice of sums 
in arrears. A payment arrangement is not the same as a default. And if the arrangement  is 
being maintained it wouldnt usually lead to a notice of default being issued.
It also appears that the sum stated  on the default notice  wasnt correct.  The figure given is 
£147.83. The arrears  first arose on 26 November 2018 which was the date the first reduced  
monthly instalment  was due. But it seems that when Mr T made the reduced  payment - in 
line with the arrangement - it was allocated to the wrong account. So the arrears  should only 
have been recorded as £73.92. When he made the December 2018 reduced payment this 
was also allocated to the wrong account.  The errors were corrected on 8 January 2019.
The net effect at this time was that Mr T had kept to the terms of the payment arrangement 
and was a total of one monthly  payment in arrears.  The next payment under  the 
arrangement was due on 26 January 2019. And when this payment wasnt  made  CBMF 
attempted to get in touch  with Mr T. But the notes  Ive seen - which  CBMF recorded at the 
time - show that attempts  at contact werent successful. So it decided to terminate the 
agreement and repossess the vehicle.
When Mr T found  out about this - when he received a notice of the intended repossession  - 
he made contact with CBMF.  But it refused to alter its decision.
Ive considered the Information Commissioners Office Guidance (ICO) which  relates to the 
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit  Reference 
Agencies. It contains  the following (NB underscoring  is mine):-
If you fall into arrears  on your account, or you do not keep to the revised  terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship  has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the 
time you are 6 months  in arrears.
Ref: DRN97048063Its not in dispute  that the arrears figure  at the time CBMF decided to terminate the 
agreement and repossess the vehicle amounted to two monthly payments. And in terms of 
the payment arrangement Mr T had missed only one instalment.  It seems that he may have 
mistakenly thought  the January credit (in which the earlier  errors  were corrected) meant  he 
didnt have to make a further payment during that month.
I think CBMF was premature in taking steps to repossess the vehicle. It appears to have 
fallen outside  the ICO guidance  in issuing a notice  of default. And whilst its possible for a 
business to default an account  before there  are three  months arrears Id normally  only 
expect this to occur  where it was clear there was no prospect of the situation improving or 
thered been a refusal to pay. I cant see that CBMF made sufficient enquiries to explore if 
either of these factors applied here.
As the vehicles been sold its not feasible  to return Mr T to the position hed have been in 
immediately prior to its repossession. That was approximately £295  in arrears but with 
access to a vehicle.  When the vehicle was sold it resulted in a shortfall on the agreement 
amounting to £672.72.
Although Mr T has indicated the loss of the vehicle contributed to his becoming  unemployed 
theres insufficient information to confirm this. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to 
say CBMF  was responsible for this.
I think the fairest manner  of settling this complaint is for CBMF  to write off the shortfall of 
£672.62 and remove the default from Mr Ts credit file. In reaching this view Ive taken into 
account the distress  and inconvenience which was caused to Mr T. So I shant be making a 
separate award in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint.
I now require Close Brothers  Limited  trading as Close  Brothers Motor Finance to take the 
following action:
1.Waive the outstanding  balance  on the account of £672.62;
2.Arrange to have  the record of default removed from Mr Ts credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9704806