K821x#15complaint
Mrs O complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly rejected a claim she made for 
unpaid rent under a landlords  rent guarantee policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 September 2019 setting out my initial  thoughts about 
Mrs Os complaint. I set out the background as follows:
Mrs O rented a property to a tenant. She had taken out insurance policies to cover certain 
circumstances including  rent arrears.  
There came  a point where the tenant failed  to pay the rent (January 2018) and in March 
2018 Mrs O contacted Great Lakes agent and was advised to issue an eviction notice, 
which she did through the letting agent (in March 2018). The eviction date was set as 15 
May 2018. She was also asked to provide several documents.  Around 31 May 2018  the 
tenant handed the keys back  to the letting agent and Mrs O enquired as to how she could 
recover the unpaid  rent.
Great Lakes declined the claim under section 1 of the policy because the eviction matter had 
resolved, and Mrs O wasnt pursuing  proceedings. In addition, Great Lakes said first 
notification from Mrs O came on 12 May 2018 when  the rent arrears were  already more than 
£5,000 as no payments had in fact been  made since January 2018. 
Mrs O was very unhappy as Great Lakes hadnt stipulated any time limit for documents  to be 
sent. And she says the policy doesnt require  an eviction claim to be accepted before 
recovering unpaid rent and feels the policy was mis-sold (a separate complaint was set up 
for the alleged mis-sale).
One of our investigators  investigated the complaint  and explained that the policy conditions 
werent met for a claim to be considered. In summary, the investigator said for Mrs O to 
recover under the rent guarantee policy she also had to have a claim under section 1  
eviction. And as there wasnt an eviction claim,  as the tenant had moved out, she wasnt 
eligible to claim for rent arrears. 
The investigator also explained that she didnt  think  Great Lakes agent had delayed  the 
claim as it was waiting for documents from Mrs O. And although  Mrs O had contacted  the 
agent while the tenant was still living at her property, the claim hadnt been  reported  at this 
point and advice  was from a solicitor that the agent  couldnt fairly be held responsible. The 
investigator gave Mrs O details of the Legal Ombudsman should  she wish to complain  about  
the solicitor.
my provisional findings
I explained why I thought  Mrs Os claim should  succeed as follows:
The crux of this complaint is the decision to refuse  Mrs Os claim. Issues about the sale have 
been set up under another  complaint  reference against the intermediary responsible for 
selling the policy.
Ref: DRN95486622The rent guarantee policy covers Mrs B for certain  events where there appears to be a 51% 
chance of success , including  rent arrears, and states the following:
Up to £2,000 per month for a maximum of 12 months  (as detailed on Your Policy  
Schedule) for Rent Arrears owed by the Tenant under the Tenancy  Agreement during the 
Period of Insurance  where an Insured Event under Section 1 occurs  and where  
appropriate You are pursuing proceedings under this Policy  (my underlining).  
There are other conditions to a successful claim but whats clear from the italicised wording 
above is that cover is given where;
i. there is an insured  event under  section  (Eviction) and 
ii. where appropriate, Mrs B is pursuing  proceedings  under the policy.  
Great Lakes approach in Mrs Os case has been  to say that she wasnt  pursuing 
proceedings and so her claim for rent arrears  failed. However, point ii above isnt a 
mandatory element  in my view because of the words  preceding   where appropriate. Their 
effect, in my view, is that there may be occasions  where pursuing  proceedings is not 
appropriate. And so, the policy would potentially, by its wording, cover a claim where  
proceedings arent being pursued under  the policy. If that isnt the case it certainly is a 
legitimate literal interpretation, and it doesnt,  in my view, lead to an absurdity. I have in mind 
the circumstances in this case where  the tenant  has left after a notice of eviction and given 
up possession. Legal proceedings for eviction are no longer relevant.
Theres a general  condition that Mrs B must act promptly to gain vacant possession  of the 
property and recover rent arrears. And all potential claims  must  initially be reported within  30 
days to the legal helpline. 
It seems  to be the case that Mrs O didnt  contact the helpline  until early  March, where rent 
hadnt been paid since 1 February. But thereafter she arranged  for a notice of eviction  to 
gain possession and this had the desired  effect of giving Mrs O vacant possession. But by 
this point rent arrears  were substantial. 
The first issue to address  is whether the policy covers Mrs O where  proceedings werent 
being pursued. Im satisfied that its not a condition precedent to a successful that there  must 
be continuing proceedings  pursuant  to section1  (Eviction). I say this because  the wording  
caveats this with where  appropriate. As the correct form of notice had been issued and the 
tenant moved out around two weeks after the expiration of the notice, further proceedings 
were not required.  In other words,  because the notice had the desired effect proceedings 
wouldnt have been appropriate. So, Im satisfied  the claim can fairly  be looked at under the 
remaining policy terms.
Great Lakes has said that Mrs O didnt  report the matter within 30 days  to the helpline. The 
tenant was required  to pay rent on the 1st of each  month. Payment for January was made on 
the 11th so while late there  was nothing to report within 30 days. The next default  didnt arise 
until 1 February  and as that remained unpaid, 30 days  would have meant Mrs O contacting 
the helpline  by around 2 March. Mrs O says she called the helpline and thats why the notice 
of eviction was issued on 13 March. So, if Mrs O didnt call precisely within  30 days  it was 
very shortly after and at the latest 13 March.  
Industry rules (Insurance: Conduct of Business (ICOBS)) state that an insurer must not 
unreasonably reject a claim. And, rejection  of a consumer policyholders claim is 
Ref: DRN95486623unreasonable (except where evidence of fraud) if it is for breach of a condition  unless  the 
circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. 
Im mindful that this part of ICOBS covers  a consumer policyholder whereas Mrs O acts as a 
non-consumer in so far as the policy protects her business / commercial  interest  with 
property rental. The Insurance  Act 2015 applies to non-consumer insurance contracts and I 
think section 11 is of particular relevance.  
In summary,  there are limits placed  on an insurer where the insured has breached a term of 
a policy  and a loss has occurred. Here the loss is the rent and that had already materialised 
within the 30 day notification period.  So the fact that Mrs O may have contacted  the helpline  
around 10 days late has, at most, only impacted the potential overall  loss by those 10 days.  
If Mrs O had reported the matter to the helpline on 2 March  2018 the eviction notice  might  
have been issued earlier than it was, and the expiration of the statutory notice could  have 
been around 3 May 2018. But in that time rent arrears had started to accrue and rent would 
have remained unpaid  as in fact it did. The tenant might have moved out around  two weeks  
earlier than they eventually did and so there would be less liability for Great  Lakes. 
Having thought about this aspect very carefully Im not satisfied that Mrs Os breach of the 
30 day notification term tended to reduce the risk of the loss shes claimed. That loss, being 
the rent arrears, had materialised before the expiration of the 30 day notice period. 
Correspondence was sent to the tenant about this and a notice of eviction was served. The 
circumstances of the claim for rent arrears arose before the end of the notification period. I 
accept that the additional  10 days may have  impacted the final amount of loss. 
I have to make a determination  which  in my opinion is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Os complaint. Mrs O told us that the letting agent recovered the rent 
deposit of £2,076. 
So, Im going  to require Great Lakes to pay rent arrears for the full months of February, 
March and April together  with twenty one thirtieths  (21/30) for May (this is what is set out in 
the policy subject  to deduction  of the excess). At a monthly rent of £1,500 the total of arrears 
Great Lakes should  pay is; 
£1,500 x 3 months = £4,500 
plus 21/30 of £1,500  = £1,050
total = £5,550
less rent deposit  £2,076 = £3,474
And because Great  Lakes has not paid this amount Im satisfied it is fair that it also adds 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per year to reflect the fact that rent arrears  werent  paid 
under the insurance policy. Great Lakes has not given consideration to the words  where 
appropriate and so made an unfair  decision to reject  the claim. The purpose of rent 
guarantee is so that the policyholders loss is mitigated at a time where they could be 
financially vulnerable  if, for example, there are financial commitments on the rented property 
such as a mortgage payment. In all the circumstances I think it is fair that interest is added 
from 22 May 2018 to the date Great Lakes sends payment to Mrs O. 
Ref: DRN95486624replies to my provisional  decision
Mrs O told us she accepted my provisional  decision. Great Lakes  said it would reimburse 
Mrs O but disagreed with my calculation. It referred to the policy definition of rent arrears,  
which included the fact that it was less the deposit.  In this case  it meant  a deduction of 
£2,076.
We referred Great Lakes  to the wording of the provisional decision and the calculation,  
which showed I had already factored this amount  in deciding what amount should be paid to 
Mrs O. Ive not seen any further reply  from Great Lakes.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain satisfied that the outcome as set out in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Os complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mrs O £3,474 (less the 
policy excess)  together with simple interest1 at 8% per year from 22 May 2018 to the date 
payment is issued.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Great lakes Insurance SE to take off tax from this interest. Great lakes 
Insurance SE must give Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN9548662