K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) turned down his 
cancellation claim under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr Ss partner  booked their family holiday in December 2017, for travel  on 21 February  
2018. 
Mr Ss mother-in-law, Mrs C, had been  diagnosed with Alzheimers disease in 2014.  On 
9 February 2018  Mrs Cs doctor gave her antibiotics for a chest  infection.
Mr S bought the travel insurance  in the morning of 16 February  2018.  That same day - but in 
the afternoon   Mrs Cs doctor told her husband  that her condition had sudden deteriorated, 
and was now terminal. Mrs C was unable  to swallow.  Mr S and his family thought theyd 
have to cancel  the holiday.
But Mr S says that by 19 February 2018  Mrs C had recovered significantly, could eat and 
drink and was expected  to live. So they re-booked  their flights. But Mrs C then deteriorated 
so they confirmed the cancellation of their holiday  to their travel company. Very sadly,  Mrs C 
died in March  2018. 
In April 2018 Mr S made a claim for his holiday cancellation costs (his partner  and children 
were separately insured). ERV turned down Mr Ss claim. It said Mrs Cs illness  was a 
pre-existing one under  the policys terms. This meant Mr Ss claim wasnt covered. Mr S 
didnt agree. He said Mrs Cs doctor had confirmed her condition  had been stable both at the 
time his partner booked  their holiday and at the time he took out the insurance. Hed not 
been asked any questions about  her health when he took out the policy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint and said ERV should consider the claim. ERV didnt 
agree. It didnt think the claim should  be considered, given  Mrs Cs pre-existing medical 
history, the date Mr S had bought the policy  and the fact the trip had been booked in 
December 2017.  Its policy was clear that claims related to or arising  from a pre-existing 
medical condition  of a non-travelling relative  isnt covered, and Mr Ss claim falls outside of 
the cover  held. 
The complaint came to me for review.
developments
We asked for Mr Ss comments  on the points ERV had raised.  Mr S explained that his 
partner and children  had bought their insurance  at the time shed arranged the holiday. Hed 
forgotten to arrange his insurance,  but did this on 16 February. He explained he has ongoing 
health issues (which  hed told ERV about). So he is usually asked by travel  insurers  for a 
particular blood  count reading  and about  his latest  blood pressure reading. His partner and 
children have no health issues so its more straightforward for them to be on a single policy.
ERV said it wasnt sure of the relevance of Mr Ss statements with regard to the assessment 
of the claim and its decision to turn it down, as this had no bearing on its ability  to consider 
the claim.
Ref: DRN90220072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
At the time Mr S bought the ERV policy he knew Mrs C had been diagnosed with 
Alzheimers Disease,  that she lived in a care home and that she had a chest  infection.  Her 
doctor said the cancellation was due to deterioration of her Alzheimers Disease/a chest 
infection. 
The ERV policy doesnt cover any cancellation  claim arising directly or indirectly  from any 
pre-existing medical condition known to the policyholders before the policy  started affecting 
any close relative whether  insured under the policy  or not.
On the strict  policy terms, I think ERV was entitled to turn down Mr Ss claim. The 
cancellation was due to a deterioration in Mrs Cs Alzheimers disease  and a chest infection, 
both of which Mr S knew she had before hed taken out the insurance policy. 
But I can step outside the strict policy terms where I consider it is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances to do so. And in this case I think it is fair to do so, and for ERV to pay 
Mr Ss claim.
One of the issues  that I consider in deciding whether its fair for an insurer  to pay a claim, 
even if its not strictly  covered, is whether a consumer could reasonably  have anticipated that 
they might  have to make  a claim under the policy.
In this case, Mr S took out the policy on the same day that Mrs Cs illness became terminal.  
So Ive considered very carefully whether its fair to require ERV to pay the claim. 
Mr S has explained why hed not bought  the policy at the same time as his partner and 
children. I see theyd already bought their insurance at the time of booking  the holiday, and 
I think its likely that but for Mr Ss health  conditions he would have done that as well. But 
hes explained that in his experience hes needed  up to date medical information to answer 
travel insurers questions. 
Its significant that Mrs Cs doctor  has confirmed  on the medical certificate  that at the time 
Mr S took out the policy (the morning) her condition had been  stable. The doctor has clearly  
stated that cancellation could have  been  anticipated only in the afternoon  of 16 February 
2018. I think this is compelling  evidence. If the doctor thought her condition  was stable, then 
I dont think there was any reason for Mr S to anticipate making a claim.  
Also, I see that Mrs Cs doctor said that Mrs C had had previous chest infections  at least  
one a year in the previous  two years. So this wasnt an unusual situation, and shed made a 
recovery on those two previous occasions.  So I dont think  its likely, on balance,  that Mr S 
could have reasonably anticipated that he might need to make  a claim under the policy  at 
the time he took it out, despite the close timing with Mrs Cs illness  becoming  terminal.
I think its also significant that Mr S and family  rebooked their cancelled flights, due to 
Mrs Cs temporary  recovery, when she was able to eat and drink. I cant  see theyd have 
done this if Mr S had arranged insurance simply to be able to make a cancellation claim. 
Ref: DRN90220073Having considered all the circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for ERV 
to pay Mr Ss claim, which  I accept he couldnt have anticipated he might  have  to make.  
Mrs C had been stable  and her doctor has confirmed in writing  that Mr S couldnt  have  
known about it becoming terminal at the time hed bought the policy.  
The payment of the claim is subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess, and ERV 
must pay 8% interest as set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days of the date we send  it Mr Ss acceptance of this final decision  I order  
Europaische Reiseversicherung AG to pay his cancellation claim, subject to the policy limit 
and any applicable excess. It must add interest* to the claim payment at the simple annual  
rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Europaische Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9022007