K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. dealt  with his claim against his annual,  worldwide  travel  insurance policy        
after he was advised  not to travel. 
background
In early 2018, Mr W booked a trip with his partner, which  cost over £8,000. The departure  
date was 6 November 2018. In July 2018, Mr W bought his annual, worldwide policy. 
On 2 November  2018, the doctor  treating Mr W advised him not to travel, as he needed  
urgent treatment for cancer. 
Mr W made a claim against his policy. Mapfre calculated the sum due to Mr W under the 
policy and paid him up to the policy limit of £2,000, minus the excess  due under the policy.
Mr W says that Mapfre only paid him a fraction  of the cost of the trip under the cancellation 
section of the policy. He says that this was not a cancellation but his doctors  advice that he 
could not travel, which wasnt due to a minor illness or any fault of his own. Mr W says that 
he needed to remain in the UK for urgent treatment.
Mr W wants Mapfre to pay him for the full cost of the trip. He says that this was a once in a 
lifetime trip and hell never be able to do it if he cant get back the money he paid. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Mapfre had 
treated Mr W unfairly. Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Mapfre  should 
compensate him in full in his exceptional circumstances, as his illness  was no fault of his 
own. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont  doubt was a very worrying time into a short  
narrative. That reflects our service  that, wherever possible, aims to be informal.  But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence  of what happened. 
This decision deals  with Mr Ws claim  as he is the sole policy  holder. I understand that his 
partners claim  against  her own policy has been  dealt with separately. 
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr W has very strong  feelings  about this matter.  A 
significant sum of money is at stake  here.  However, I trust that he will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus  on what I consider the central issue,  that is, whether Mapfre 
treated him in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the policy  and fairly in dealing 
with his claim.     
Ref: DRN94237992the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy, which  say:
J  Cancelling and cutting short your  holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel  or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below we will 
pay up to the amount  shown in the table of benefits  on pages 5 and 6 for:
Travel and accommodation expenses that you have  paid or have agreed to pay under a 
contract and which you cannot get back [] if it is necessary and you cannot avoid 
cancelling [] your trip; []
The following  are reasons we will accept for you cancelling [] your trip:
1.You [] become seriously ill []
Special conditions which apply to section J
[]
2.We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out insurance  
cover with InsureandGo. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not 
insured, we only pay your proportion  of costs not theirs, regardless of who has paid 
for the booking  
The table of benefits provides that the maximum amount payable for cancelling a holiday is 
£2,000, less the excess of £80. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint because  I dont think  that Mapfre  treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:
I note that Mr W says that this wasnt simply a matter of him cancelling his holiday 
but the circumstances that arose  here fall under the cancellation section of his policy 
with Mapfre. The fact that Mr Ws ill health  wasnt his fault doesnt alter that. So, 
Mapfre dealt with Mr Ws claim under the relevant section of his policy.
The maximum amount insured for cancellation under Mr Ws policy was £2,000, less 
the excess of £80 due under the policy. That means thats the maximum Mapfre  will 
pay on cancellation. It isnt obliged to pay Mr W more than that. Thats  the 
contractual limit of its liability to Mr W. It was open to Mr W to look for insurance that 
provided a higher  maximum  sum insured.
The policy is in Mr Ws sole name  and provides  that it will only pay for his proportion  
of costs. That doesnt alter the outcome here,  as Mr Ws proportion of the costs  of 
the trip is more  than the maximum amount insured in any event. 
Ref: DRN94237993I appreciate that it was a worrying series of events  which  led to Mr Ws claim and that 
it wasnt something he could control but I think that Mapfre  paid what  it was obliged  
to pay and I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to direct  it to pay any more. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9423799