K820x#14complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the way that her claim under the block  social housing policy for the 
building her flat is situated  in, has been  handled  by Zurich Insurance  PLC.
background
In January 2019 Miss D reported a claim to Zurich, as leaseholder under a block  policy in the 
name of the Housing Association (HA). There are three elements  to her claim  the damage 
to a window, possible storm  or other damage to the roof and internal damage  caused by the 
water coming in from the roof. Zurich arranged a site inspection.  
Zurichs view was that the window was likely affected by rot - this was either age related or 
due to faulty or defective design.  So its view was that the damage to the window  was likely 
excluded under the policy. However  it noted  that a report would be carried  out on the window 
through the HA and it said that it would consider any further evidence.
As regards  the roof, it was agreed that an inspection would be carried out through  the HA. A 
preliminary report was carried out but a scaffolding tower would be required to establish 
what damage there was. Zurich was prepared to review that matter  after receipt of the new 
report. 
Zurich confirmed it would cover the internal  damage  but said the external damage to the roof 
had to be dealt  with first.
Miss D complained of Zurichs delay in dealing with her claim  she thought in particular that 
it should have  arranged and paid for the necessary reports on the damage.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said he thought that Zurich had acted fairly. He 
observed that Miss D had had difficulty in trying to get the HA to act but explained that we 
didnt have jurisdiction  over it. He suggested she approach the housing ombudsman  about it.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision concerns  the three  matters Miss D made her complaint about to this service, 
as Ive set out above. Im aware  that she has mentioned complaints about a previous claim 
dealt with by Zurich but those matters will be considered separately as appropriate.
In respect of the three  issues  Miss D made  claims to Zurich  about I should explain that, 
although she benefits under the policy, the owner  of the block, the HA, is the primary 
policyholder. It is for the policyholder to show to the insurer  that there is, on the face of it, a 
claim that is covered  under the policy.
With regard to the damage to the window,  the policy has all risks cover which  means that 
any damage not otherwise excluded by the policy is covered. But there are a number of 
exclusions to this cover, notably rot not due to a cause otherwise excluded,  a latent defect, 
gradual deterioration, its own faulty  or defective  design or materials and faulty  or defective  
workmanship. Zurich noted  that the frame had rotted, and this was likely to be due to age or 
Ref: DRN91014152faulty or defective  design. I think that it was reasonable of Zurich  from its own inspection  to 
say on the face of it that the claim wasnt covered.
I understand that there have been  subsequent inspections of the window but no evidence  
has been put forward to suggest  that Zurichs assessment of the damage was wrong. Thats 
not to say that the HA isnt liable to repair the window but that is a matter Miss D should take 
up with it. As Miss D is aware any default  on the part of the HA doesnt  come within our 
jurisdiction, although  she could refer it to the housing ombudsman.
With regard to the roof survey, I understand Miss D believes its Zurichs responsibility to 
arrange this. But as its the primary responsibility  of the HA its for that body to show  that 
there is damage. Zurich could then decide  whether the damage  was covered, or excluded.  I 
understand that a scaffolding tower would  be required. And Ive seen  no evidence that, apart 
from a preliminary inspection in March 2019,  any further report has been provided. Miss D 
refers to a provision in the policy whereby Zurich would pay up to £5,000 for an independent  
survey. I believe she is referring to trace and access cover which only applies to escape of 
water (from any tank, apparatus or pipe) or leakage of oil.
My view is that its for the HA to provide the necessary report. Again if Miss D has problems 
with this being provided, I presume she has made  formal complaints to the HA, but again  we 
have no power to force it to act.
With regard to the internal damage, Zurich has agreed to cover this, but wants to wait until 
the roof has been dealt with. This makes sense   it couldnt carry out the redecoration until 
the wall has been  dried out.
I do understand Miss Ds complaints and her frustration at having to deal with the HA before 
Zurich can, if appropriate  take any action. Or even  if the damage  was uninsured there  would 
still probably be a liability  for the HA to take action.  But from the evidence I've seen I believe 
that Zurich has acted reasonably.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9101415