K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs B had a meeting  in a Halifax branch with one of its advisors. They took 
out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage protection policy (TMPP)  to 
protect their mortgage repayments. The policy covered them  in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree. In summary,  Mr and Mrs B told us they didnt  ask for PPI and they wouldve never 
wanted it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs B can remember about the sale 
after all this time. Where theres  only limited  information and disagreement about what  
happened I have  to look at all the available  information and decide what  I think  is most likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used. And we already  know  
from looking at other  cases what the process  was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no reason to 
think that Halifax wouldnt have followed  its normal  sales process here. So I think  its likely 
that PPI was discussed and recommended for Mr and Mrs B.
And Ive seen a copy of part of the mortgage paperwork Mr and Mrs B completed. On their 
mortgage application it says: We recommend  that you consider our TMPP which  can cover 
any planholder in the event of accident, sickness, involuntary unemployment, death and a 
named critical illness  
So I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  aware  at the time that it was up to them  to say 
whether or not they wanted to have this insurance cover.
Mr and Mrs B have  signed next to where  it says:Yes. We/I would like to take advantage of 
the TMPP
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Bs home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs B decided they wanted to have some of the 
benefits the policy could offer. And the accident,  sickness and unemployment cover was 
added to their mortgage at their request when they chose to buy it.
Ref: DRN98538382Mr and Mrs B say PPI wasnt recommended to them. But I think its fair to look at this 
complaint on the basis that Halifax recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs B. Thats  because  if a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover  it 
recommends is suitable. So looking at the complaint this way gives  Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint the best chance of success.
It doesnt look like PPI was an unsuitable recommendation based on what Ive seen  of 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs B took out the mortgage in joint names  when they were both in paid work and 
eligible for the policy. So, I think it was appropriate  for the policy  to be taken out in both their 
names and the equal benefit split between them seems  reasonable in the circumstances.  
The policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months per claim if either of them was unable  to 
work because of accident or sickness. This gave Mr and Mrs B cover  for their mortgage 
monthly repayments for a lot longer than if theyd  just been relying on their sick pay. PPI 
couldve also paid out for up to 24 months  if either of them  became unexpectedly 
unemployed. And repeat claims  were possible giving Mr and Mrs B long term cover  for their 
mortgage.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs B wouldve  always had any other  means they could rely on if 
theyd needed  to make a claim. And PPI couldve covered their mortgage  for significantly 
longer than their other means  wouldve  lasted  if theyd  had to use these to make their 
monthly repayments.  
So I think the PPI was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs B werent affected  by any of the main conditions limiting the policys  benefits. So 
I think it unlikely that better information about  the policys  exclusions and limitations  wouldve 
affected their decision to take out the cover.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the policy and appear to have wanted 
this type of cover. Ive seen nothing  to suggest  it was unaffordable for them. Taking  into 
account the cost and the monthly  benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made  
I think the policy couldve provided Mr and Mrs B with a worthwhile benefit.  
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr and Mrs B wouldve been put off taking out PPI if Halifax 
had given them better information.  So, even  if there  were failings in the way Halifax  sold 
them PPI, I dont find theyve lost out as a result of anything that Halifax mightve done 
wrong.
Ref: DRN98538383my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9853838