K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (when it was trading  as Britannia 
Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr M and Miss M took out in 2011 alongside their 
mortgage. The policy covered Mr M for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  
The Co-operative Bank merged with Britannia Building Society and it is dealing with this 
complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to Co-op bank in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold Mr M and Miss Ms complaint. 
Mr M and Miss M disagreed. Their main complaint is that Co-op bank led them to believe 
that the PPI was compulsory  they told us they wouldnt have taken it out otherwise as 
Mr M had sick pay and other means to rely on. And Mr M also told us that he wouldve been  
able to return to his previous employment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M and Miss Ms complaint. 
I think Co-op bank made Mr M and Miss M aware  that the PPI was optional and they chose 
to have it alongside their mortgage. I say this because they were  offered the option to have 
PPI when they filled in their mortgage  application.  At that stage, Mr M and Miss M indicated 
that PPI was not required. So I think they were  aware then that it was up to them  to say if 
they wanted to take out PPI  it wasnt a compulsory part of their mortgage application. Its 
completely understandable that they mightve forgotten  this after so long.
A couple of weeks after filling in their mortgage  application, Mr M completed a separate PPI 
application to have the cover. He selected the amount of cover required  for his mortgage 
monthly repayments. Mr M and Miss M also took advantage of the option  to buy additional  
cover. So I think its likely that Mr M and Miss M were persuaded by the benefits PPI offered  
and they decided they wanted this protection for Mr M. On balance, I find that 
Mr M and Miss M decided  to add PPI to their mortgage account knowing it was up to them to 
choose this cover if they wanted to have  it.
Co-op bank says it recommended the policy. If a business makes  a recommendation about 
PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important policy information in a clear  way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. I think PPI was suitable  
looking at Mr M and Miss Ms circumstances when  they signed up to their mortgage . 
Ref: DRN91336552Mr M told us that he was entitled to 3-6 months  sick pay and he also had 3-6 months worth 
of other  means they couldve relied  on. But this doesnt mean that PPI was unsuitable for 
Mr M and Miss M. The policy couldve paid out in the event of a successful disability claim 
for significantly longer  than Mr M couldve relied on getting sick pay through  work - up to 
12 months per claim. And the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay from 
work. So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if 
Mr M mightve had extra costs as a result of being  off work as a result of illness  or disability. 
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. Ive taken into account  that Mr M feels he wouldve been able to go back to 
his old job. But I cant assume that his old employer  couldve  guaranteed it would hold Mr 
Ms previous  job open for him indefinitely. And if Mr M was prevented from working  as a 
result of being too unwell  to go back to work or he became disabled  from working  this 
wouldnt have been an option for him. 
So I think the policy couldve  provided  useful benefits to Mr M and Miss M.   
Mr M was eligible for the policy.  Its possible some  of the information Co-op bank gave 
Mr M and Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  The policy didnt cover 
some things. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mr M. So, I dont think more  
information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve  made  any difference to 
Mr M and Miss Ms decision to take out PPI.
Its possible that Mr M and Miss M didnt know exactly  how much they would pay for the 
policy when they agreed to take it out. But Co-op  bank wrote  to Mr M when the cover hed 
applied for was set up and told him what the monthly premiums  would be. The letter  included  
information about cancelling the policy if Mr M and Miss M no longer wanted it. So it seems 
they were happy  to pay for the cover selected.  And, as this included  paying for extra benefit, 
it doesnt look like the cost of the monthly premiums  was a problem for Mr M and Miss M. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable for them.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything Mr M and Miss M said in 
response to the adjudicators assessment, but this doesnt change  my view overall.  
Even if there  were  failings  in the way Co-op bank  sold this policy  to Mr M and Miss M, I dont 
think its likely that better  information  wouldve put them off buying it. This means that they 
havent lost out as a result  of anything  that Co-op  bank  mightve  done  wrong.  So Co-op  bank 
doesnt need to do anything to put matters right. 
my decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91336553
Ref: DRN9133655