K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the length  of time it took Admiral Insurance  Company Limited 
(Admiral) to complete repairs to his property following a claim. He doesnt think  the 
compensation offered reflects the inconvenience  hes suffered.
background
On 3 November  2017, Mr R contacted Admiral to make a claim for damage caused to his 
property as a result  of a burst  water pipe. The leak caused damage to his bathroom, landing, 
kitchen and dining room.  On the same  day, Admiral  instructed its loss adjuster who visited  
Mr Rs property four days later. 
Shortly after equipment  was installed to start drying  the property, and this continued until       
the end of November 2017. Mr R was on holiday for approximately  two and half weeks 
during this time.
Mr R and his wife moved in with their daughter in early December 2017  as they couldnt live 
in their house while the repairs were  being  carried out. 
After the affected  areas were stripped out in December 2017,  it was apparent that some  
parts were  still wet and so in mid-January the drying equipment was reinstalled. It was later 
removed on 23 January 2018.  
The repairs  were arranged on 20 February  2018 and started  a week  later. The repair works 
were completed on 5 March 2018. 
Admiral has accepted the claim was not dealt  with proactively. It added that the supplier had 
been slow to respond and this meant Mr R had to chase things in order to progress the 
claim. It apologised for the problems Mr R had experienced and offered £150  compensation. 
Admiral also paid £20 disturbance allowance a day for the period  he and his wife were 
unable to live in the property.
Our investigator thought £150  was a fair amount  of compensation.  He said that while there  
were some delays, these werent significant,  and that the reason the claim took some  time to 
conclude was because  significant drying was required. He explained this is expected with 
claims of this nature.  He added that as it was around Christmas,  this likely contributed to 
how speedily  things moved forwards. And he didnt think  it was fair to expect the business to 
know exactly how long it would take to repair Mr Rs property. 
He acknowledged  that Mr R had to chase  Admiral for updates  and that it couldve provided a 
better level of service but he felt the compensation  fairly reflected  the inconvenience  Mr R 
had experienced.  He added that the £20 per day disturbance  allowance  is in line with what  
wed expect the business to pay in the circumstances.  
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view. Hes most concerned  with how the claim was 
handled from January  2018 to March 2018. He feels Admiral caused  six to eight weeks  of 
delays. Hes explained he and his wife are pensioners and that they found  living  in cramped 
conditions, longer than necessary difficult. 
Because Mr R disagreed,  the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN91540642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here. The first is whether Admiral caused any avoidable delays which  
adversely affected  how long it took for the repairs to be completed. The second is whether 
the compensation offered  by Admiral is fair. 
delays
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so there 
isnt a defined  period  of time.  But where theres  a lot of damage and remedial works, things 
will obviously take longer.
I first need to consider how long the repairs shouldve  taken  and compare that to how long 
they actually took.  After  registering the claim, the loss adjuster visited  Mr Rs property four 
days later,  and drying equipment was installed two days  after that. I think this is a 
reasonable timeframe  and so Im satisfied the loss adjuster  acted promptly. 
As Mr Rs claim is about damage  caused  by the escape of water, its not easy  to say with 
certainty how long it shouldve taken to complete the repairs. Thats because the affected 
areas needed to be dried first. And as is the case with Mr Rs claim, further damage came  to 
light later on which required further  drying   and this extended how the long the repairs took. 
As a result, the drying wasnt completed  until 23 January  2018.
Ive looked at the reports provided by Admirals  agents and from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
action was being taken in respect of Mr Rs property up until the drying was completed. After 
this however, repair work didnt start until 26 February 2018, almost  a month later.  The call 
notes show that in mid-February Mr R called to complain about the time it was taking.  It was 
at this point Admiral said he needed to make a decision on the materials he wanted to use 
before it could book  contractors for the repairs. But Mr R said hed already provided this 
information. So from what Ive seen there  were  a few weeks where Admiral and its agents 
didnt progress things  as promptly as it should have.
compensation
Next, I need to consider whether the £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. Mr R has 
said Admiral should  pay more compensation because it wouldve had to pay a lot more if 
hed chosen to move into alternative accommodation. 
Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance isnt actually compensation for 
disturbance or inconvenience. Instead  its for the additional financial costs a consumer has 
had to make  as a result  of not being able to inhabit  their home. Compensation however, is 
given to reflect non-financial loss, such as inconvenience or disruption that Admiral caused 
unnecessarily. So it doesnt follow that because Mr R didnt choose to stay in alternative 
accommodation Admiral  should increase its offer of compensation   compensation is a 
separate issue. 
Mr R was given the option of staying  in alternative accommodation  but he chose to stay with 
his daughter. I appreciate that with hindsight Mr R feels this wasnt the right choice for him 
Ref: DRN91540643and his wife but that isnt grounds  for asking Admiral  to pay more compensation. Ultimately,  
it was his decision to move in with his daughter.
In deciding whether  £150  compensation is fair, Ive thought about  the impact  the situation  
had on Mr R and his wife. Im aware theyre both pensioners.  And Mr R has said the living 
conditions were cramped  at his daughters house. I dont doubt that not being able to live in 
their home was a difficult time for them. Mr R has said he thought he and his wife were only 
going to be out of their house for a couple  of weeks. Although I empathise with Mr Rs 
situation, I dont  think it was realistic to expect the repairs to be completed in a couple of 
weeks, especially as the property needed  significant  drying.  
From what  Ive seen its apparent there  were  delays of a few weeks  as Admiral and its 
agents couldve done more to progress  the works in February 2018. So Mr R has been 
further inconvenienced. But, I cant agree there were delays  of six to eight weeks as 
suggested by Mr R. I say this because the time between the drying process  completing  and 
the works  beginning was approximately  one month.
On balance, Im satisfied £150  fairly  reflects the inconvenience  Mr R incurred as a result of 
the delays and Admirals lack of communication. So I wont  be asking  to Admiral to increase 
its offer.
For completeness, Ive considered whether the disturbance allowance of £10 per person, per 
day, is fair. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  Mr R incurred reasonable costs above  this 
amount, and as Admiral  paid it for the duration  Mr and Mrs Rs bathroom and kitchen were 
out of use, Im satisfied its acted fairly. And the amount is in line with what  wed expect 
insurers to pay in the circumstances. 
I know my decision is going to disappoint Mr R but I hope he understands why Ive reached 
this decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9154064