K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy about the delays caused  by Auxillis Limited after he was involved in an 
accident.
background 
In December 2018, Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt  his fault. He used 
the services of Auxillis,  an accident  management  company  (AMC) to arranged  vehicle repair  
and a hire car. Mr G said he was told his claim had been submitted to the third party insurer  
(TPI). But in February 2019  Mr G was told that the TPI couldnt be located  and he was 
referred back to his own insurer. Mr G said hed notified Auxillis  about the correct insurer, 
and once Auxillis  contacted them his claim was settled. But there was then further delay in 
receiving his settlement  cheque as the payment was sent to the wrong address. Mr G 
complained to Auxillis.
Auxillis said the wrong TPI details  had been  given  to them  by Mr Gs insurer, and theyd  
been proactive  in trying to get the right details. They apologised for the delay  in receipt  of the 
settlement cheque as this was due to the incorrect postcode being used.
Mr G wasnt happy with Auxillis response  and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that there was a delay caused  by Auxillis notifying the wrong TPI. And 
there was a delay  in the settlement payment being made because of an incorrect address. 
She said Auxillis should compensate Mr G £75 for each of the delays, a total of £150.
Auxillis didnt agree as they said they couldnt be held responsible for the incorrect  details as 
these had been provided by Mr Gs insurer.  And the incorrect postcode  was an 
administrative error, the right address details had been supplied  but the engineer had used 
an incorrect postcode.  They  asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
AMCs usually become involved when a non-fault accident takes place. In these instances, 
theyll arrange for a hire car and repairs on a credit basis  theyll cover the upfront cost of 
these and claim it back from the TPI. The advantage of using an AMC is that the claimant 
doesnt have to pay their policy excess,  and their no-claims  bonus  is unaffected.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr G is complaining about took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  would have taken.
Ref: DRN98013242There are two parts to Mr Gs complaint,  the delay caused by failing to contact the correct 
TPI, and the delay in receiving his salvage  settlement  due to the incorrect postcode being 
added to the letter. 
Mr Gs accident was in December 2018, his car was hit whilst stationary. It was deemed to 
be non economical  for repair but he didnt receive his settlement until March  2019. In 
reaching my decision I need  to determine whether any delay  could have been  avoided. Ive 
looked at Auxillis records to see what happened here.
Auxillis has said they only became aware  they had the wrong TPI  Ill call Q after they sent 
the engineers  report to them. I can see they sent the report in late January 2019.  And at the 
end of January  2019  they were  told by Q to contact another TPI Ill call GB. This they did 
on 6 February 2019, and GB responded 12 February 2019 to say they didnt have a record 
of insuring the third party. And it was after this on 26 February 2019 that Auxillis told Mr G 
they were unable to locate the TPI. Following which Mr G said he made Auxillis  aware  of the 
correct TPI, and they sent the details of his claim to them and settlement was agreed.
I can understand why Auxillis would think they werent the cause of the delay as they were 
contacting the TPI details  theyd been  given. I can see in their records that they were first 
given the details of Q on 27 December 2018,  but I can also see on 28 December 2018, 
GB was first mentioned. Auxillis has said theyd been proactive during the cause of 
handling Mr Gs complaint, but Ive seen little to no evidence of this as they continued to 
contact only Q up to the beginning of February  2019. They  sent reminders after theyd sent 
the engineers  report, but I cant see they looked to check with Mr Gs insurer  or Mr G in the 
interim. If they had I think the correct TPI could have been  identified sooner and this would 
have meant  Mr Gs claim would have been settled earlier.
Mr G was clearly  inconvenienced by Auxillis actions  as he had to keep chasing for updates. 
And I do think some of the delay could have been reduced if Auxillis  had been more 
proactive in checking the TPI details. So, I agree with our investigator that Mr G should be 
compensated £75 for this.
I have also checked  Auxillis records for the details they held for Mr Gs address. On the 
vehicle hire agreement  I can see Mr Gs correct  postcode was recorded. But on another  
document the repair finance agreement the postcode was incorrect. This is a document 
headed Auxillis  so I again agree with our investigator that Auxillis has some  responsibility 
for this error occurring,  and Auxillis should compensate Mr G £75 for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Auxillis Limited  to pay Mr G £150 compensation for poor 
service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2021.
Ref: DRN98013243Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9801324