K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has added a marker to CIFAS, the national  
fraud database, which is making  it difficult for him to open an account elsewhere.
background
Mr M banked with Barclays.  On 18 September 2017  a new savings account was opened in 
his name  online.  And on 20 September 2017 a credit for £4,240  was received into this 
account. Part of this money was transferred to a third party  bank account and the rest was 
quickly withdrawn from his accounts. Barclays received a report that these funds were 
fraudulently obtained. It told Mr M that it would be closing his account. He later found out that 
it had registered  the marker when accounts he held at other businesses were closed and he 
wasnt able to open an account elsewhere.
Barclays said it had registered the marker correctly. Mr M hadnt been able to explain how 
his details had been discovered  by someone  else.  Some  of these withdrawals  were  made  at 
an ASD  machine using  his card and PIN and also his date of birth. And he had logged  into 
mobile banking  during  this period but didnt then report what had happened or the loss of his 
card.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-Mr M had now said that he had lent his mobile phone  to someone in his college and 
believes that person  saw all his security  details kept on a notes page.
-Mr M said he lost his card around that time. This was kept separately in a pocket and 
when he noticed  he couldnt report it through his mobile banking app as he was 
locked out.
-He didnt think it likely that someone could have  obtained Mr Ms details by chance 
when using his phone  and then been  able to obtain his card.  Someone would also 
have needed to be able to open an account. He also didnt think  it likely someone  
would keep their date of birth on a phone to paste into job applications  which had 
been Mr Ms explanation.
-The records from Barclays showed that Mr M had been regularly checking his 
account using  mobile banking  during this time.  And Mr M had said hed had this 
phone with him during the period.
-He thought it most likely Mr M had given someone else access to his security 
information and account.
-Barclays was entitled to close the account and had met the criteria for registering a 
marker at CIFAS.
Mr M, who is represented in this complaint, didnt agree. He said that he never  gave 
permission for anyone else to use his account.  His date of birth could have been known to 
others at the college. The person who borrowed  his phone was an opportunist and took his 
information. It was totally  unacceptable that Barclays  had registered this marker and not 
provided the information it had relied on. He said he would be contacting the police.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96915872I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2009. And to think about 
whether Mr M authorised the payments from his account. Thats  more than the payments 
being authenticated but would require him to consent to them.  If he didnt  authorise  them  
then generally  Barclays  wouldnt  be able to hold him responsible  for them.
I also need to consider  whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays  
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed  or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported  to the authorities. I wont be specifically looking 
at whether its complied  with data protection requirements in providing the information Mr Ms 
representative said he wanted and thats  something he may want to take up with the 
Information Commissioners Office.  
the use of his account
Im satisfied that the payments  from the accounts were  correctly authenticated  with the 
correct security information based on the evidence Ive seen from Barclays. The issue  I need 
to decide is whether Mr M consented to them.
Mr M has given  different explanations of what happened. I appreciate that some of these 
were given through his father  but who had authority to act on his behalf. The complaint notes 
from Barclays made when it spoke with his father  said that he thought someone had seen 
his PIN over his shoulder. Mr M wrote  to this service saying that he had lent his phone  to a 
named person as he wanted to make a call.  And that this person definitely  saw his details 
all recorded on this phone although  Mr M didnt realise that at the time.  When challenged 
about why he would  have kept his date of birth on a notes page  on his phone,  his 
representative then said that it would have  been known anyway as he was at college.  
Im going  to set out all the findings  Id need  to think most likely  if I was to accept Mr Ms 
account:
-A person was by chance  (and unknown to Mr M at the time) able to access his phone  
and under the guise of making  a call searched  it for information and found a page  
containing Mr Ms security information including what would be needed to log on to 
online banking and his PIN.
-That person, if he didnt see the date of birth on the phone, was also able to find this 
out and later to obtain Mr Ms card also without him knowing.
-That person  was able to open  a savings account using online banking to access      
Mr Ms customer profile and then took the risk of detection by waiting two days before 
trying to use the account.
-Mr M didnt notice  what  was happening.  Although he says he didnt notice his card 
was missing because  he doesnt use his account he still did check  his account very 
often using mobile banking and the phone number already registered. In particular  he 
did so twice on 18 September  2018, four times on 19 September 2018 and twice  on 
20 September 2018 both times  on that day after the money in question  had been 
paid in and then removed from his accounts.  So Id need to think the new account 
opened and these payments didnt become apparent to him and he was checking on 
a regular basis for some  other  purpose.
-Mr M couldnt  use any other  means to try and tell Barclays his card was lost and 
seemed to wait until he received a letter saying his account was being closed.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  Im able to make as most likely based  on the available  
evidence. I think it most  likely that Mr M was aware  of what  was happening with his accounts 
Ref: DRN96915873and either  made the payments himself or allowed someone else to make them. I consider he 
was aware that the money  that came into his account wasnt due to him. And so I find he 
authorised the activity  on his account and is fairly  responsible for what happened  even  if 
someone else made the withdrawals.
the CIFAS marker
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because  Mr M received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So Ive looked at whether  Barclays was fair to apply the marker,  based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs  to have enough information  to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there  are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.  
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events  and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays  had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be recorded.  In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and reasonably knew that they 
werent his.
-He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control  of who had the 
benefit of this money.
-Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr M had used fraudulently obtained  funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I consider Barclays had a basis  to close  his account without notice under the terms and 
conditions as it believed  fraud had taken  place. I appreciate the difficulties Mr M is having 
opening an account elsewhere but I dont have a basis to require  Barclays  to do anything 
further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9691587