K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON) AEGON put a condition  on 
him taking  his Protected Tax Free Cash  and transferring the rest of his pension  into a 
drawdown policy.
Background
Mr O complains AEGON  put a condition on him taking his Protected  Tax Free Cash and 
transferring the rest of his pension into a drawdown  policy. He said the law didnt  require him 
to have advice  for a transfer out because his policy was worth less than £30,000. 
The policy terms allowed  him to take his protected  tax free cash (PTFC) which entitled him 
to about £5,000 more  than the normal  25%. He wanted to take the PTFC and transfer  the 
rest into drawdown but the policy didnt offer that option. AEGON  were make things more  
complicated and putting  him to expense by requiring  him to take financial advice before 
transferring into drawdown when  the law didnt require it. He said AEGON  didnt advise  him 
of this restriction during  the term of the policy. This meant he hadnt planned for the cash  
flow impact due to the delay it caused. Nor had he made provision for the cost of financial 
advice. He also complained about  communication with AEGON  saying it had taken  time to 
get the information he needed and some information  provided was generic. This was 
contrary to regulator  guidance on communicating with customers  in closed schemes.
Mr O also referred  to the terms and conditions  which  said the member wishes  to receive a 
cash sum in lieu of all or part of an annuity. AEGON said this meant he could take his 
protected tax free cash with the remainder as an annuity or take it as a UFPLS where 25% 
would be tax free.
AEGON said the law didnt require it to offer a flexi access  drawdown for this plan. If Mr O 
wished to take his PTFC and put the rest into drawdown he would need to take advice. It 
was a business decision to not allow such a transfer  on a non advised basis. This was 
because of the complexity of this plan. It didnt  agree some of the leaflets sent to Mr O were 
misleading. It pointed  out that the leaflets  said they were a summary of the general benefits 
available but hed need to refer to the specific options relevant for his policy. 
AEGON said the policy  wouldve  been  issued at the start of the plan and a policy  schedule  
was sent to him. The money advice leaflet  sent to him also advised checking what options 
were available and were clear that not all schemes  offered all options. 
The investigator didnt  propose to ask AEGON to do anything.  He said that while the 
Pension Schemes Act 2015 didnt require advice  for transfer under a certain  value that didnt 
prevent AEGON imposing  such a condition. The provisions of the act were  permissive  so it 
wasnt compulsory for AEGON to offer the full range of new options. AEGON  had made a 
business decision to ensure financial advice  was taken before completing certain types of 
transfer which they are entitled to do. He didnt think the literature hed been sent was 
misleading.
Mr O didnt agree. He felt the requirement  to take advice wasnt  in his best interests and 
therefore the regulator guidance. The advice was for the benefit of AEGON  and not him. The 
guidance meant he shouldve been  given details of all the options available to him but 
instead he was given generic information.  
Ref: DRN96729222He wasnt contacted in 2015 when the policy terms changed but the investigator said there 
was no notification requirement for changes to the policy.  The investigator  said there had not 
been a change in 2015 as the policy had never  offered a drawdown  option. The requirement  
for financial advice  wasnt  a policy term but a restriction to the basis upon which AEGON 
would use it discretion to allow a transfer  into a fresh contract in a manner not covered by 
the policy.
AEGON said Mr Os policy had never offered a drawdown option  so there hadnt been any 
changes. The requirement for financial advice wasnt a restriction in the policy terms but due 
to a new contract.  Such  a transfer would be discretionary and AEGON  could attach  
conditions to allow the transfer. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said the policy had been changed to remove  the option  to take a full or 
partial cash transfer as an alternative to an annuity and he wasnt advised of that change  to 
the terms and conditions when it advised of the change in annuity provider.
Mr O eventually took financial advice  to effect the transfer in the manner he wished. He 
mentioned that the IFA waived his fee as he felt he was being treated  unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To make an award against AEGON I first need  to decide if it has done anything wrong. 
I can understand Mr Os frustration as he was required to take financial advice before taking 
his PTFC  and then transferring into drawdown. As he says he didnt have any safeguarded 
benefits in the policy  and it wasnt worth  more than £30,000. This meant the law didnt 
impose a requirement  for such advice. The imposition of the requirement  for advice made  it 
harder for him to take his benefits in the way he wanted.
However drawdown was not an option under the policy and the law doesnt require it. It was 
at AEGONs discretion  whether to allow  this and on what terms. I can understand Mr O may 
not have wanted to use the other options  especially if they meant he would not get the 
benefit of his PTFC. But as there  is no contractual or legal  requirement  to provide the 
drawdown option I cannot direct AEGON to provide it nor direct  it as to how it exercises  its 
discretion to make the option available.  So I dont think AEGON did anything wrong in taking  
the approach  it did by imposing a requirement  for financial advice.
Mr O says the requirement to take advice wasnt fair. AEGON said this was a business 
decision in cases such as this. So the provision would apply to other consumers in his 
situation. So it doesnt seem AEGON has been  unfair to him specifically by treating him 
differently to others  with the same policy and AEGON wasnt  forcing him to take drawdown. 
Even if I am wrong in my conclusion about  fairness Mr O had a choice whether or not to 
accept the terms that allowed him to do as he wished or to accept the options  provided 
under the contractual  policy terms.
Mr O also says the requirement to take advice wasnt in his best interests because  it put him 
to cost. In reality he felt it was for the benefit of AEGON.  I can understand Mr Os concern 
but the advice did ensure the transfer  into drawdown was suitable for him. I cant  say it was 
unreasonable of AEGON  to impose  the requirement  for advice before transferring into 
Ref: DRN96729223drawdown. I say that partly because Mr O didnt have a right to the option  so it wasnt a 
restriction on the policy. This meant AEGON had the discretion to impose  terms to allow  it. In 
addition drawdown  is perceived as a more complex  method of accessing pension  benefits. 
As the Money Advice service says regarding drawdown unlike  an annuity the income isnt 
guaranteed for life, so this option carries more risk that your money might run out before you 
do. It points out that the option carries more risk but brings more flexibility. 
I have also considered what Mr O says about communication. But I note the policy terms 
were provided at the outset. Regular communication didnt cover drawdown as it didnt exist 
at the time. Even when  drawdown was introduced by law there  wouldve been  no reason to 
provide information  about it as AEGON had not opted to provide it. 
With respect to the information provided  at retirement. At time the regulator  was undertaking 
a review of the information provided  prior to retirement. There  was a particular focus  on 
providing the generic information  of the type that was supplied  to Mr O. That information 
shouldve been  helpful. It will have helped highlight what other options might be available  in 
the market. In reality  Mr O chose to take an option that wasnt covered by the policy  but was 
mentioned in the generic  information. While Mr O mightve thought  an option was available  
when it wasnt the leaflet did caution against assuming all options  were available. I think  it 
wouldve been helpful if the specific options had been presented. But as Mr O wanted  an 
option that the policy didnt provide it didnt make any difference  to his decision.
Mr O also complained about some changes  he felt had been  made  to other options under 
the policy that removed the option to take a full or partial cash alternative to the annuity.  He 
felt this wouldve  meant he could take the PTFLS  without  financial advice. He said this option 
was lost when  the policy was moved to a new provider and not notification was issued  to 
policyholders at the time.
But he took financial advice and selected the drawdown option. Even if the changes had 
been made I dont  think it made any difference. I say that as following  financial advice,  which 
was generously provided for free, he selected  the option that allowed  him to take his PTFC 
and place the remainder in drawdown and it isnt now possible to take another  option.
So for all the reasons  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN96729224my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672922