K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mrs T says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mrs T that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs T says it was never made clear to her that the PPI was optional.
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mrs Ts application  form for the credit card.  This included a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to show whether Mrs T wanted to take it out. And 
there is a cross in the yes  box.
If Mrs T didnt want the PPI, I think she could have  left the section blank or put a cross in the 
no box. So I think Barclays  did make it clear to her that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And I think Mrs T chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Barclays gave Mrs T any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means Barclays  didnt have to check if 
the PPI was right for Mrs T. But it did have to make sure she got the information  she needed 
to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And 
it wouldve  meant she didnt need  to rely on her family or any savings she had to make  her 
repayments if she wasnt earning. So I think it would have been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mrs T off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs T, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN95919612my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9591961