K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt compensate her for the inconvenience 
caused when  they gave  her misleading  information  over an arrangement to pay.
background 
Mrs S has a loan with Shawbrook, which is currently under an arrangement to pay. Mrs S 
called Shawbrook and asked if she could make the payments on this arrangement  with a 
credit card. Shawbrook said this wasnt possible.
Mrs S then received a letter  from Shawbrook about  her arrangement.  The letter  referred to 
payments by debit  and credit card so Mrs S called Shawbrook to query  this. She was told 
again that it wasnt possible to make the payment by credit  card.
Unhappy with the response, Mrs S complained to Shawbrook. She was told credit card 
payments could be accepted in exceptional  circumstances, with the approval  of Shawbrooks 
Head Office. This was because it generally  didnt accept debt to be paid back using other 
debt. Shawbrook then accepted Mrs Ss request to make payments with her credit card.
Shawbrook apologised  for the information  Mrs S received  about  her payments, and agreed it 
could be misleading.  But it didnt feel its actions had impacted  Mrs S financially, and so didnt  
offer any compensation.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and upheld the complaint. He felt after reviewing Mrs Ss 
journey there was some level of distress  and inconvenience caused. And whilst he 
acknowledged Mrs S hadnt  lost out financially, he recommended a payment of £50 to 
acknowledge the impact to Mrs S.
Shawbrook disagreed with our investigator. It said the information  it provided in the letter to 
Mrs S wasnt  relevant to her  it hadnt  agreed to take credit card payments from her at that 
stage. And it maintained  the information given to her on the phone was correct, as in most 
cases it doesnt accept  credit card payments.
Shawbrook asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint, so its been  passed to me to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ill be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why below.
Shawbrook has accepted the information  it gave to Mrs S was misleading. But it doesnt 
accept that its should  pay any compensation, as it says theres  no financial impact to Mrs S.
But our service also looks at the wider  impact, distress,  and inconvenience caused when we 
decide to make an award for compensation. In Mrs Ss case, she is already under an 
arrangement to pay with Shawbrook   she tells the advisor shes in a bit of financial difficulty  
on her initial  call. So I think she was already  concerned  about  her ability  to repay the debt.
Ref: DRN92416912Ive listened to the calls Mrs S made  to Shawbrook,  and reviewed the contact notes.  I can 
see Shawbrook twice  told Mrs S she was unable to make credit card payments  once when  
she first asked  to do this, and again  when she queried the letter she received. 
Shawbrook then changes  its position when Mrs S complains. It says credit card payments 
can be made under exceptional circumstances  it appears this was only done  as a direct  
result of Mrs S complaining.
Whilst I accept  Shawbrooks  reasons for generally not accepting credit card payments, 
I agree  with our investigator that the information  it provided did cause a level of distress to 
Mrs S. She made a number of phone  calls to Shawbrook in an attempt to make  her payment 
as a result  of the unclear  information she received. And if the information had been clearer,  
I think its likely she wouldnt have needed to make as many calls and spend  as much time 
getting to the bottom of the issue.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think our investigators suggestion of £50 compensation 
to Mrs S is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must pay Mrs S 
£50 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9241691