K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2010. Mr M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ms mortgage application. On it is a section related to PPI where I 
can see the option for the policy has been selected.  I can see that there is a box that 
couldve been selected if he hadnt  wanted  the policy. This seems to have been left 
blank. Ive also seen  a copy of Mr Ms mortgage  offer  and it says The Borrower  has 
instructed the Lender to provide Mortgage Repayment Protector Insurance with full 
accident, sickness and unemployment  payment protection insurance. If Mr M hadnt  
chosen to take the policy  he couldve questioned  it when he received his mortgage offer 
 and I cant see he did so.  I think NatWest made it clear  that Mr M didnt have  to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr M mentioned  he 
had an existing medical condition but hasnt said what it was. But in any event it doesnt 
appear that Mr Ms policy restricted or limited claims related to existing medical 
conditions. So it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr M says he wouldve received sick pay from his employer. He also says he had 
savings he couldve relied on. But the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay 
he wouldve received   and for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of 
accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for 12 months if he lost his job. And having 
the PPI meant he could use his savings to cover  other necessary expenses   at what 
couldve been a difficult time had he found himself  out of work.  It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  It follows that I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result  of anything 
NatWest did wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN92153812Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before date.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9215381