K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. refused  his claim against his travel  insurance policy.
background
Mr W has an annual,  worldwide, multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
Mr W says that on 30 March 2018, whilst having  a spa treatment in the hotel he was staying 
in, a metal  bowl fell onto his face, which resulted in a fractured nose. He says there was no 
immediate need  to seek medical advice  and they were in a remote  place in any event. Mr W 
says that he spoke with a friend, whos a GP, who told him to take analgesia, use a cold 
compress and re-evaluate  in a few days.  Mr W says that his nose was swollen but didnt 
bruise, so he didnt take any photos of the injury. 
Mr W says that he told Mapfre about what had happened at the time, which it disputes. 
Mr Ws fellow traveller sent an e-mail to the hotel  after theyd departed in which he said that 
Mr W would  get a scan on his nose when he returned home. 
When Mr W returned home, he saw his GP and was referred to hospital.  On 18 April 2018, 
Mr W had a procedure in which his nasal bones  were manipulated under local anaesthetic. 
Mr W says hes been left with a deviated septum  and intermittent breathing difficulties. He 
wants Mapfre to purse  his claim against  the hotel. 
Mapfre said that Mr Ws case didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, so it wouldnt 
pursue it. 
Mr W wants Mapfre to investigate the incident properly by contacting the hotel and gathering 
evidence and then provide proper  compensation for his injury.
One of our investigator  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Mapfre acted 
unreasonably in declining Mr Ws claim.  Mr W didnt agree. He said that it wasnt clear to him 
why Mapfre based  its decision on the prospect of success, as he didnt think this was how 
insurance works. Mr W says that he had insured himself  against something untoward 
happening. 
Mr W said that the hotel accepted  liability  in an e-mail exchange but later said that its guilt 
was largely implied  by the e-mails he sent to the hotel. He said that his question  is why 
Mapfre wont investigate.  Mr W doesnt understand why travel insurance is different from car 
or property  insurance.  Our investigator  reiterated his view that Mapfre  hadnt acted unfairly. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94511182the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy. The policy includes the following:
Section  N: Overseas Legal Expenses and Assistance
What is covered
We will pay up to the amount shown in the Policy  Schedule for legal costs to pursue a civil 
action for compensation if someone  else causes  You Bodily Injury , illness  or death.  []
Special Conditions  Relating to Claims
[]
4.We will decide the point at which Your legal case cannot usefully be pursued further . 
After that no further claims  can be made against  Us.   
What is Not Covered
[]
2. Any claim where in Our opinion there is insufficient prospect of success in obtaining  
reasonable compensation.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint because  I dont think  that Mapfre  treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:
The injury Mr W sustained isnt covered under the personal accident section of his 
policy which, subject to certain provisions, provides cover  for injury which solely  and 
independently of any other  cause,  results in death, loss of limb, loss of sight or 
permanent total disablement within two years. So, its not a matter of Mr W making a 
claim, Mapfre investigating and then paying  his claim.
Mr Ws policy does  include  cover for legal costs to pursue a civil action for 
compensation if someone injures him. Mapfre dealt  with Mr Ws claim as a claim 
against that section of his policy.  
Under the terms of the policy, Mapfre has complete discretion about  pursuing a claim 
for compensation in a civil action and Mr Ws policy excludes  claims where  Mapfre 
thinks theres insufficient prospect of success in obtaining reasonable compensation.
Ive looked  at whether Mapfre came to its decision  fairly  in this case and I think it did. 
Mapfre sought legal advice, which is what wed expect it to do in cases  like this. 
The legal advice  was that there wasnt enough  evidence to pursue the case. Given 
that there was no overseas medical evidence at the time of the injury, no photos of 
the injury or any admission from the hotel, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Mapfre to conclude  that there was insufficient  prospect  of being successful in 
obtaining reasonable compensation.
Ref: DRN94511183I think Mapfre considered Mr Ws claim, sought  appropriate legal advice and 
concluded that theres insufficient  prospect of success  in obtaining reasonable 
compensation. Thats a decision its entitled to come to under the terms of the policy 
and one I think it reached fairly. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9451118