K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) mis-sold a Motability 
car insurance policy to him. His No Claims Discount (NCD) wasnt protected. Mr K is being 
represented by Ms B in his complaint.
background
Mr K entered into a lease agreement for a car under a Motability  scheme in 2014.  His insurer  
was RSA. In August 2017 Mr K was involved in an incident and his car suffered minor 
damage. He made a claim to RSA and it settled the claim as a fault claim.  No other vehicles  
were involved.
In 2018 Mr K left the Motability scheme and bought a car insurance policy with another 
insurer. Mr K asked  RSA to confirm his claims history. RSA told him it could provide him with 
a letter  confirming his claims history, but not his NCD. As a result of the claim, Mr K had no 
years since  hed made a claim. RSA said a term of its insurance policy  under the Motability 
scheme is that it doesnt protect NCD. 
Mr K complained to RSA.  He said his premium was much higher  compared to what he paid 
with ten years NCD before he entered into the Motability scheme in 2014. He didnt think  this 
was fair. But RSA said it had acted correctly and in line with the policy terms. 
RSA said it offers insurance  for fleet vehicles. A customer pays  to lease a vehicle and the 
insurance is part of the package. It said it didnt ask Mr K any questions about his NCD as it 
doesnt take NCD into account due to it being  a lease  vehicle.
Mr K asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably. 
RSA provided a copy of the original Statement  of Fact and a scheme booklet which the 
dealership said it provided  to Mr K at the point of sale. The booklet explained that Mr K 
wouldnt accrue a NCD  while  in the scheme.  
Mr K didnt agree. Mr K says that when he entered into the Motability  scheme in 2014, he 
wasnt given a booklet. He says if hed been made aware that his NCD wasnt protected, he 
wouldnt have entered into the scheme.  Mr K wants RSA to provide him with a letter 
confirming he had 64 years protected NCD before he entered  the scheme. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As we werent there when  Mr K chose to enter the Motability scheme, we dont know for sure 
what was discussed  and what documents were given to Mr K. So instead, Ive considered  
what I think on balance happened  based on the information available  to me. 
RSA says Mr K was provided with a Motability  scheme booklet  at the point of sale as this is 
standard practice. Mr K says he didnt  receive  a booklet. He believes RSA should have 
discussed with him at the point of sale that his NCD wouldnt accrue under the scheme.
Ref: DRN94555692RSA has provided us with a copy of the booklet. It highlights the following:
Q. Am I eligible  for any no-claims discounts?
A. As the car is owned by Motability  Operations Ltd, you will not accrue  no claims
discounts, and any no-claims history held prior to joining the Scheme may no longer 
be accepted by insurers if you leave the Scheme. However, in the majority of cases  
RSAM can provide  a letter  confirming the claims history on the Scheme if required, 
which is accepted  by many insurers.
As I said,  I cant  say for sure that Mr K was or wasnt provided with a booklet. But I think   on 
balance  Mr K was most likely provided  with a booklet. And as the booklet  highlighted that 
Mr Ks NCD  wouldnt accrue under the scheme, I cant  conclude that RSA acted 
unreasonably here.  
Mr K feels  the explanation  provided  by RSA is ambiguous and misleading  as Mr K says 
RSA has refused to provide a letter confirming  his previously accrued  NCD while  on the 
scheme. But I dont agree. RSA has offered to provide a letter confirming Mr Ks claims 
history while  on the scheme. RSA isnt under any obligation to confirm  Mr Ks claims history  
or NCD before he entered into the scheme. 
I think there may have  been some confusion because  had Mr K not made a claim in 2017 
 RSA would  have been able to say in a letter that Mr K made no claim while on the scheme. 
But it cant say this. When Mr K called RSA in 2018 to ask for a claims history  letter,  RSA 
told him it couldnt provide one. As Mr K had made a claim in 2017, it said he effectively had 
no claims history. I think perhaps RSA could have been clearer  and explained  that it couldnt 
provide Mr K with a letter confirming he was claim free while under the scheme.  But I dont 
think it changed the outcome. And I can see RSA gave details of the claim in its reply  to 
Mr Ks complaint in June  2018. RSA isnt responsible for how another  insurer  treats this 
information when  deciding what premium it charges Mr K. 
Mr K said he asked  about his NCD in 2014 and was told it would be protected. RSA says it 
has no record of this. Mr K says that if he had known his NCD wasnt protected,  he wouldnt 
have entered  into the scheme.  There isnt enough for me to be persuaded that this would 
have been the case. Mr K was in the scheme  for over three years.  Theres  no evidence  to 
show that Mr K raised a query or concern about  his NCD  until 2018.  
From what  Ive seen, I think on balance RSA made Mr K reasonably  aware of how his NCD 
would be affected  under the scheme. RSA has told us its happy to provide Mr K with a letter 
confirming his claims history. But as it will show there are no years since  he made a claim, 
unfortunately it wont help Mr K. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. Hes explained that due to the 
increase in cost for his car insurance, it makes  it difficult for him to afford to continue  driving. 
This will have  a major impact  on his independence. 
I appreciate that the cost of Mr Ks car insurance as a result of his claims history has gone 
up  and this has had an impact financially. But taking everything into account, I cant  safely 
conclude that RSA acted unreasonably.  And so it follows that I dont think  it needs to do 
anymore. 
Ref: DRN94555693my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9455569