K820x#14complaint
Mr N complained about how esure Insurance Limited valued his car under his motor
insurance policy.
background
After Mr Ns car was in an accident  esure  said it was uneconomical to repair  and offered him
what they said was its market value, plus extra for his cars tow bar, and less his policy  
excess. But he didnt  think that was enough. When esure wouldnt agree he brought  his
complaint to us.
The investigator thought that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. He said esure hadnt
offered a fair valuation for the car. Esure didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look
at the case.
I issued my provisional decision on the case  on 1 May 2019 saying I didnt intend to uphold  
the complaint.  Neither esure nor Mr N has commented on that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N is entitled to his cars  market  value. This is an amount that reflects the cars value
immediately before the accident. It takes  into account a number of factors including the cars
age, condition, mileage  and specification.
Esure valued his car at £11,650 plus £300  for his tow bar. Mr N was unhappy with both
values. He said that he couldnt  buy a replacement car for that as the cheapest  he could find
in the country  was about £13,000. He also wanted  £600 rather  than £300 for the tow bar as 
he said that was what it would cost to fit one on his replacement car. He said this was 
because a tow bar had no second hand  value as they were  welded to the cars frame and it 
would be unsafe  to reuse one.
As the investigator  explained to Mr N, we dont  decide the market  value  of any car. Our
approach is to look at a number of motor guides that are used to value second-hand cars.  
We think these guides are a reliable  indication as to value as theyre  based  on nationwide
research of likely but not actual selling  prices, not advertised prices.
Esure said that they followed the same  process  as this Service  to value a car. They valued
Mr Ns car using three trade guides  but as one of the guides  was higher and out of line they
didnt consider that one and instead averaged the values in the two other guides.
The investigator also looked at the trade  guides.  As he explained, historically this Service
used three  guides,  but now uses those three plus an extra guide, making four guides.  The
investigator thought  that the values  in two of those  four guides were close, but the others
were outliers. The investigator felt that it was fairer  to average the values in all the four
guides and not to treat any as outliers.  As the average of all four guides was £12,141.25,  he
thought that was a fair market value.
Ref: DRN91767182However I thought  that the highest of those four guides was an outlier. Whereas  the other 
guides had a value spread of only a few hundred pounds apart, the highest guide was much  
more than the next highest valuation. As it differs quite significantly from the other  values, I 
thought that it was an outlier. So I didnt think that it was reasonable to include that and to 
create an average valuation from all four guides. And so I thought  that esure were also 
reasonable when they excluded the highest guides valuation  from consideration. And so I 
couldnt say that the £11,650 that they offered Mr N was unfair as its generally  in line with of 
the range  of values from the remaining three guides whose values arent  significantly 
different. Overall, I didnt  think that what esure offered Mr N for his cars market  value  was 
unreasonable.
I also thought  that the £300 esure offered for Mr Ns cars tow bar wasnt  unfair. I appreciate  
that its attached  to the car but Mr N is not entitled under his policy to the replacement value 
of the car or items fitted to it and so I dont think that new replacement cost is justifiable even 
if that were £600. Esure considered that his tow bar was fitted  after manufacture and their 
engineer estimated its value to be from about  £250 upwards. Whatever Mr N paid for it, its 
no longer new and so esure thought that it would have depreciated. This seems  reasonable, 
even if, as Mr N says,  in practice  used  tow bars are not sold on, as someone buying an old 
item would not expect  to pay as much for it as for a new one. And as I thought  that esure 
had given a reasonable  explanation for the amount  theyd offered for his tow bar, I agreed 
that esure didnt need to pay anything more for the tow bar.
Neither esure nor Mr N has commented on my provisional decision, and so I see no reason 
to change it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9176718