K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) has rejected a claim he 
made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act. He says he bought a headphone from a 
supplier which was defective. He returned  the headphone to the supplier and wants  
Nationwide to refund him the money  he paid using his credit  card.
background
In February 2018,  Mr O bought a headphone  from a supplier and made  a payment of 
£321.99 using  his Nationwide credit card. He says that the item was defective and he 
contacted the supplier  in order to return it. However,  the supplier couldnt  find a record of the 
sale so Mr O couldnt return  it within the 30 day time limit to get a refund. 
After contacting them again, Mr O was sent an email by the supplier on 25 May 2018 which  
confirmed the order number and it said that the order  related  to a headphone. Mr O says he 
returned the headphone to the supplier  and so wanted a refund of the money  he paid for it. 
He made  a claim under section 75 against Nationwide but they declined the claim. 
They said that Mr O didnt  have  a valid section 75 claim as it had to be proven that the 
contract had been  breached by the supplier or a misrepresentation had occurred. They  didnt 
think this was the case. 
Mr O brought the complaint to us and it was considered  by one of our investigators  who 
didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said that supplier couldnt find any order 
which related to the headphone that Mr O said he purchased.  He said they could only find 
two other  electronic items  that were purchased by Mr O but these were under a different 
order number, albeit  on the same day. And as Mr O couldnt provide evidence to show he 
bought the headphone, our investigator  didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that he had provided proof that he purchased  the headphone and 
that he didnt order any of the other electronic items mentioned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about everything 
that Mr O has said but while Im sorry to disappoint  him, Ive decided  not to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Im required  to decide what, if anything,  Nationwide should do to resolve Mr Os complaint. In 
doing that, I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable,  having  regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant  law. Relevant law includes section 75 Consumer  Credit  Act.
One effect of section  75 is that (subject  to certain  limitations), a person who pays a supplier 
for goods or services with their credit card can claim against the card issuer if the supplier 
doesnt keep to the agreement or makes  a misrepresentation.
The supplier  says that Mr O didnt ever order a headphone from it. So it never supplied  him 
with a headphone, let alone defective  ones.  But they do say that they supplied him with two 
different electronic items.  Mr O insists that he did buy a headphone. So here I need to 
decide firstly  if I am persuaded that Mr O did purchase a headphone  from this supplier.
Ref: DRN96121832The terms on the suppliers website say that a customer  can return a faulty item within  30 
days, for a full refund or replacement. As Mr O was having difficulty in getting any sort of 
order confirmation from the supplier, he had missed the 30 day deadline.
Mr O agrees he didnt initially receive  an order confirmation from the supplier. But he has 
provided various other pieces of information which he says shows  that he purchased a 
headphone from the supplier. 
Ive had a look at the statement that Mr O has provided which shows the transaction on 
there for £321.99.  Even  though this statement shows a transaction  for O2, its not clear what  
the order was actually for.
Ive seen an email from the supplier, provided by Mr O dated 25 May 2018. This email 
quotes the order number, the price paid and also that the order  related to a particular  
headphone purchase.  
Our investigator contacted the supplier  to find out more  about what had happened  here and 
in particular about the email Mr O had provided.  Unfortunately, the supplier couldnt verify 
the details contained in the email of 25 May 2018. They have told us that the order number 
and the payment of £321.99 didnt  relate  to a sale of a headphone rather, it was for two 
different electronic items  that Mr O had bought from them. The supplier said that an error 
was made  in the email confirming it was for a headphone, because it was in fact two 
different electronic items.  So because of this, I cant be sure that what  Mr O is trying  to claim 
back actually relates  to the defective  headphone he says he bought  from this supplier.
Mr O has provided  proof that he posted  the item back to the supplier. Although the 
confirmation shows that it was posted to the supplier, it doesnt  say what  had been  returned. 
It also doesnt confirm  which  supplier it had been  posted back to. So its difficult  to say what  
was actually returned.
Copies of Mr Os phone  records to show that he did make calls to the supplier shortly after 
receiving the faulty headphone. But the supplier  couldnt find any record  of a sale on its 
systems. It did however  have a record of other electronic items bought  by Mr O.
I appreciate that Mr O has provided  us various pieces  of information but Im not persuaded 
that they relate to the item he is trying to obtain a refund  on. I therefore cant  be sure that he 
actually bought a defective headphone for which he paid £321.99 using his Nationwide 
credit card  from the supplier he has mentioned.
The phone records Mr O has provided show that Mr O called the supplier but he has said 
they couldnt locate his order  so this still doesnt help. And the email  confirmation that Mr O 
has provided, doesnt match the exact records that the supplier holds.
Mr O has also said that if Nationwide had looked  into this matter  earlier  instead  of delaying it, 
it could have been disputed as a standard chargeback claim, and not a section 75. The 
investigator checked with Nationwide  to see if they had considered  this claim initially  as a 
chargeback  but they said they didnt. They said they still couldnt  do this without  Mr O 
providing sufficient  evidence that he ordered the headphone.  Based  on this, I cant say that 
Nationwide have dealt  with this unreasonably or unfairly.
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly ask Nationwide  to refund the money based on what Mr O 
has provided so far. 
Ref: DRN96121833my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612183