K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled  a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy by another driver.  She wants  it to remove  an at fault claim 
from her record.
background
Miss R was involved in an incident  where she told Advantage she had just touched another 
drivers car but no damage had been caused. She sent in photos of the two cars and she 
said Advantage told her it would get information from the other driver. But Advantage 
decided there wasnt  enough evidence to defend  the other  drivers claim.  And as Miss R had 
admitted liability, it paid the claim.  Miss R was unhappy with that as she thought the claim 
was fraudulent.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Advantage 
had created an expectation  that it would consider the photos and question the other driver. 
He thought there were inconsistencies between  the photos of the other car that Miss R took 
at the time and those later provided  with an engineers report. So he thought Advantage 
could have asked  further questions and inspected the car. He couldnt  say that this would 
have led to a different  outcome but he thought the quantum may have  been  different. So he 
thought Advantage should pay Miss R £150  compensation for the upset caused by its level 
of service.
Advantage replied  that the circumstances  held Miss R at fault for the claim. It said the other 
driver had only claimed for repair to the damaged area and a hire car. It said its engineer  
had reviewed the damage. It didnt challenge  other  damage that wouldnt increase the cost 
of repairs. It had settled  the claim on a without prejudice basis  so Miss R could take the 
matter to court at her own cost if she so wished.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R told Advantage  that shed hit the other car square on, albeit at low speed. Under 
these circumstances,  Miss R would always be held at fault for any claim made. Advantage 
explained this to her when  she called  it to report the incident. And it told her that it would 
settle any claim made by the other driver. So I think its fair and reasonable that a fault claim 
was added to Miss Rs record and I dont require Advantage to remove it. 
Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Miss R to take over,  
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Miss R has to follow  its advice in connection  with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers  are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim before making its decision.
Ref: DRN96744592In this case, liability wasnt in dispute. So Advantage relied  on the other  drivers  claim,  which  
it thought was reasonable, and Miss Rs account of events to decide to settle the claim on a 
without prejudice  basis and so avoid further  costs. Looking at its file notes, it later reviewed 
the damage report and photographs provided by the other drivers insurer.  It said these 
photographs were  clearer than those taken by Miss R as they were taken from a closer 
distance and showed cosmetic damage to the cars  bumper. It said it thought  it would be 
unable to defend the matter if it went to court. 
I think Advantage is entitled  to do this under the policy  terms and conditions.  But I dont think  
this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as I dont think Advantage reasonably  
investigated the claim and considered the evidence before making its decision. 
When Miss R first called  Advantage about  the incident, it noted  her concerns about there 
being no damage caused. Miss R and the agent discussed this several  times. The agent 
said she said no record of any damage  to the other drivers car. Advantage told Miss R that it 
would review her photographs and contact  the other driver. But it settled the claim without 
doing this. It was only after Miss R complained that it asked the other insurer  for evidence  to 
substantiate the claim. Its file notes state  that Miss R didnt dispute the quantum of damage 
even though shed raised this in the first call. 
So Advantage left Miss R after the first call with the expectation that her evidence would be 
considered, but it wasnt at the time. And then it only investigated the claim when Miss R 
challenged this. I think that if Advantage had done  this earlier, then its unlikely that the 
outcome would have  been different. But I think Advantage caused Miss R avoidable trouble 
and upset by its level of service. 
The investigator recommended  that Advantage should pay Miss R £150 compensation for 
this level of service. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar 
circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Miss R £150 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9674459