K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
February 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in part. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Satsuma nor Mr A have provided me with any further information or observations 
following my provisional decision and so I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached therein.
Putting things  right
I dont think that Satsuma should  have  given loan four to Mr A and so it should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan four;
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the date of settlement;
apply the refund to any outstanding principal balances before repaying any remaining 
balance to Mr A;
remove any adverse information  about  loan four from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require Provident Personal Credit  
Limited (trading as Satsuma)  to put things  right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN96088642EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
This complaint relates to four instalment loans  given to Mr A during 2018 and 2019.  Each of the loans 
was due to be repaid in monthly instalments.  Mr A successfully repaid loan two, but a balance  
remained outstanding  on loans one, three and four at the time he made his complaint  to Satsuma. A 
summary of Mr As borrowing from Satsuma is as follows:
Loan No Amount Date lent Repaid Term of loan Repayment pm
1 £800 18.4.18 Outstanding 12m £132.80
2 £400 17.7.18 27.12.18 6m £126.40
3 £600 30.10.18 Outstanding 8m £150.00
4 £1,000 10.4.19 Outstanding 12m £166.00
Our adjudicator didnt think that Satsuma had done anything wrong in providing the loans. He felt that 
the lender shouldve sought more information from Mr A before it gave him loan four but, from the 
information available,  he didnt think that Satsuma  wouldve seen  anything  to dissuade it from lending 
even if it had carried out better  checks.
Mr A didnt agree   and so he provided us with copies of his bank statements from the time of the 
loans. But, having reviewed these, our adjudicator still felt that Satsuma hadnt been  irresponsible in 
lending to him.
Because Mr A doesnt  agree  with our adjudicators findings the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr A could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma  should fairly  
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN96088643I think  its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required  to establish whether Mr A 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Before it agreed to provide the loans Satsuma asked Mr A for details of his income and expenditure. 
He told it that his monthly income was between £2,500 and £3,500 - and that his monthly  expenditure  
(including mortgage,  other loans and other outgoings) ranged between £800 and £1,500.
Satsuma also gathered  data from credit  reference agencies and it validated  his expenditure  against 
its own internal  models. It then used  this information to calculate how much disposable  income Mr A 
had left over each month, after having added safeguard  buffers  to any elements of his declared 
expenditure where it considered this to be appropriate.
Loans one to three
The repayments that Mr A had agreed to make on his first three loans were, individually, relatively  
modest compared to the income that hed declared to Satsuma. I note, though,  that loan two was 
given to Mr A whilst loan one was still outstanding, and then loan three was provided when both loans 
one and two remained owing. So Ive taken into account the fact that hed need to repay  more than 
one loan at the same time for a period. But, even  so, I think that the repayments wouldve  appeared  to 
be comfortably affordable  based upon the disposable income that Satsuma had calculated.
Ive also considered the credit file data that Satsuma obtained before it lent to Mr A and whether  that 
ought to have  led it to make  further enquires. I think its important to recognise that, generally,  the 
information a consumer might  see when they request a copy of their credit file might be very different 
to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small  portion  of the credit file, or some data might 
be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences  
between the information obtained by Satsuma from its credit checks compared with information that 
may have been evident in Mr As own credit  reports. I should  note that I havent seen Mr As own 
credit report.
Satsuma was aware  of headline information such as the number of new accounts  Mr A had opened  in 
recent months, whether he was insolvent, and whether  there had been any adverse credit  file data 
recorded in the preceding months. I dont think that those headline findings wouldve  raised any 
concerns at the time and, equally, I dont think that Satsuma  had any reason  to doubt the information  
that Mr A gave it when he applied  for the loans.
So given the repayment amounts, what  was apparent about  Mr As circumstances at the time and his 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  It follows 
that I dont  think it was wrong for Satsuma to provide loans one, two and three.
Loan four
Ref: DRN96088644There was a gap of over five months between Mr A applying for loan three and loan four. But I note 
that, when he did apply for loan four, both loans one and three  were still outstanding.
I agree with our adjudicator that, by the time he applied for loan four, Satsuma shouldve asked Mr A 
for more  information about his financial  commitments   most  specifically, details  of his other short 
term loans.  I say this because Satsumas own affordability assessment had, from its credit checks, 
recognised that Mr As financial commitments were appreciably higher than what  hed declared  to it in 
this particular loan application. Mr A had told Satsuma that his monthly  financial commitment was 
£500  to which Satsuma then added an additional safeguard figure of £993,  taking the total to 
£1,493 per month.
After making this adjustment, Satsumas calculations indicated that Mr A still had sufficient  monthly 
disposable to afford loan four. However,  I think that the extent of the disparity between  what Mr A 
declared to be his monthly financial commitment  and that which Satsuma identified  from its credit 
checks is so great that it shouldve sought to verify  the information with him. 
Ive looked at Mr As bank  statements and can see that, at this time,  he already had short term loans 
outstanding with four other lenders. I think that, had Satsuma undertaken the better  checks that Id 
consider proportionate in these circumstances, it wouldve seen that it was unlikely Mr A would  be 
able to repay  its loans in a sustainable manner, and that he was most  likely borrowing  to fill the hole in 
his finances from repaying other loans.
Taking all of this into account I dont currently think that Satsuma  shouldve given loan four to Mr A, 
and so it should put things  right as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan four;
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the date of 
settlement;
apply the refund  to any outstanding  principal balances before repaying  any remaining  balance 
to Mr A;
remove any adverse  information about loan four from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN9608864