K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way their home  insurance claim for fire damage was 
handled by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
background 
In May 2017  Mr and Mrs Ws home  was damaged  by a fire which had started  in their 
neighbours property. They had to move out with their young  family, initially  to a hotel, then 
into rented  accommodation. AXA appointed loss adjusters who in turn appointed a surveyor 
to cost the work. He didnt keep Mr and Mrs W informed and when they found out a builder 
had been asked to quote for the work,  they said they would like to use their own surveyor.  
AXA agreed to this. Subsequently their surveyor got a quote for the work from a contractor  
known to him. AXA agreed to proceed based on that quote.
Work started on the property around the end of September  2017.  Mr and Mrs W said the 
completion of the work was delayed due to AXA failing to pay the builder  on time. As a result 
they said they werent able to move back into their home in time for Christmas. The works 
were finished around the end of January 2018 and Mr and Mrs W moved back  home. They  
made a formal complaint to AXA, detailing the poor communication and the delays, in 
particular how the matter had affected  their family.
AXA responded, apologising for the delays but indicating that any delay in payment of the 
builder hadnt  delayed the overall work schedule. It offered to pay £800 compensation, which  
Mr and Mrs W rejected.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that the compensation be increased to 
£1,000. Mr and Mrs W rejected this, as they felt their complaints hadnt been addressed.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are a dispute resolution service. Our function is to resolve complaints informally and as 
necessary award  what we consider  to be appropriate compensation. To that end I dont 
propose to analyse  in detail the reasons for the problems Mr and Mrs W  had  with AXA or its 
representatives in the course  of the claim.  Rather  I will consider how overall the issues  
affected Mr and Mrs W.
delay/ failure to communicate
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that the works  were delayed,  firstly  because  of the tender 
process and then by AXA failing to pay the contractors. They  expected to be back  home in 
time for Christmas but werent because of the delay. This was particularly upsetting  as they 
have young children.
The damage to the property  was extensive,  so AXAs  loss adjusters appointed a surveyor to 
carry out a tendering process. This would be usual in the case  of such a large  loss. Its clear 
that Mr and Mrs W werent kept informed about this process and when they realised that a 
Ref: DRN94341982builder was being asked to quote without their knowledge they requested  their own surveyor  
be appointed.  AXA agreed to this. Without going into the details of the process, I can only 
see that one quote was obtained before Mr and Mrs Ws surveyor took over.  That surveyor 
also only obtained one quote. After reviewing  that quote against the previous quote  the loss 
adjusters persuaded AXA that it was reasonable, despite it being considerably more.
The tenders  were supposed to be received by early July. Because  of the miscommunication  
and AXAs surveyor not explaining the process, there was a delay in getting the work 
started. AXA did try to mitigate the delay by accepting the quote obtained by Mr and Mrs Ws 
surveyor without carrying out a formal review of it.
Mr and Mrs W were informed by the contractor that there was a delay caused by AXA failing 
to pay on time. It meant that he was unable to order the kitchen. And it does appear  that a 
payment was missed  in November because an email went  astray.  AXA has said this didnt 
cause any delay in completing the work.  I simply cant  tell from the papers whether  or not  
that did cause  a delay. I accept that it was upsetting to Mr and Mrs W to be contacted 
directly by the builder.
Overall, and regardless of any impact any delayed payment  may have had, I think there was 
a delay which likely took the works beyond Christmas. I accept that would have been 
upsetting to Mr and Mrs W and their children.
failure to put scaffolding  up
Scaffolding was supposed to be put up to protect the property. However  there was a 10 day 
delay in doing this as the damaged decking at the back of the property  wasnt  safe. The 
delay meant  that rain got into the property. Unfortunately if the ground wasnt  safe,  there 
wasnt much  AXA could  do about this. I accept that this was upsetting  but I note AXA 
accepted full liability for the repairs.
contents list
Mr and Mrs W had to spend  a long time remembering and collating their initial list of 
damaged/destroyed contents.  They tried to give as much information as possible only to
be asked for verification on many of them. This meant they had to re-do  a lot of work they'd 
already done.  I can understand that this was very stressful. I havent got any detailed 
information about the list of contents. But in a high value claim like this, the insurer is entitled 
under the terms  of the policy to ask for details  of the contents lost. It also can require 
verification, so I dont  think I can criticise AXA here.
disturbance allowance
Mr and Mrs W dont  feel that the allowance given to them whilst they were in a hotel was 
sufficient. They were  paid £10 per day for adults and £5 per day for children. This is a 
standard allowance insurers pay when their policyholders dont have access to cooking  
facilities. It wont necessarily cover  the whole cost of food as its intended only to cover  the 
extra cost.  I think the payment  was reasonable here.
neighbours liability
Mr and Mrs W feel it unfair that their neighbour, whose fault it was, had all his repairs done 
some time before them.  I understand that he accepted a cash settlement as he is a builder. 
Ref: DRN94341983I  understand that that was frustrating  but I think it was wise for Mr and Mrs W to go through 
AXA to get their repairs done.
Mr and Mrs W were promised that recovery would be considered  at the conclusion  of the 
claim but they havent been given any information.  It appears from the papers that AXA 
advised Mr and Mrs W that negligence  would have to be proved against  the neighbour. It 
looks like it was considered but ruled out. I dont  think AXA advised Mr and Mrs W of this 
and it clearly should have done.  Generally it is difficult to prove  liability  against a third party  
in such cases.  The insurer  wont pursue  recovery if it thinks  it doesnt  have  a reasonable 
chance of success.  So whilst I am critical of AXA not keeping Mr and Mrs W informed I dont 
think it reasonable to expect it to take any further action.
compensation
Mr and Mrs W have  explained that the claim has been very stressful, particularly for their 
children and it has affected their health. Our investigator  explained that by its nature the 
claim itself would have  been very stressful. I can only expect AXA to pay compensation for 
any added  stress caused by its failings. And these  are in particular the delays  and lack of 
communication which I can understand aggravated an already difficult situation.  I havent 
seen any medical  evidence but I can understand  how the situation would have affected 
young children.
I think, taking into account  the extent to which AXAs actions contributed to Mr and Mrs Ws 
distress and inconvenience, that a payment of £1,000 is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay to Mr and Mrs W £1,000 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9434198