K820x#14complaint
Mr J took out a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  in 
September 2001 and he says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr J took out the following accounts with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free December 1993
Gold AVA Fee charged September 2001
Account closed August 2010
Mr J says that he took out the GAVA because he believed he had no choice and he was 
pressurised into taking it. He says that he didnt use the benefits of the GAVA  very much,  he 
didnt receive sufficient information about it, and it was unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Mr J disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Js complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr J knew he had a choice about taking out the GAVA;  then 
whether Lloyds acted  correctly when making the sale.
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mr J had had a fee free bank account for many years  
before he took out the GAVA.  He was an experienced  user of banking  facilities and fee free 
bank accounts  were widely advertised and available from Lloyds  and other financial 
institutions. So, while I dont doubt  his honest recollections, I think  its more likely than not 
that he would have been aware that fee free bank accounts were  available  to him from 
Lloyds and others at the time of the sale. 
Mr J says he was pressurised into taking the GAVA. I acknowledge that Lloyds was trying to 
sell the GAVA to him, and so would probably  have explained the benefits to him extensively. 
And I expect  this may have felt like pressure to Mr J. But as I say above I think  he was 
aware he had a choice and if he didnt  want the GAVA  I think its more likely than not he 
would have kept the account he had with Lloyds  or looked elsewhere for a fee free account.
So in my view he was aware he had a choice  about  whether  to take out the GAVA for a 
monthly fee or not and he chose to do so.
Lloyds advised  Mr J to take out the GAVA. So the requirement on Lloyds was to provide 
sufficient information  to Mr J to make an informed  choice about the GAVA and to check 
whether the policy  was suitable for him.
Ref: DRN95245652The GAVAs  benefits  include  worldwide family travel insurance, Sentinel card protection,  120 
day purchase protection, extended warranty, travel accident insurance, accidental  death 
benefit, £100 interest free overdraft; and a variety  of discounted services.  The GAVA cost £8 
per month.
I dont know exactly how the GAVA was presented to Mr J but as Ive said above Lloyds was 
trying to sell Mr J the account and he says that felt like pressure to him. So I think its more 
likely than not that Lloyds explained the benefits in some detail.  Lloyds says it provided Mr J 
with a booklet about the GAVA, and Mr J later used some  of the benefits, for example 
registering for one of the insurance products.
So I think its more likely  than not that he knew enough about what he was buying  for him to 
decide that it was worth  his while to do so, and that if he knew  more  it wouldnt have put him 
off buying the GAVA.
When he took out the GAVA, Lloyds  needed  to ensure it was suitable  for him. I dont know  
how well it did this, but Mr J says he travelled abroad up to three times a year and there was 
no aspect of the GAVAs benefits  that he wasnt eligible for. So I think the GAVA was 
suitable for him. 
Mr J says he had a significant medical condition from before the sale in September  2001  that 
might have excluded  him from using  the travel insurance. However the travel  insurance 
covered his whole  family and it didnt exclude  pre-existing  medical  conditions;  it only 
required the applicant  to declare them. Im aware  of the nature of Mr Js medical conditions 
and I think its more  likely than not he would have obtained cover either for free or for a small 
competitive additional premium  if hed tried to use his GAVA  travel  insurance.
So overall, I dont  think that Lloyds mis-sold the GAVA to Mr J or that he lost out as a result 
of anything Lloyds  did or didnt  do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9524565