K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that a car she has financed through an agreement with Black  Horse Limited 
(Black Horse) was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Ms P has been represented by Mr S throughout this complaint but for ease I will refer to 
Ms P in my decision.
Ms P took receipt of a used car in May 2018. She financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse. The car was about eight years old and had completed  71,000  
miles at this point.
In February 2019  Ms P complained to Black  Horse. She said the lacquer was peeling  from 
the paintwork.
But Black Horse didnt think this was their responsibility. They  explained that they were only 
responsible for faults with the car that were there or developing at the point of supply and 
they didnt think  that was the case with the problem Ms P was complaining of.
So Ms P referred her complaint to this service.  Our investigator thought that if an issue of 
this kind was present  when Ms P had taken receipt  of the car it would have presented  itself 
much earlier.  She noted Ms P had the car for nine months when she complained  of the 
problem and she wasnt persuaded that there was sufficient evidence  of a fault with the car 
at the point of supply  - when Black Horse  wouldve been responsible. So she didnt think 
they needed to take any further action.
But Ms P disagreed  and she asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms P acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse  are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Black Horses responsibility for the car is not unlimited.  Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Ref: DRN95146022Ms P didnt complain about the lacquer  peeling off until shed had the car for nine months. 
And, as shed had care of the car for so long, I think its reasonable to suggest it was for 
Ms P to demonstrate that the fault was most likely  to have been there when she took receipt 
of the vehicle. 
But Im not persuaded that was the case because:
an independent engineers inspection  was conducted in July 2018 on this car. The 
inspector noted some  paint problems but said these  would  have been  clearly  visible  
at the point of sale.  If Ms P was aware  of the issue at the time it wouldnt be 
reasonable to hold Black Horse accountable for it subsequently.
the issue Ms P now seems to be complaining of appears to have  happened  more 
recently. But Im not persuaded it was developing at the point of supply because  I 
think its likely the July inspection  wouldve  identified it and, even  if it didnt, I think its 
most likely there  would have been signs of failure  before nine months  had elapsed.  
So Im not persuaded this fault was developing or was present at the point of supply and I 
therefore dont  think it would be reasonable to ask Black Horse to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9514602