K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mrs M has complained to us that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and was of the view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, Mrs M met those rules. This means that she was 
eligible for the cover and could have claimed  on the policy  if she needed to.
Next Ive considered  whether RBS made it sufficiently clear  to Mrs M that the PPI was 
optional. Mrs M completed a form when applying for her card. This had a section about the 
PPI which  asked her to tick to show whether she wanted to take out the policy.  It stated:
For cover just tick this box.
Mrs M ticked  in this section and signed  the form. Having read this, I think  its likely that 
Mrs M would  have  known  the PPI was optional, because she would have known that it was 
open to her to leave  the box blank. So on balance, I think RBS made  it clear  that Mrs M 
didnt have to take out the policy and it was her decision to take it out.
In addition RBS was required to give Mrs M information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so she could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take 
the policy. Mrs M told us that insufficient  information was given to her about the PPI. She 
also told us that she didnt need the policy. She informed us that she was in secure 
employment and that if shed been too ill to work,  shed have been entitled  to six months full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay. 
Its possible the information that RBS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. In 
addition, given her circumstances  I dont think that she would have been affected by the 
main exclusions  and restrictions under the terms and conditions.  And the cost of the policy  
Ref: DRN96840322was comparable to the cost of other,  similar  policies available at the time. So on balance, I 
dont think having  better  information would have dissuaded Mrs M from taking out the PPI.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so the Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But the Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9684032