K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs F have  been represented throughout their complaint.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1999. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The policy covered Mr F only. The PPI covered  Mr F for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy would have  paid out for up to 
24 months per claim. The cost of the policy  was £30.19 and the monthly benefit in the event 
of a successful claim was £450.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  for an ombudsman to consider and issue  a final 
decision.
While the complaint was awaiting  an ombudsmans decision  there was a Supreme Court 
case. Following the court  case in August 2017, The Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
provided guidance and rules on how businesses  should approach compensation for PPI 
when a consumer  complains about  the sale of PPI. It referred to a two-step  approach. 
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
Nationwide said that it still considered  it hadnt  mis-sold PPI, but in light of the new rules  and 
guidance, Mr and Mrs Fs complaint was affected.  Nationwide confirmed that it did  charge a 
high level of commission on the premiums Mr and Mrs F paid, and offered to refund the 
commission and profit share it received  that was above 50%.
Mr and Mrs F still feel that the policy was mis-sold and want  a full refund of everything they 
paid towards PPI.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN95563762Mr and Mrs F feel very strongly about  the sale of the PPI. Mr and Mrs F say they were  told 
that PPI was something they had to take in order to get the mortgage. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application  form. The form is a 
pre-printed. So it seems as though a Nationwide representative took them through  the 
application and then printed off the form and Im satisfied the details on the form were  
representative of what was discussed.  
There is a section for PPI and it shows that PPI was taken  for disablement  (so accident  
and sickness) and unemployment combined, with a claim benefit of 24 months and a 
monthly benefit of £350 per month with an additional  £100  amount of cover required.  And 
this cover was for Mr F only.
It goes on to ask two questions to confirm whether the applicants  are eligible for the policy. I 
note that Mr F is confirmed as being  eligible  and the second applicant (so Mrs F) is N/A 
which in this case means not applicable as she wasnt taking the insurance.
Nationwide has also provided  a sample copy of a mortgage application form, from around 
the same  time, where it says it shows what would  have happened when PPI had not been  
chosen. Under the section for insurance it states  you have not requested  this type of 
insurance cover at this time .
I know that Mr and Mrs F feel strongly  that it was implied PPI was required in order to obtain  
the mortgage and have  written detailed correspondence about the sales practices. I would 
like to assure Mr and Mrs F that I have carefully  considered their complaint points about  this 
particular matter. I cant comment  on general sales practices, within this decision I can only 
look at what happened  in the sale of their PPI policy. 
Where theres disagreement about what happened I have to look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely  to have happened.  On one hand, 
Mr and Mrs F say they were told they had to take PPI in order  to get the mortgage. And on 
the other hand  I have Nationwide, through its mortgage application forms, evidencing that 
PPI wasnt compulsory for a mortgage  to be granted.
From looking  at the paperwork, there  is nothing that suggests the PPI was a compulsory 
requirement of obtaining  the mortgage.
The policy was chosen for Mr F only with 100%  benefit, and not Mrs F. I appreciate  that 
Mrs F was self-employed at the time, and with some  PPI policies it can be harder to claim for 
the unemployment benefit if you are self-employed. I dont know if that was the reason, or 
whether that was Mr and Mrs Fs own decision. 
Also, disablement and unemployment combined, with a claim benefit of 24 months was 
chosen. So it seems  there  was a choice here. Mr and Mrs F could have chosen 
disablement or unemployment only. 
After careful consideration I think it is most likely  that PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs F as 
an optional product and they chose to take it  and because of this it was added  to their 
mortgage at the level they required.
I cant fairly conclude that the adviser  did something wrong when there  is no evidence to 
suggest they did.
Ref: DRN95563763I note that Mr F previously held a mortgage  (with another lender) prior to taking this 
mortgage with Mrs F, with Nationwide.
It transpired that Mr F had a PPI policy in place on that earlier mortgage. And when  that 
mortgage was redeemed the policy remained in place.  The insurer  of that PPI policy was the 
same insurer  of the PPI policy that Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs F. Mr and Mrs F say 
Nationwide was aware of this. I disagree.  Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs F a PPI policy to 
protect their new mortgage. They werent to know what  policies Mr F already had in place. If 
anything, it was for Mr F to know what policy he had in place. The new policy Nationwide 
sold Mr and Mrs F had its own policy number and protected the new mortgage account. I 
also note the insurer has refunded the premiums Mr F paid because  the old existing policy  
hadnt been closed down.  So I dont  think  Nationwide  has done anything  wrong, and I dont 
think Mr F has lost out as a result.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Nationwide assessed Mr and Mrs Fs individual  
circumstances such as their employee  benefits,  other insurances  polices  held and from this 
provided a tailored recommendation  for PPI. So, on balance,  I think this was most likely a 
non-advised sale. This means Nationwide didnt  have  to make sure the policy was right for 
them. But it had to provide Mr and Mrs F with enough  information so they could make an 
informed choice as to whether to take the policy.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But Im satisfied  that they likely  chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Fs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it could have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said - including what  hes said about the level of sick 
pay he received from his employer if he was unable  to work. But Nationwide didnt make a 
formal recommendation  to Mr F to take the policy after assessing his individual 
circumstances. It had to provide clear fair and not mis-leading  information  to Mr F, and it was 
for Mr F to decide whether he considered the policy to be of use to him. I note that it was 
clear within the mortgage application form that the policy provided up to 24 months of cover. 
So it was for Mr F to decide whether he felt that the PPI would have been of use to him at 
the time.  And as Im satisfied that Mr F chose  to take out the policy I think  he considered  the 
PPI to be a useful benefit. So this point doesnt change my decision.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because  in 2017, 
following a Supreme Court judgment, the FCA, issued some new rules about how 
businesses should  deal with complaints about  PPI.
Ref: DRN95563764The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide has said that the level of commission and profit share it received  did create an 
unfair relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr and Mrs F paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included  8% per year simple 
interest to compensate  Mr and Mrs F for the time they were  out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs F have  made some comments around  the amount of commission Nationwide  
received. But Nationwide has done what the rules it must follow  tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Fs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about  the amount of commission and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Nationwide to do anything more.   
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F has said - including  what  theyve said about the 
sale of the PPI and Mr Fs existing  policy from an earlier mortgage. But for the reasons  given  
above, these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs F the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs F can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556376