K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a mortgage  in 1992. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Ms S disagreed with that view. She said that it wasnt made  clear  to her that the policy  was 
optional and that she didnt need  a policy because she had good  sick pay and savings. The 
representative also said Ms S wouldnt have taken the cover  out if Nationwide had told her 
about the commission it would have received from her premiums. 
As Ms S didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive considered all of the evidence before me. But I havent upheld this complaint.  Ill explain 
why below. 
Ms S told us that she bought PPI in a meeting with Nationwide. I cant  know  what  was said 
during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Ms S told us about it. And Ive also considered  what  we know about how Nationwide 
sold PPI policies at that time. 
In her PPI questionnaire, Ms S told us that the policy was added  without her knowledge and 
that she was also told it was a condition of the loan. Its not entirely  clear  to me how Ms S 
could have been told the PPI was a mortgage  condition if she hadnt been told about it. But 
nevertheless, Ive considered whether Nationwide would have made it clear that this policy 
was optional.  
At the time,  Nationwide did offer some mortgages where PPI was compulsory. But I dont 
think the loan Ms S took out met those  criteria. I can see that the PPI policy  was free for the 
first 12 months of the mortgage.  So as there was a free period for this cover,  I think  it would 
have been clear it was an incentive for Ms S to buy the PPI. This suggests to me that the 
PPI would have  been offered as optional  otherwise there  would have been no need for 
Nationwide to offer 12 months free.  Its unlikely she wouldnt  have  had to pay for a financial 
product that was a condition of her loan. 
In any event, I can see that Ms S cancelled her PPI policy in February 1994. So Im satisfied 
that she would have known the policy wasnt a condition  of the mortgage  because  if she 
did, she wouldnt have thought it was possible to cancel it. 
The parties agree that Nationwide didnt advise Ms S to buy this policy.  But it still had to 
make sure she was given enough information  about the PPI so she could make her own 
Ref: DRN97874352decision about whether it was a good  fit for her needs. That information had to be fair, clear 
and not misleading.  
I accept that it is possible  that Nationwide didnt  tell Ms S everything it should  have  done  
when it sold PPI to her. So the question for me now is whether she would have acted 
differently if shed been told everything she should have  been. To help me decide what she 
is likely  to have done, Ive looked  at what Ms S told us about her personal circumstances at 
the time.  And Ive also considered the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on the PPI policy, Ms S mortgage payments 
would have been covered  for up to 24 months  if she became unwell or if she was made 
redundant. Ms S told us that shed have had sick pay for 12 months if she was out of work. 
So I think the policy would have paid out for longer and in addition  to the means  she had in 
place from work. 
In her PPI questionnaire, Ms S told us that she had savings that were the equivalent value of 
12 months of her salary.  However, when our adjudicator sought clarification about her 
savings, Ms S told us that she had approximately £600 in savings. So I dont think this would 
have affected  her decision to take a PPI policy out. And in any event, Ms S has been unable 
to give us any details  of the cover  she had. 
Ms S also told us that she had other insurance  policies she could have used to repay her 
mortgage if she was out of work.  When our adjudicator made further  enquiries,  Ms S told us 
she had health  insurance and an endowment policy. But I dont think those policies would 
have covered Ms S if she ran into difficulties  paying  her mortgage. 
A significant feature of this PPI policy is that Ms S wouldnt have been able to make  a claim 
unless she was off work  for at least 90 days.  This waiting period is, in my view, relatively 
lengthy. And so Ive thought carefully about  what Ms S would have done if that clause  had 
been brought to her attention. Through  her representatives, Ms S has been adamant that 
she had very good sick pay arrangements from her employer and so it seems  likely that she 
would have had full pay for those 90 days. On that basis, I dont think  Ms S would have been 
put off buying  the cover  because of that waiting period. 
Ms S appears to have been  in good  health  at the time she took the cover out. So I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the exclusions we usually see about medical conditions. 
And I havent seen  anything unusual about her employment  circumstances  that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to. 
Overall, I think Ms S might have found  PPI helpful if she couldnt  work. And although  I 
appreciate she doesnt  now remember, I think she probably chose to take this cover out at 
the time.  
Commission 
Ms S representatives made some detailed  arguments about  the commission  Nationwide  
received from her PPI premiums. They said she wouldnt  have taken the policy out if 
Nationwide told her how much it would have been paid in commission.  
Ive thought carefully about what the representative said on this point. Having done that, I 
note that Ms S took her mortgage out in 1992  and that it was redeemed  in 1999. That being 
Ref: DRN97874353so, the rules about  disclosure of commission dont apply in Ms S case.  I agree with what  our 
adjudicator said and Nationwide doesnt  need to take any further  action regarding  this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Nationwide Building  Society does not have to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9787435