K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains Stirling House Financial Services Limited (Stirling) advised him to transfer  
his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP)  to a new provider  which  wasnt  in his best 
interests. 
Mr I is represented by a claims management company (CMC)  but for ease of reading Ill 
mainly refer to Mr I in this decision.  
background
Mr I has been a client of Stirling House Financial Services Limited since 2010, advised by 
Ms F. He had a SIPP with provider S which had been invested in an Unregulated Collective 
Investment Scheme (UCIS) related to the recycling  industry. Due to concerns about  liquidity  
the investment  was sold in October 2013 and the funds  held in cash.
In 2014 Ms F discussed retirement planning with Mr I. The fact-find  records  he was aged 64, 
working as a zoological researcher, with his main income of £15,000 per year from research  
grants as well as £100 per week from two defined benefit pension schemes. He was 
married, owned his property outright, and in addition to the SIPP  it was recorded he had 
approximately £14,000 invested in shares  plus £100,000 in an investment. At the time he 
was six years away from his intended  retirement, and his attitude  to risk (ATR)  had been  
recorded as medium. 
Mr I was interested in ecological funds with ethical management. But rather  than explore 
suitable funds  with S, Ms F recommended Mr I transfer to another  SIPP with Transact and 
invest for the long term in Stirlings own in-house funds, which  wasnt possible through S.  
Mr I accepted the advice and in late December 2014 just under £52,000 was transferred to a 
Transact SIPP and invested equally in HC Stirling House Growth Fund and HC Stirling  
House Dynamic Fund which were classified  as medium  and medium/adventurous  risk funds. 
In 2016 Mr I was unhappy  his investments had lost 2-3%  and wondered  about another 
environmental investment, but as it was also a UCIS  Ms F advised against  it. 
In 2018 Mr I complained  to Stirling about the transfer. Stirling  rejected his complaint  saying  
the process Ms F followed had been  compliant,  the advice had been suitable, and Mr I had 
suffered no financial  loss. So the CMC  complained to this service  on behalf  of Mr I.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and upheld  it, although  some  of the 
CMCs complaint points  were generic and not relevant to Mr Is circumstances. She said 
while it was right for Mr I to move  out of a UCIS,  he didnt need to transfer to another  SIPP  
with Transact, as suitable fund options through provider S werent considered. Stirling  had 
continued to benefit from the SIPP charges  while  the funds remained in cash, and only 
recommended the transfer to benefit  from the advice fee and so Mr I could invest in Stirlings  
in-house funds. The charges  were higher so Mr I needed growth of at least  11.5% to offset 
these. And investing  in high risk funds lacking  in diversity wasnt suitable for Mr I, given his 
proximity to retirement and minimal  capacity  for loss. To put things right she said the value of 
Mr Is SIPP  should be compared against  an investment index and fixed  rate bonds. And she 
recommended Stirling  pay Mr I an additional  £150 for his trouble and upset.
Stirling didnt agree, saying Ms F couldnt  review  the funds available  through  S, as her status 
as a restricted advisor meant she could only advise on Stirlings own products. And while  
the funds shed recommended were new, they mirrored other more established funds with a 
Ref: DRN91744232proven track record. She also said Mr Is portfolio was balanced,  as he had invested an 
inheritance of £130,000  on a low risk basis. And while Stirling  acknowledged  the charges 
were relatively high, the ongoing advice charge had been halved and Mr Is investments 
were performing well. 
The investigator considered these comments, but they didnt change  her mind. She didnt 
think Ms Fs status  as a restricted advisor had been made clear to Mr I. And as not all 
Stirling advisors were restricted Mr I could have been referred  to a non-restricted colleague. 
Even if the Stirling funds  mirrored other more established funds, they still had no proven 
track record themselves,  and were a high-risk strategy which  wasnt  appropriate  for Mr I. The 
£130,000 low risk investment hadnt  been  included in the fact find, and current  fund 
performance isnt enough  to make it a suitable  recommendation.  So she still thought  the 
advice was unsuitable and Stirling should put things right as she had set out.
So its been  passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator, Ill explain why. 
I dont disagree with the advice to move out of the UCIS in 2013, as they are generally high 
risk with no protection. And according to the risk questionnaire, Mr I considered  himself  to 
have little  or no investment experience.  Although Mr I was committed  to ethical 
investments, I understand the recycling  fund later closed  without  value, so hed have lost his 
money. Stirling says his funds remained in cash while  they identified investments  which  met 
Mr Is requirements  in terms of ethical and social responsibility. But I dont think this 
outweighed Stirlings  responsibility to ensure they were suitable  for Mr Is ATR and age, 
given he intended  to retire in six years. Particularly  as his income was dependent  on 
research grants which  could have ceased at any time, meaning he might need  to retire 
earlier.  
The suitability letter dated 20 December  2014 gives the impression Ms F recommended 
moving away from S due to their slow service and lack of online facilities. And the response 
to our investigator says S was putting pressure on Stirling to switch  their clients into a 
particular fund. Im not persuaded  S could influence the choice  of funds in this way. And I 
dont think it was made sufficiently clear  to Mr I that the recommendation in favour of the 
Stirling funds was only made because Ms Fs status as a restricted advisor meant  she could 
only recommend her own firms products, and couldnt review  the funds available to Mr I if he 
stayed with S. 
Ive looked at Stirlings terms of business provided  to Mr I in December 2014. This does say 
we only offer advice  from the Stirling House range  of investment products. But the next 
sentence reads Should your needs fall outside  the scope of the Stirling  House range of 
products we will refer your requirements to a Stirling House Independent Advisor. So even if 
Ms F couldnt personally have reviewed the funds available to Mr I with S, it seems  she 
could have referred him to a colleague who could have  done so. So Ms Fs personal  inability  
to explore the options available through provider  S, doesnt mean  Mr I had to transfer his 
SIPP. The suitability letter says the investment managers for the Stirling fund have a deep  
rooted history of ethical,  environmental and socially responsible  governance but Ive seen 
Ref: DRN91744233nothing to suggest they specialise in the environmental and ethical investments favoured  by 
Mr I. 
Stirling provided this service with an outdated fact find which confused  matters.  It seems  in 
2010 Mr I consulted Stirling about investing  an inheritance  of £130,000 and Ms F 
recommended he put £100,000 in Stirlings Tuscan  fund which invests in traded 
endowment policies (TEPs),  for a term of 4.5 years, keeping the remainder in cash. Stirling  
considers the Tuscan fund to be low risk as it provides 80% capital protection.  But I dont 
think this is enough  to balance Mr Is pension savings which are in relatively  risky funds, 
given his age, ATR, proximity to retirement  and capacity for loss. 
Ive looked at the ATR questionnaire completed by Mr I in December 2014.  His overall  score  
was -4 which directs the advisor to choose funds from the top line of a table. Question 3 
says people generally wish to reduce the volatility of their investments as they approach  
retirement. Mr I ticked the box to indicate  this applied to him, and that he had 5-10 years 
before retirement.  Question 9 asked how much  of his pension hed like to invest over various  
timelines: short term (less than 5 years), medium term (5-10 years), long-term (11-20 years) 
and very long term (20+ years). This section has been completed as 50% medium, and 50% 
long term. So for Mr Is score the fund choices should have been 50% in the Tuscan (low 
risk) fund and 50% in Doric (now  Growth fund) which is long term and medium risk, with 
no more than 60% equities.  But presumably because Mr I had already invested  his 
inheritance in the Tuscan fund, the 2014  suitability  letter said You wish to consider part of 
your pension requiring  growth for the very long term ie more than 15 years and the rest to be 
required to grow over the long term. This was given as the reason to invest  half in the 
Stirling House Growth fund and half in the Stirling House Dynamic fund which includes 
global equities. It says it may include exposure to alternatives such  as commodities, loans, 
hedge funds, private equity and property  which I dont think Mr I would consider to be 
ecological or ethical, and which the report admits may be expected to have a relatively high 
level of volatility. I agree with the investor this recommendation didnt reflect Mr Is recorded 
ATR of medium and investing for the long or very long term wasnt appropriate  for someone 
of 64, who intended to retire in six years. 
Stirling says the questionnaire is just a starting point and the investment strategy  was agreed 
with Mr I, following discussions in which he said he was happy with a higher exposure to 
equities to achieve greater growth  to cover  future  income withdrawals.  But while I accept  he 
may have  wished to maximise investment growth  given his short  time to retirement,  Im not 
satisfied he had indicated  his willingness to accept greater risk, given he wanted  reduced 
volatility and his age meant he had limited  capacity for loss.  So I dont believe theres a 
sound basis for the reports conclusion that the combination of a new manager and 
investment platform  would lead to a more financially secure retirement  for Mr I.
Stirling says Mr Is main  concern was an ethical  investment strategy  and charges were  not 
the main driver. And while he originally intended retiring  at 70 which the earlier  fact find 
recorded as very important he later said he didnt intend retiring  until 75 so illustrations 
were provided based on both 70 and 75. Regardless  of this, given his age and employment  
situation I dont  think investments  for up to 20 years  were suitable. And although it couldnt 
have been known by Stirling at the time of the advice in 2014, Mr Is representative has 
advised he actually  ceased working  in 2016  aged  65 and is currently drawing £150  per 
month from the SIPP. 
So despite  his strongly expressed preference for ethical  investments, Stirlings responsibility 
was to protect the security of Mr Is retirement savings by recommending  investments 
Ref: DRN91744234suitable for his age and ATR. And Im not persuaded this could only be achieved  by 
transferring his SIPP. 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr I should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if hed been given suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr I would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr I's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr I fairly,  Stirling House Financial Services  Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr I's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable. 
If there  is a loss, Stirling should pay into Mr I's SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. 
If Stirling is unable to pay the total amount into Mr I's SIPP,  it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise  have  been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr I's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected  retirement age. 
For example, if Mr I is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr I would have been able to 
take a tax-free  lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Stirling deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr I how much has been  taken off. Stirling  should  give Mr I a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPstill exists50% FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income Total 
Return Index
50% Average 
return from date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
Ref: DRN91744235UK fixed rate 
bondswithin  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Whether there is a loss or not, Stirling should also pay Mr I £150  for the disruption and 
uncertainty caused to his retirement planning. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Stirling  House Financial  Services Limited  should  pay Mr I redress as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9174423