K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, has complained about  delay  by Santander  UK Plc in dealing  with its 
application to open a current  account.  The complaint has been brought  on Ss behalf by its 
director, Miss R.
background
S applied  to open a current account  with Santander  in March 2018.  The application was 
referred to Santanders  underwriters who queried  why the nature of Ss business as stated 
on the application was not the same  as the nature of business recorded at Companies 
House. This resulted in a delay in processing  the application.
Miss R complained to Santander about the delay. It accepted its underwriter had caused a 
delay of one day. It also admitted Miss R had been  incorrectly told it would contact her 
regarding the nature of business. It said it should  have  told her to amend the records at 
Companies House  and inform it when this had been completed.  It sent her a cheque for £30 
as compensation  for its failure to provide a high level of customer  service.
Miss R wasnt  happy with Santanders response and referred Ss complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Santanders 
error had delayed the application by about  two weeks and the compensation of £30 was 
appropriate.
Miss R didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The primary reason why Ss application for a current account couldnt  be processed 
immediately was that the nature of business  shown on the application  didnt match the 
nature of business  recorded at Companies  House. This was something that was outside  
Santanders control and it cant be held responsible for all the delays resulting from it.
Ive seen Santanders timeline of events relating to the application. Its apparent that 
Santander could  have notified Miss R about the problem  earlier  than it did and it could have 
made it clearer to her what action she needed  to take so the application could proceed.  But I 
think the application could still have been completed  within a reasonable time if Miss R had 
made the necessary changes to Ss records at Companies House  and Im not persuaded 
Santander caused S any financial loss.
In all the circumstances, Im not satisfied I could reasonably require Santander to pay S 
compensation in addition  to the £30 its already paid.
Ref: DRN96876092my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final response  is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no 
award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9687609