K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) declined his claim brought  under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He wants compensation for the extra costs he says he 
incurred when the merchant failed to keep to the terms of their agreement.
background
Mr K tells us he purchased an item of glass and arranged  on 8 September 2017 for a third 
party company Ill call N to re-crate  and send it on to him from abroad.  He says he paid for 
this service using his Halifax credit card and the cost was just under £700 in sterling.  
Mr K says an additional part of the service he paid for was that N was to arrange for stickers  
to be attached to the crate  to indicate it was fragile. And it was to be delivered  to his home 
address within  3 - 5 days. Mr K tells us the item was not dispatched in the relevant time 
period - and it wasnt delivered to his home address. He said hes been  forced  to pay 
another company to clear  it at the airport. Mr K says this has cost him an extra  £195  
(including customs duty). He says the item was delayed for about five weeks and when he 
collected it from the airport he says he noted the fragile signs  had not been  attached.
Halifax told us the service Mr K had paid for meant  the goods would be delivered  to the 
airport. And that there was no guarantee regarding delivery times. It didnt think  thered been  
any breach of contract by the merchant.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He initially  thought that Mr K 
should receive £195.36 - being the costs incurred in collection from the airport.  And £150 in 
addition as Mr K had not received the full service hed paid for. However  he later revised that 
opinion and said the cost estimate  given by N on 8 September said it did not include 
customs clearance or duties.  So he wouldnt  be asking Halifax  to refund this.
Mr K didnt agree and said as a minimum he should  receive half the original cost together 
with full customs clearance costs. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr K didnt  receive the service he expected and I can see hes experienced a 
degree of frustration as to whats happened.
I should explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And 
relevant law here is section 75.
Section 75 says that in limited circumstances - where theres been a breach of contract  
and/or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  and/or services - the consumer has a 
like claim against the supplier of finance.
As Mr Ks complaint is against  Halifax Im required to decide if Halifax  has dealt with his 
claim fairly - Im not deciding on the merits of the underlying claim which  Mr K might  have  
against N. 
Ref: DRN91156982Were an evidence  based  service  which  means we dont just listen to what the parties  tell us, 
we also look to documentary and other  evidence  to help us reach our conclusions. And 
where evidence  is unclear,  incomplete  or contradictory - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.
The essence  of Mr Ks complaint is that N was in breach of contract by reason of not 
dispatching the item he ordered in the relevant time frame and causing delivery to be 
delayed for around  five weeks.  In addition he says the agreement  included  customs 
clearance and delivery to his home  address.
Theres clearly  a factual dispute  about  the nature of the service which  N was paid to supply. 
Mr K says he phoned N on 7 September and spoke with its representative, who Ill refer to 
as R. Ive not got a recording of that conversation  although Mr K says it related to the order 
which he eventually placed.  I accept this as Ive seen  an email from R, dated  8 September,  
in which  an estimate is provided.  That estimate  is quoted as 859.19  and whilst the currency  
is not specified this is not an area of dispute. Mr K subsequently paid 900 currency  units. 
The email  clearly says of the estimate  It does not include customs  clearance  or duties.
The same email also states: All residential  shipments, unless otherwise stated, provide for 
curbside delivery. 
Ive also seen a document  which is entitled  Universal Shipping Agreement  and Release. 
The document contains a number of pre-printed sections one of which says:
Ship Via: the Deferred Air option is ticked.
Another section  is headed:
Special Destination Services: the residential option  is ticked. 
Mr Ks address home  address appears at the top of the document.
I do not doubt Mr K when  he gave his recollection and understanding  of what was agreed in 
the phone  call. But misunderstandings  occur  and it seems to me the most probable 
explanation is that the two parties  each thought they knew what  had been agreed.  But 
unfortunately their thoughts did not coincide.
Based on the documentary evidence I think it more probable than not than that the contract  
was for the deferred air option with delivery to Mr Ks home address. But that option  did not 
include the payment  of fees relating to customs clearance and duties - which  remained the 
responsibility of Mr K to pay.
Ref: DRN91156983Im aware Mr K also complains about the delay and the failure to place fragile  stickers on 
the crate. Ive seen nothing that refers to the contract as being one where time was of the 
essence. Nor have  I seen  persuasive evidence that the term deferred  air option bears a 
specific meaning in relation  to time limits.  Ive looked at various  different sites of companies 
which provide air freight services. Whilst time estimates vary - and there  are some within  the 
3-5 day range referred to by Mr K - Im not aware of this limit being imported as a contractual 
term. And even if it could be shown there was a time limit - Ive not seen evidence  that the 
delay in this case  resulted  in financial loss. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax  to 
take the view that it could  not ask the merchant to compensate for this aspect.
Equally, theres  no breakdown to show how the 900 currency  units which  Mr K paid was 
comprised. The original  estimate did say the actual cost would be dependent upon the actual 
weight and dimension of the shipment. So whilst  the additional  cost above estimate might be 
the charge for the fragile stickers  - as Mr K asserts  - it might also be for other items.
As it happens I dont  think it makes  any difference to the amount of redress  Im going  to 
recommend. Based  on my findings I think Mr K is entitled to be compensated only for the 
item not being  delivered to his home  address. But his home address is within  a few miles of 
the airport where the item was delivered.  I understand  an additional charge of £35 was 
intimated by N but Mr K decided to collect the item himself.
The remedy  for a breach  of contract is to put the party not in breach back to the position they 
would have been in other than for the breach or to compensate for actual loss. The goods 
were transported from abroad and to an airport local to Mr K. So the contract was 
substantially completed.  
I think the £150 suggested  by the investigator  - which Halifax  has indicated it accepts - is 
more than sufficient  to cover any actual  loss incurred  by Mr K in collecting the goods. And 
whilst Im not making a specific  award in respect of the extra charge made above the 
estimate, it would in any event also easily be covered by this figure.  So even if I had thought  
thered been a breach  of contract in relation  to the crate and/or fragile labelling  - and I do 
not think there was - it would not have  increased the award  above  this figure.
In summary,  I think Halifax should have  accepted  Mr Ks claim in part. But as its now offered  
to refund him £150  I think  that is a fair and reasonable  outcome. And I shant ask it to do 
anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  - but only in 
part.
Im ordering  Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr K £150  plus simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
cent per year from date of payment (8 September 2017)  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9115698