K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, represented by her son, believes that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(Legal and General) is offering her an incorrect amount  as a spouses pension.  Her late 
husband told her she would get 50% and she thinks that the paperwork supplied by Legal 
and General supports this.
background
In 2012 the late Mr C had a personal pension held with another pension  provider.  He chose 
to take up an annuity  service  provided by an arm of the SAGA  business  who specialise in 
over 50s insurance. It had a tied relationship with Legal and General with regards to its 
pension business.  
In February 2012,  Mr C completed forms provided  to take his tax-free cash  with his existing 
provider and transfer the rest of his pension pot on the open market option to Legal and 
General. Mr Cs pension  pot was split into three  parts,  two parts  were  Non-Protected  Rights  
and the third Protected Rights.
A week or so later Mr C received a letter about  purchasing his annuity  with Legal and 
General from SAGA. In this letter it asked him to check the quotation  he had previously been 
sent and to make sure the annuity  options shown are what he had requested. It said if you 
decide to change the basis  of the quotation, the annuity amounts will differ and may be 
lower. It also said he had 30 days from the date of this letter to change his mind otherwise 
the annuity would start and it couldnt be cancelled after this. 
Mr C responded to send  his acceptance to the annuity on 7 March  2012. In this letter  he 
referred to a letter dated 6 March 2012  and confirmed he accepted  the terms provided in the 
illustration attached.
In 2019 sadly  Mr C passed away and Mrs C got in touch with Legal  and General to inform 
them. After  this she received a letter  stating  her entitlement to the spouses annuity but this 
was much lower than she expected. Mrs C raised  a complaint as she said Mr C had told her 
she would  receive  half of the annuity. However,  Legal and General said she was only 
entitled to 50% of part of the pension, the Protected  Rights. Legal  and General sent Mrs C 
paperwork it said showed that this was in line with the agreement  it had with Mr C. But Mrs C 
said that the paperwork didnt say anywhere  that this 50% only applied to the Protected  
Rights.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but he didnt think  it should be upheld.  He got in 
contact with SAGA and the previous provider of Mr Cs pension  to try to get some more  
information. He said based on the values offered by the previous provider it looked like Mr C 
had taken an annuity without a joint life attached.  Because had he chosen to have a 50% 
spouses pension,  the annuity  he wouldve  received  wouldve  been  lower. He also said he 
didnt think Legal  and General were responsible for the choices  Mr C made. And that Legal 
and General had administered  the pension in line with the instructions  it was given.
Mrs C representative responded to say that on the paperwork received from Legal and 
General it says Mrs C would receive  50% of the annuity. And so Mr C had been  led to 
believe that the annuity would be paid to Mrs C on a 50% basis  in the event of his death. 
Ref: DRN91763832They also pointed out that Legal and General and the investigator had agreed that the 
annuity paperwork was unclear. And if its unclear to those working in the industry,  its clear  
that Mr C wouldve thought that the 50% was payable to his wife for the whole annuity.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide here, is ultimately  whether Mrs C is receiving her correct  entitlement  
from Legal and General.
Mrs C also says that if the policy was only set up to pay the Protected Rights as a spouses  
pension, then Mr C was misled in the annuity paperwork to believe that the whole annuity 
would benefit  from a spouses pension.
Starting at the crux of this case,  Ive considered whether Mrs C is receiving the correct 
entitlement from the annuity set up for Mr C. This wouldve  been  an easier matter to answer  
had all the information from the time been available. Unfortunately, some  key bits of 
information are missing and I think Legal  and General couldve been clearer in its 
explanations to Mrs C. 
It has relied largely on a single document as proof that Mr Cs annuity only provides a 50% 
spouses pension  for the Protected Rights. However, without context and further  explanation,  
this paperwork is ambiguous and on its own without explanation it isnt helpful  in answering 
Mrs Cs complaint.
The information Legal and General have relied  upon, is a two page annuity schedule  (titled 
in bold at the top of both pages as PENSION ANNUITY: NON PROFIT) drawn up when Mr 
Cs pension pot was transferred and the annuities setup.  It states the annuity values 
separately for the Non-Protected  and Protected Rights  and refers  to a separate policy  
provisions booklet  which it was unable to provide. Page one lists the Non-Protected and 
Protected Rights in that order  and under separate bolded headings. Page two doesnt  have 
a new heading  but it lists the dependent annuity:
Dependant's Annuity: 50,00% of your annuity payable to your wife, husband  or Registered Civil 
Partner at the date of your death, Payment will commence at the later of the end of the Guaranteed  
Minimum Payment Period and the next Annuity Instalment Date after your death. Payment  of the 
Dependant's annuity  is subject to the conditions  set out in the policy  provision headed 'Pension for 
Dependant'
Legal and General has relied largely on this paperwork as proof that the Dependants 
annuity only applies to the Protected Rights because it thinks its clear that the above  is a 
continuation of page one and falls under the heading Protected Rights.
My view having looked at the document, is that it is intended to show that the Dependents 
Pension is attached  to the Protected Rights only. I think it has to be remembered that we 
are looking  at copies  of the separate pages  and not how it originally  wouldve  been 
presented  as one document.  But in any event the wording  and presentation of the 
document couldve been a lot clearer. And I dont think Legal and General shouldve  relied  
on this with little explanation in its initial response to Mrs C. It also said the quotation  
number quoted on the documentation, was a quotation with only 50% attached to the 
Ref: DRN91763833Protected Rights but it provided  no explanation  or evidence of this. I can see why it 
wouldnt have provided Mrs C with any confidence  that this was definitely the case. 
But when you analyse the other information available, (including  the information  the 
investigator was able to get from the other parties  involved)  a more comprehensive picture of 
what likely  happened appears.
Mr C used the SAGA annuity service which was in partnership with Legal  and General. 
Before SAGA arranged  the transfer  for Mr C, he wouldve received quotes and illustrations 
from his existing provider  and Legal  and General  to compare.  
Unfortunately the earlier quotations and illustrations that Mr C wouldve received are missing  
from the information weve been able to attain. But we do have a copy of the retirement 
forms from the existing provider which were completed by Mr C to transfer the money to 
Legal and General. 
This includes the illustrations of what Mr C could  select to take his benefits with the existing  
provider. Both the Non-Protected Rights parts are illustrated  based  on no spouses pension. 
Whilst the Protected Rights is shown to have  a spouses pension  of 50% attached,  as is 
required under  Protected Rights. 
The basis  of the illustrations shown on the retirement forms, is likely to be the same as the 
illustration Mr C had based  his choices on. As it wouldnt make sense for the existing 
provider to have  provided illustrations on a different basis  to what  Mr C had previously 
requested. And this basis is also highly likely  to be the same  basis  that the illustrations were 
provided on from Legal and General. I say this as to compare like with like, the illustrations 
need to be on the same basis. And SAGA wouldve known this when it produced  illustrations 
to Mr C.
Mr C chose to take the open market option and he then received the letter from SAGA  which 
referred to the annuity options  hed chosen  and to check that this was correct as they were  
due to go into payment.  Mr C responded to say that he agreed to the illustration but referred 
to another letter, received after the initial  one from SAGA which  hasnt been found.  On the 
balance of probabilities, I think this was most  likely a chaser letter sent by SAGA.
Then Mr C wouldve received confirmation  of the annuity setup alongside accompanying 
information and the annuity schedule referred  to above if he hadnt  already. I can see the 
policy commencement date is listed as 20 February  on the annuity schedule,  which  is the 
same date as the letter asking  Mr C to check  his options. So its possible that the annuity 
schedule was attached to this letter.
There are gaps in the information that we have, and I can see that Mr Cs quotation with the 
existing provider was to have the money paid monthly  in advance but with Legal  and 
General it was setup  as payable monthly in arrears. I cant  be certain  that in between  
completing the retirement forms  and confirming his options with SAGA,  that Mr C didnt 
change his mind, get new quotations and chose a new basis with a spouses pension  
attached to the whole annuity. But on the balance of probabilities, I think this is unlikely for a 
number of reasons:
The illustrations  for the Non-Protected  Rights had been provided on a single life basis  by 
the existing provider  no spouses pension. The illustration basis  would likely have been 
Ref: DRN91763834chosen by Mr C. And if he was unhappy  with this basis, he could have asked for new 
illustrations
It appears Mr C made his choice  to go to Legal  and General on this illustration  basis  
Legal and General  has no record of Mr C requesting a change  of basis.
The value of the annuity setup by Legal  and General correlates approximately  with the 
values illustrated by the previous provider
Had Mr C instead chose to have a spouses  pension applied to the Non-Protected  Rights  
this wouldve  been more expensive and the annuity amounts  provided  noticeably lower. 
This isnt the case.
Legal and Generals  job was to setup the annuity based on the instructions it received. It 
set up the Non-Protected Rights as paid on a single life basis  without a spouses pension
If Mr C had in fact chosen to take a joint life basis, the only way this could be explained is 
that Legal and General made a mistake in setting up the annuity on the wrong basis. 
Whilst mistakes do happen, its more likely that it was setup in line with the instructions it 
received.
At the time Mr C confirmed hed checked his annuity options. He referred to the enclosed  
illustration from SAGA  and said he accepted this. This wouldve  then been  passed to the 
relevant area in Legal and General to set up 
The annuity schedule  whilst not particularly clear, appears to list the Dependant 
(spouses) pension  as only relating  to the Protected Rights. Legal and General says its 
records show the quotation number as having  a spouses pension attached only to the 
Protected Rights.
The existing  provider  quoting monthly in advance payments and Legal and General 
setting it up as monthly in arrears isnt necessarily indicative  of any change  requested  by 
Mr C. Its a very minor  change to how the annuity is paid and would make  a barely 
noticeable difference in terms of the value. This may be different  for a number of reasons 
other than Mr C actively asking for this to be altered.
The alternative is that Mr C did request a change of payment basis to monthly in arrears.  
But this doesnt  support  that a spouses pension was also requested. Because if Legal 
and General were  attentive enough in their administration  to make the change to paid in 
arrears it would follow that it would notice the much more important aspect  of the 
spouses pension  requested.
So based  on the evidence, Im satisfied  that Mr Cs pension was set up as hed requested 
and that the correct spouses entitlement is 50% of the Protected Rights.
In terms of whether  Legal and General had misled Mr C in the annuity schedule,  as I 
previously discussed  it isnt as clear  as it could be. However, Mr C wouldnt have  just relied 
on this document  and the schedule also referred  to a policy booklet to be read in 
conjunction. Mr C would  have also received  a confirmation letter that the annuity  was in 
payment. The process in choosing an annuity, included selecting  and receiving quotations 
that wouldve  stated  the annuity  basis. Mr C chose  an annuity basis and agreed to the 
annuity options confirmed by SAGA. So before the annuity schedule was drawn  up Mr C 
wouldve known the annuity basis hed selected.  He wouldnt have been reliant purely on 
that document as this was confirmation  of the choices  hed already  made.
I appreciate that pensions  terminology  isnt always easy to understand and its possible that 
Mr C hadnt fully understood what  hed chosen. But selecting a spouses pension  isnt a case 
of a simple choice of whether to provide for a spouse, as it will lower the annuity amount 
received. And depending on circumstances and the values involved for some  people a single 
life annuity will be more  suitable. Whilst Mr C may have thought 50% of the whole pension 
would be paid as a spouses  pension,  I dont think Legal and General can be held 
Ref: DRN91763835responsible for this. Legal and Generals responsibility was to administer the pension in line 
with the instructions it received, and the evidence supports  that it has done this.
In terms of the other information Mr C was provided  about transferring and the organising  of 
quotations it appears that this was carried out by SAGA and so this was its responsibility.
I can understand why Mrs C wouldve thought that 50% was due on all the pension  based on 
just on the annuity schedule alone.  I think Legal  and General couldve handled the complaint 
better in terms of its responses  and the customer service it provided. But its not within  our 
remit to punish  or make  awards for poor complaint  handling.
I appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached  but I do think the 
evidence shows that 50% of the Protected  Rights is her fair entitlement  under the annuity.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9176383