K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited has declined  a claim 
made under a term assurance policy and cancelled  his cover.
Background
Mr W took out a decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness  cover  which  started in
December 2015.
In June 2018 Mr W submitted a claim for critical illness benefit (under the total and 
permanently disability definition  - TPD) due to chronic fatigue  syndrome  (CFS) and 
fibromyalgia.
After reviewing the medical  information provided by Mr Ws doctors,  Legal  & General 
declined the claim  and cancelled the policy from inception. It provided a refund of the 
premiums Mr W had paid.  This was because it thought Mr W hadnt answered  questions in 
his application  form correctly about his state of health. It said it was permitted to take this 
action under the relevant  law on misrepresentation.
Mr W complained  saying  hed answered all of the questions  honestly. He also said Legal & 
General had accessed his medical  records but decided not to take any action when he 
applied for the policy. So, he didnt think it was fair for it to raise  these issues now.  Mr W also 
said the medical conditions Legal  & General had raised didnt  relate to his current  illness. 
Legal & General didnt change its decision so Mr W referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Mr W needed to answer a number 
of questions in the application  form differently, including whether hed ever been  advised to 
reduce his alcohol consumption and whether hed ever been  admitted to hospital overnight.  
So, he thought  there had been a misrepresentation. The investigator  thought  Legal  & 
Generals categorisation of the misrepresentation as reckless was unreasonable, but noted  
that this didnt result in a different outcome under  the relevant law. This was because Legal  
& General wouldnt have  been able to offer him any cover at all if it had known about his full 
medical history. The investigator was also satisfied Legal & General hadnt  accessed his 
medical records before he made the claim  in 2018. So, he thought the decision to decline 
the claim and cancel the policy was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said Legal  & General had gone fishing through  his medical  records  
to look for past medical problems that werent relevant to his claim. He also maintained  that 
he didnt need  to answer the application  questions  differently and still believed Legal & 
General had accessed his medical  records when he applied for the policy  as it had added  an 
exclusion for blindness.  He didnt accept this could have been done without seeking  further  
information.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Ref: DRN97743002Like the investigator, I dont think Mr W intentionally set out to mislead  Legal  & General  
I can see he made a number of disclosures  and I think the questions he answered 
incorrectly were  most likely an oversight.  But I do think  he was asked clear questions  in the 
application form which he should have answered differently. And overall, Im satisfied  that 
Legal & General has acted fairly by declining the claim  and cancelling  the policy.  I will 
explain how I reached this decision below.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question. If the consumer doesnt take 
reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the remedies available to the 
insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
The application Mr W submitted on 25 November 2015 asked the following  questions:
Have you ever been  told by a health professional  that you should reduce the amount of 
alcohol you were drinking  because you were drinking too much?
Have you ever:
been admitted  overnight to hospital or referred to a psychiatrist for mental  illness,  
anorexia or bulimia?
There are other questions Legal & General say Mr W should have answered differently,  but 
Ive chosen to focus on these two as they have had the greatest impact  on Mr Ws 
application.
The questions in the application form Mr W completed were  clear and the importance of 
answering them truthfully and accurately was highlighted. It said if he didnt it could mean  a 
claim might not be paid. It also said if Mr W was unsure about whether to tell 
Legal & General about a medical condition, he should tell it anyway. So, I think 
Legal & General brought to Mr Ws attention the need to answer  the questions fully and 
accurately, and the consequences if he didnt do so. Mr W answered, no to the above  
questions.
According to the medical evidence Ive seen, Mr W was told to either reduce his alcohol 
consumption or cut alcohol out completely on three occasions  between  March 2008  and 
January 2010.  Mr W says on these occasions  although he was told to reduce the amount he 
was drinking, it wasnt because he was drinking  too much.  Instead  he says he was told to 
reduce or stop drinking  alcohol because it was having an impact  on his mood.
I can see that at the times where  Mr W was told to reduce or cut out alcohol, he was also 
struggling with his mental health and the impact of alcohol excess  on his mood  was 
discussed. But the notes within the medical  records are brief and dont necessarily set out in 
detail everything  that was discussed. I also dont think its likely  the advice to reduce or cut 
alcohol out completely was solely  because  of the impact it was having on Mr Ws mood.
Ref: DRN97743003I say this because  when Mr W saw a psychiatrist  following his overdose in 2008, the 
psychiatrist noted in his letter of 11 March 2008 he was consuming an average  of 40  50 
units per week  at the time. I think Mr W understood this was too much as he described it as 
binge drinking and the letter shows he was keen to stop.  Ive also seen a letter  from Mr Ws 
GP from August 2008, where the GP referred Mr W to a psychiatrist.  In the letter  the GP 
referred to Mr Ws alcohol excess, which he said Mr W accepted  was unhelpful.  Mr Ws GP 
also recorded that hed diagnosed him with non-dependent alcohol abuse  in January 2010. 
So, I think its most likely that Mr W understood that he was drinking too much and that the 
advice to reduce  his drinking for this reason, as well as because  of the impact it was having  
on his mood.  So, on balance, I think he shouldve answered, yes to the first question.
Mr Ws medical records show that he took an overdose in March 2008  for which  he was 
admitted to hospital  overnight. Mr W says he shouldnt have been expected  to disclose this 
because it was an impulsive overdose. He believes Legal & General has assumed this was 
related to his mental health, which isnt a fair assumption.  While the evidence shows  Mr W 
spoke to a psychiatrist  at the hospital  before  he was discharged, he says he didnt know he 
was speaking to a psychiatrist. So, he doesnt  think this incident  is caught by the second 
question Ive set out above.
Ive considered Mr Ws points carefully, but I think he may have misinterpreted the question.  
Mr W needed to answer  the question, yes if hed ever been admitted to hospital overnight. 
The question doesnt stipulate that the admission has to be for a particular reason. So, it 
doesnt matter  why Mr W was admitted to hospital  or which  doctor he saw, he still needed to 
tell Legal & General about it. For this reason, I think Mr W shouldve  answered, yes to the 
second question.
Following the application  being  received  Legal & General sent a copy of it to Mr W with a 
Checking Your Details form on 25 November 2015.  The covering letter  contained the 
following warning:
If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may 
mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. In the event of a claim 
we may request  a report from your doctor to support your application answers. Please tell us 
straight away if you need to change any of your answers before your policy starts. Please 
read the personal details'  document  carefully.
On 1 December  2015 Mr W signed  and returned  this form confirming that all details within  
the application form were  correct. So, Im satisfied Mr W had a further opportunity  to ensure 
the answers he gave  were correct. And as Ive said above, I think Mr W needed to answer  
two questions differently.  Legal & General has told us this information wouldve made a 
difference to his application being  accepted.
What would Legal & General have  done differently?
Legal & General categorised Mr Ws misrepresentation as deliberate  or reckless. Under
CIDRA, this would allow it to cancel  the policy and keep the premiums paid. But in this case,
Legal & General has returned  the premiums paid. This would be the remedy  available to
Legal & General if it had categorised the misrepresentation as careless. Ive considered 
whether this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
On balance, I think its fair to categorise the misrepresentations as careless. This is because 
although Mr W didnt answer  questions correctly, I can see why he may have felt these 
Ref: DRN97743004issues werent relevant,  particularly as they had occurred more than five years before the 
policy started. And given he made  several other disclosures, I dont think  I can say he didnt  
take any care at all, which is how I would interpret a reckless misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA, when  its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the 
insurer can take whatever  action it would have taken if the correct  answer  been given at the 
point of application. Legal & General has shown us that if it had known Mr W had been 
admitted overnight  following an overdose it would have rated his life cover  and declined to 
offer any cover  for TPD. This alone would justify Mr Ws claim  for TPD being declined as he 
wouldnt have ever had this cover in place.
More importantly, Legal & General  has also shown  us that if it had known Mr W had been 
advised to reduce his alcohol consumption, it would have  requested  his medical records.  
This would have shown he had undergone a liver function test, the results of which  were  
abnormal and were  suggestive of liver damage. It wouldve  also shown he had suffered with 
depression in 2010 and 2011 and had taken time off work in 2012 and 2013  for problems 
with his shoulder and back  pain.
Legal & General has said that the combination of the medical  conditions  would have resulted 
in its underwriters declining  the application altogether. Im persuaded that this is how Legal & 
General would have treated Mr Ws application at the time had it known all of the relevant 
information. So, I think the decision to decline the claim was reasonable as no cover  would 
have been in place at the time Mr W claimed.  I also think its fair to cancel the policy  and 
return the premiums as the policy would never  have  gone ahead.
Mr W believes Legal & General had sight of his medical records  in 2015 and chose not to act 
on the information available to it. I know Mr W believes that Legal & General must  have  
requested medical  information in order to place  an exclusion on his policy. But it isnt 
unusual for a business to place an exclusion,  or decline  cover altogether,  based  on the 
information provided in the application  form. And Im satisfied that in this case, Legal & 
General didnt request any information from Mr Ws GP at the time.  
Mr W has also provided us with a letter which he says led him to believe that Legal  & 
General would request his medical records from his GP. Ive seen  a copy  of this letter, and 
I agree  it seems to suggest that Legal & General  would use Mr Ws medical records  to 
assess his application,  although it later clarifies  in the letter that it may  need  a copy of his 
medical records. But in any event, this letter was sent to Mr W after he submitted the 
application form, so I dont think he couldve reasonably believed he didnt need to provide 
accurate answers  when  he completed  it. Furthermore the checking your details form, which 
he signed, emphasised that the answers  provided needed to be accurate  and the 
consequences if they werent.  So, overall, I dont think the wording of the letter excused 
Mr W from making full and accurate  disclosures  to Legal & General in his application form. 
Fishing
Mr W has complained that Legal  & General went fishing for information  in order to find a 
reason to decline the claim. He says this because the conditions and incidents that Legal & 
General say would  have  led it to decline the application arent  related to his current  illness.
Ive reviewed the first request for information  made by Legal  & General and Im satisfied  that 
it was reasonable.  When Mr W first made the claim, he indicated that hed been 
experiencing symptoms  for up to two and a half years. This wouldve placed  his symptoms 
Ref: DRN97743005starting around the time he applied for the policy. As Mr W hadnt disclosed any of these 
symptoms in his application form, Legal & General requested his medical records from 2015. 
I think it was reasonable  for it to do so as it had grounds to suspect that Mr W might not have 
told it about symptoms  relating  to his current illness that he had before the policy  started. But 
even if it didnt have  grounds to suspect this, I would expect any illness  giving rise to a claim 
for TPD to have been present for a number  of years  making a claim for permanent  
disability is usually the last resort. The insurer would need  to understand how this had 
manifested and treated over the years in order to understand whether there was any 
likelihood of improvement.  So, with this in mind, I dont think  requesting medical records  from 
2015 was unreasonable.
Within the records  initially provided, Legal  & General received information which referred to 
pre-existing medical conditions including non-dependent alcohol abuse and low mood in 
January 2010  and suicide  / self-inflicted poisoning in February 2008. So, I dont think  Legal  & 
General went fishing for this information.  Instead,  it was received as part of a reasonable 
request to consider the claim. And having  received this information I think it was fair to make 
further requests  for information  to establish whether it ought to have  been  told about  these 
conditions when Mr W applied for the policy. 
I appreciate my decision leaves Mr W in a difficult position as he was counting  on the 
insurance to help in these  circumstances. Im sorry to disappoint him, but overall,  I dont 
think hes been treated  unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774300