K820x#14complaint
The executors of the late Mrs B have complained that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) 
has only partially settled  their claim under Mrs Bs travel insurance policy following her death  
whilst abroad.
background
In February 2018,  whilst on a trip abroad, Mrs B very sadly died whilst  swimming. It appears 
that she suffered  a heart attack. Her funeral took place locally and a small number of family 
members travelled there for the event.
After a Grant of Probate  was made on 13 November 2018, Mrs Bs executors made a claim 
under Mrs Bs travel policy with ERV for the funeral costs incurred locally  (£1,533)  and for 
the travel  and other expenses of the five family members who travelled to attend her funeral 
(£4,757). They also sought to claim for death  benefit  payable under the policy,  and for a pro 
rata refund of her insurance premium.  
ERV settled the claim for £2,311.21. Its explained that this comprised the funeral costs in full 
in accordance with section 2 of the policy (£1,531.96 after deduction of the policy  excess),  
and £779.25 for the cost of a single family  member  to travel  to the funeral. It rejected the 
executors claim for payment of death benefit. It says that this benefit is only payable  under 
the Personal  Accident  section of the policy (section 7) which states:
We will pay to you or your legal personal  representatives if you suffer  accidental  
bodily injury during  the trip, which  within 12 months  is the sole and direct cause of
death or disablement, one of the following benefits:
ERV says that death benefit is therefore only payable if death is caused  by an accidental 
bodily injury. This wasnt the case with Mrs B. It hasnt addressed the request for a pro-rata 
refund of the policy premium Mrs B paid.
The executors werent satisfied with the fact that ERV hadnt provided the full settlement that 
they believe they shouldve received, and so they brought  their complaint to this service. 
They argue that because  Mrs Bs policy was comprehensive, the death benefit  payment 
provided for in section  7 applies generally  throughout  the policy.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and was of the view that ERV had acted in 
accordance with the terms  of the policy. The executors have asked that their complaint also 
be considered  by an ombudsman. Its therefore  been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold this complaint and 
Ill explain  why not.
Firstly, Id like to extend my condolences to Mrs Bs family for their loss in such  
circumstances. And I appreciate that having to deal with matters such as this only causes 
more upset.
Ref: DRN95227952Ive looked closely  at Mrs Bs policy and the only sections that relate  to death abroad other 
than section 7 (death following accidental  injury),  are sections 2(a) (Curtailment) and section 
3(a) (Emergency Medical and Repatriation Expenses). 
The executors have said that they incurred funeral expenses amounting  to £1,533.  ERV has 
paid £1,531.96 for funeral  expenses  (£1,596.96 less the £65 policy  excess)  in accordance 
with section 3(a) of the policy.  So Im satisfied that ERV has settled the funeral costs 
element of the executors  claim.
Im also satisfied that the death benefit referred to in section 7 is only payable  in the 
circumstances that section 7 covers, namely where personal injury leading  to death has 
occurred. I dont agree that the fact that Mrs Bs policy was a comprehensive one enables  
death benefit to apply  beyond section 7.
Turning to the travel expenses claimed,  whilst the policy does cover the cost of a relatives 
travel to assist a policyholder whos become ill abroad (section 3a (f) (iii)), theres no similar 
provision in the case of a policyholders death. So the payment of £779.25 ERV has made 
was without any obligation on its part to do so. I couldnt have required it to make  this 
payment, and so I cant require it to increase it to extend to more  family members.
As for the pro rata refund of premium,  as a matter of general policy, insurers might  refund a 
premium pro rata if no claim  has been  made. But if a claim has been made, theres  no 
entitlement to a pro rata refund. So I cant require ERV to make any such payment.
Ive mentioned section  2(a) of the policy above. This states:
What is covered:
We will pay up to £500 for Basic cover (unless you have purchased the optional 
£1,000/£3,000 add on) or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover (up to £15,000 may be 
available, please  see the table of benefits  for details) for your non-refundable deposits 
and amounts you have  paid (or you have  contracted to pay), for your travel and 
accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £300 for Basic  cover and £350 for 
Comprehensive cover)  which  you do not use because of your inability to complete the 
trip due to:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion  
or any person  with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
So whilst Im not able to uphold the executors complaint, I can suggest  that they contact 
ERV and refer it to this section of the policy if there are any sums  that Mrs B paid for travel  
and accommodation  which  sadly she wasnt  able to use and that were non-refundable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding the executors complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
the late Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Ref: DRN95227953Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9522795