K820x#14complaint
Mr Z says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1996 Mr Z took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS),  trading as Halifax. He 
also bought a monthly premium PPI policy, which would pay a benefit of £500  a month if he 
was off work  ill or injured or lost his job. 
BoSs records show the mortgage was paid off, and the PPI cancelled,  in 2007. But Mr Z 
complains that the policy had been mis-sold back in 1996. Among other things, he says the 
PPI was added without his knowledge, and he feels he didnt really need it.
Our adjudicators didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. But Mr Z disagrees, so its 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Zs case.
BoS thinks the PPI was sold during  a meeting  in a Halifax branch, when Mr Z applied  for his 
mortgage. From what Ive read and been told, thats  probably right.  But after so many years 
there are no notes available now to show  me what, if anything  was discussed about PPI. So 
I have to decide what I think is most likely  to have happened, based on the paperwork Ive 
been given from the sale, together with what Mr Z has been able to recall  and what BoS has 
told us about its usual sales process  at that time.
Having done that, Ive concluded on balance that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
was Mr Z given  a fair choice? 
BoS says that as part of its normal sales procedure its adviser  wouldve made Mr Z aware 
that the PPI was optional and wouldve got his consent before adding it to his account. Its 
possible the adviser didnt follow that usual process  on this occasion. Mr Z says he doesnt 
remember PPI being discussed at all and wasnt told it was being  included.  
But looking  at the paperwork  Ive been  sent, I can see that in his mortgage application - 
completed about three months before the mortgage started - there was a section dealing 
with PPI, which it called accident, sickness and unemployment insurance. The form said 
BoS recommended Mr Z to consider having  that insurance, and it had a box where he could 
sign if he wanted it. Mr Z did so, under the words  Yes, I would like to take advantage  of the 
PPI. Mr Z also signed a separate application form which was specifically for the PPI. 
So Ive carefully  considered  what  Mr Z has said. And I cant be sure exactly  what  took place 
in the meeting. But in my view the paperwork he completed and signed  made  it reasonably 
clear that he was agreeing to take out PPI and that it was a separate product from the 
mortgage itself.  And Ive seen nothing to suggest  he was put under any unfair pressure  to 
Ref: DRN99999192have the PPI. So overall,  I think Mr Z was given a choice and that he decided to have  PPI, 
even if understandably he doesnt remember that now, well over 20 years later.
was Mr Z given  good enough advice and information?
BoS says it willve recommended the PPI to Mr Z. This meant it had to check that the PPI 
would be right for him. BoSs records suggest  he was asked some  questions  to find out if he 
was eligible for it but I dont know what  steps, if any BoS took to find out about Mr Zs 
circumstances and needs. Based however on what Ive been told about  his situation at the 
time, I think the PPI was suitable for him. Mr Z wouldnt have been affected  by any of the 
main exclusions  to, or limits on, the PPI cover and as I explain below, to my mind  it couldve 
been helpful for him. So I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to recommend it.
But BoS still had to give Mr Z good enough  information about the cost, benefits and main  
features of the PPI, so he could fairly decide whether or not to take it out.
I dont know what was discussed about PPI in the meeting,  if anything, or what  written 
information Mr Z had been given about the PPI before he agreed to have it. Mr Zs PPI 
application set out the monthly cost of his policy and the benefit it would pay. But its 
possible the information hed got about the PPI wasnt  as clear or full as it shouldve  been. 
Mr Z certainly feels it wasnt. On balance, though, in my view its unlikely that having better  
information wouldve  changed his decision. I think  Mr Z would probably still have taken it out. 
Thats because from what Ive been told about his circumstances at the time, and looking at 
the likely  terms of the policy, I think Mr Z was eligible for the PPI. I dont think  he wouldve 
been affected by any of the main things  it didnt cover. I think it couldve proved to be useful 
in his situation. And Ive not been told anything to suggest it wasnt affordable for him.
Mr Z has said he wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay from his job if he was off work owing to 
injury or illness. But the PPI payments  couldve lasted for up to 12 months at a time  longer 
than hes said his full sick pay wouldve been  paid. They wouldve been paid on top of his 
sick pay, or of any redundancy payment he mightve got if hed lost his job. 
Hes told us too that he had savings which he couldve used to make his mortgage 
repayments, if he wasnt earning. And I see from the questionnaire  completed when he was 
applying for the mortgage that he told BoS he had £22,000 in a building society  account. 
The copy  Ive seen  has Deposit  written next to that figure, so it might be that at least some  
of this money was going to be used towards  the house purchase. But anyway,  to my mind 
the fact Mr Z wasnt using these savings  to reduce the amount of his borrowing suggests he 
preferred to keep  them  intact  for the future. Having PPI could help him to do that. 
Mr Z has also mentioned possible financial help from his wife and family. But circumstances 
can change over time and I dont  think that when he bought  the PPI he couldve been sure 
this help would be readily available, if and when needed. PPI provided him with more reliable 
protection and it mightve proved useful, despite  his employee benefits and savings.
In reaching my decision Ive taken  into account  that Mr Z was borrowing a large amount for 
potentially a long time,  secured on his home and (at least initially) in his sole name.  So the 
effect of not keeping up the repayments couldve  been serious for him. The PPI was paid for 
monthly, meaning it didnt  add to his borrowing or attract interest. And he could cancel it at 
any time, without further cost, if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted it. 
Ref: DRN99999193I know Mr Z feels strongly about  his complaint and has put time and effort into it. Ive thought 
carefully about everything hes told us, including in his correspondence with our adjudicators.  
I realise hell be disappointed with this outcome. But weighing up all that Ive read and been 
told, on balance  I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. So Bank of Scotland plc 
doesnt have to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9999919