K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) dealt with a 
claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
References to Assurant also refer to its agents.
background
Mr W has issues with the service  provided by his phone provider and previous claims. To be 
clear, I am only considering the latest issue that happened in April 2019 and the specific 
responsibilities of Assurant under his mobile phone insurance policy.  
Mr W made a claim under his mobile  phone insurance after his phone stopped working. He 
is unhappy with how the claim was handled,  he said his phone and the next model  up, were  
out of stock and Assurant  didnt offer him any other alternatives. He is also unhappy 
Assurant wouldnt allow him to pay extra to get the latest model  of his phone.
Assurant says Mr W called on a Sunday  when both its four hour (rapid) and next day 
service is unavailable.  It didnt have an equivalent  replacement phone available  through  its 
rapid service so it offered to arrange for a replacement phone to be delivered  to Mr W on its 
next day service - which he would have got on Tuesday.  
As Mr W had said he urgently needed a phone and wouldnt be available  on Tuesday to 
receive a delivery,  Assurant said he could go to his phone providers store and try to get an 
equivalent replacement  phone there.  Assurant  said the stock  in store was outside of its 
control and Mr Ws policy  doesnt offer the option for him to pay extra to get a latest model 
phone. Mr W was provided with a replacement phone of a different make and model by the 
store. Assurant believes it did all it could, within the limits of the policy, to replace Mr Ws 
phone as quickly as possible  and so doesnt think  it has done  anything wrong. 
Our investigator thought Assurant had dealt  with the claim reasonably,  in line with the policy 
terms and had offered  Mr W different options  to get his phone replaced  as soon as possible. 
She confirmed Assurant only needed to provide Mr W with a phone  of a similar specification  
and as such, it didnt do anything wrong  by refusing Mr W to upgrade  his phone to the latest 
model.
Mr W disagrees, he said no stock was available of his phone or the next model up and 
Assurant didnt offer him any other alternative models of phone. He doesnt feel Assurant 
fulfilled its obligations  under the policy and that it was very obstructive in dealing with his 
claim. He emphasised it was the store that eventually gave him a new phone not Assurant 
The case  has come  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to consider is whether Assurant have dealt with Mr Ws claim reasonably and in 
line with the terms  and conditions of his policy. 
Ref: DRN90018242I can confirm I have  listened to the calls Mr W had with Assurant and one of the calls the 
phone provider made in store to Assurant.
Rapid service
The policy terms say that when a claim is approved Assurant will try to deliver a phone within 
four hours. However, as you would expect, there  are limitations  on this. Rapid service was 
not available  on the day Mr W called, as it was a Sunday. 
While it was available from 8am the following morning, the fact that there  wasnt an 
alternative phone available to send to Mr W, meant the rapid service wasnt  an option  for 
him. Mr W was instead offered a replacement phone on a next  day delivery service. 
While I understand Mr W needed a phone urgently and the four hour delivery timescale  was 
important to him, due to an issue with stock it wasnt an option  available at that time. As the 
rapid service wasnt an option  Assurant  did, as I wouldve expected, and offered the next day 
delivery service.
Next day service
Assurant has explained to our service  that its rapid  service and next day service have 
different suppliers and stock levels. And it also has the option to order direct  from the phone  
providers warehouse for next day delivery.  Therefore, while  it wasnt  able to offer Mr W a 
replacement phone through  the rapid  service, it was able to offer one through  the next day 
service. 
Having listened  to the calls, I agree with Mr W that on Sunday  the agent didnt specifically 
state the model that was available  through the next day service. Assurant has since  told me 
it was the next model up to Mr Ws phone that was being referred to. But, I think the point 
here is that a phone was available to be sent to Mr W as per the policy  terms, its just that it 
wasnt convenient for him to take delivery  of it. 
Phone replacement  
Like many  mobile phone insurance policies Mr Ws policy has a term which  sets out he will 
be sent a replacement phone that is the same  or of similar specification to his current 
handset. Given  the way in which technology advances quickly, in reality  it is very difficult to 
find an alternative handset, of a different make, which exactly  matches the specification of 
the handset being  replaced. And, it is for that reason insurance providers will consider  an 
upgrade to the next model of the handset,  if the current model isnt available.
As the rapid service wasnt an option  and the next day delivery service wasnt convenient  for 
Mr W, Assurant gave Mr W the option of going to his phone providers store  and seeing  if 
they had stock of a suitable alternative phone.  
Ive listened to the call Mr W had with one of Assurants  agents on Monday morning, where 
shed called him to confirm there  was still no stock  of his phone  or an alternative,  on the 
rapid service. Ive copied below an extract from this call where Mr W asked what  his options 
were and these were explained to him:
Ref: DRN90018243So if they havent  got the stock of my specific phone or make, can they give me any other 
phone? 
They may be able to give you an upgrade, like we would, so if they havent got the S8 plus 
they may be able to give you the S9 plus, we may be able to say that to them. Errm  
otherwise it would be us trying to get you a phone tomorrow potentially, ermm but obviously 
that would  be the last resort as I understand you need a phone as quickly  as possible.
 
So basically if they havent got a 9 or whatever an upgrade, or the same  one as mine, then 
Ive got wait until tomorrow. 
Yes, yeah,  like I say that would be the last resort, chances are they will have the phone  in 
stock erm, you know  we just need  to advise  potentially what may happen, we need to set the 
right expectations for you.
The call then continues with Mr W saying hell phone the store to check if they have any 
stock before he goes  and asks for the number for the store.  Mr W did try to call the store, 
before going there, but couldnt get through.
Ive listened to one of the calls between the store, Assurant and Mr W where its explained  
they dont have any stock and request authorisation to give Mr W an S10 instead, but this is 
refused. In this call Mr W also suggests hes willing to pay more to get a phone.  From this 
call, I think it was made clear to Mr W that, as he was advised that morning, his only other  
option to get a replacement phone under the policy was to have the next day delivery.
I understand there may have been further  calls between the store and Assurant as Mr W had 
refused to leave the store until he had a replacement phone, but these arent  available for 
me to listen  to. In any event, Im satisfied they wouldnt make a difference to my decision. 
Mr W, given his urgent need for a phone, may have felt Assurant was being obstructive in 
refusing different makes of phones. But, bearing in mind the policy  terms, it only needed  to 
authorise replacement  with a phone of a similar specification. And, as he had been offered  a 
phone on the next day delivery  service, I think Assurant acted reasonably in dealing  with the 
matter. 
While Mr W may have offered to pay extra, in order to have a further upgrade on the 
handset, this wasnt an option  on his policy. As such, Assurant  didnt need  to agree to this 
suggestion.
Service received
Having considered all of the available  evidence, I think Assurant did what it could in the 
circumstances. I understand Mr W was very frustrated  that he couldnt get a replacement  
phone, within four hours, that day, as he believed  he was entitled to. However,  having  
listened to the telephone calls, I think Assurants agents dealt  with him in a polite and 
professional manner especially given his obvious annoyance with the situation.   
Ref: DRN90018244Claim cancellation
I understand this claim was eventually cancelled on Mr Ws policy record as it turned out, 
due to previous  issues hed had with the handset, it shouldve been repaired under warranty.  
However, this came  to light after his claim was dealt with by Assurant and Mr W had 
received a new phone through his phone provider. It makes  no difference  to the outcome of 
this complaint as I have  considered Assurants  actions as if the claim was active.  I have 
mentioned it for completeness.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9001824