K821x#15complaint
Miss Ks unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company Limited has declined  to deal with a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss K reported that shed had an accident.  She said she hadnt  been able to stop when a 
car in front slowed down and shed  hit its rear. She apparently said her air bags didnt deploy 
and both her passengers  were injured.
Calpes accident  investigator concluded after an investigation that the areas  of damage on 
the two cars involved werent consistent  and raised questions about  the veracity  of the 
incident. As a result  Calpe  said it would be declining the claim and repudiating any other 
claims made  by third parties as a result  of it.
Miss Ks two passengers, who are relatives,  instructed solicitors to pursue personal  injury 
claims. An independent accident  investigators report  on behalf of one of the passengers  
concluded the cars damage was consistent  and disagreed with Calpes engineers 
assessment. 
Miss K is unhappy with Calpes report and says its biased. Shes also unhappy with Calpes 
investigation and says its reasoning isnt clear enough and doesnt justify  denying indemnity. 
She wants Calpe  to deal with her and the third parties claims.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Hes read all the relevant accident investigators  reports. He doesnt  think  Calpes 
reports are biased  as Miss K suggests.  Its investigator has considered everything 
relevant and also later commented on the third partys report. But both parties 
experts reports present  differing  opinions each  of which is plausible. The conclusion 
the damage is consistent is also supported  by whats in the claim notes. Miss Ks 
witness statement is limited and Calpes  report noted this is a concern. But there isnt 
enough evidence  to refuse  to deal with Miss Ks claim. 
Miss K is also unhappy  that Calpe hasnt clarified if it believes the accident  didnt  
happen or whether it was staged.  Its said it has concerns about the claims veracity 
but it hasnt said it believes it was fraudulent. It couldve given Miss K more detail 
about why its concerned  about  the incidents  veracity.
Based  on all the evidence Calpe doesnt have enough evidence to refuse  to deal with 
the claim based on the veracity of events. It should therefore reopen  the claim and 
deal with it subject  to the remaining  policy terms and conditions.
Miss K accepts the adjudicators recommendation.
Calpe doesnt  agree and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary  it says that its 
expert report was prepared by a highly qualified individual  who says why he believes the 
cars damage isnt consistent. His supplementary report  also takes into account the evidence  
of the passengers expert. Hes refuted and explained the evidence in the other  report and 
this isnt a simple difference of opinion.  The claims handlers opinion  based on photos 
should be disregarded. Miss Ks passengers and family members  engaged a solicitor to 
Ref: DRN96757252claim personal injury before the third party had even reported the incident. Miss Ks family 
unit could financial gain significantly  from this incident. There  are numerous details in its 
investigators report which undermine  Miss Ks version of events. And its expert undermines 
her account  and his supplementary report hasnt been contradicted. All advice from Calpes 
solicitors, a forensic assessor and expert claims investigators suggest this is a staged claim. 
It isnt required to establish a criminal level of proof to reject a claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe has provided  detailed submissions. Ive read and considered them  all. But my findings 
are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I think are the main 
issues.
Its not our role to judge whether or not a fraud mayve been  committed  or attempted  by 
either Miss K or any third party. Thats a matter for the courts.
Its also not our role to determine whether an accident did or didnt occur and, if it did, whos  
at fault. But we can look into whether Calpe has conducted an appropriate investigation into 
a claim,  and whether its acted fairly and reasonably by declining to deal with it based on that 
investigation.
In this case Calpe has appropriately investigated the alleged incident.  It collected evidence 
from Miss K, the other parties and sought  expert opinion. As a result,  and particularly relying 
on the conclusions  of its expert who said the damage to the two cars wasnt  consistent, it 
said it had concerns about  the veracity of the incident. 
I dont think that gave a particularly  clear  or detailed  explanation to Miss K of the reason for 
Calpes decision to decline  her claim.  And its only in response  to the adjudicators  view that 
its recently confirmed it considers this was a staged incident and outlined  its concerns in 
much greater detail. 
Calpe now justifies its decision on the evidence it has from Miss K, what its expert  said about 
the damage to the cars and some circumstantial evidence. 
Calpe has said it thinks Miss Ks evidence in her statement is somewhat lacking. Miss K 
says Calpe is relying on her inexperience as a newer driver and her naivety. Whatever  may 
be the case the simple  fact is fact Miss K spoke to Calpes investigator and more information 
couldve reasonably  been obtained  from her quite easily  if Calpe thought that was needed to 
test or explain matters. 
Calpe says its expert is a highly qualified individual. But so presumably, and it would appear,  
is the passengers  expert. I dont agree with Calpe that this isnt just a difference  of opinion.  I 
think that is exactly what it is  a difference of opinion between  two experts. Given that 
divergence of expert opinion Im not persuaded on balance  that it was reasonable at the time 
it did for Calpe  to decline to deal with Miss Ks claim 
Calpe also now relies  on the fact that the passengers expert hasnt responded to its experts 
supplementary report. I dont think thats  fair as whether that expert is asked for a further 
response to Calpes experts supplementary report isnt within  Miss Ks control. That expert  
Ref: DRN96757253was presumably instructed by the passengers solicitor  and acts on behalf  of that passenger  
not Miss K - even if the passenger is a family  member.
Furthermore if Calpe  thinks the passengers or the third party  are putting forward  fraudulent 
claims the appropriate place to test their evidence is in court, on oath and where they can 
also be cross examined.
Calpe is also now relying on the speed with which it says Miss Ks passengers instructed 
solicitors to pursue  their injury claims and it says that this happened before the third party 
had reported the incident. Although I understand Calpes  concerns, it hasnt shown  on 
balance that this was anything Miss K was responsible for or that theres necessarily any 
fraudulent purpose  or intent behind the various parties actions.
In addition if the third party or any of the passengers  subsequently brings proceedings for 
their losses  in the courts, including for any personal injury, it will be open  to Calpe to defend 
the claims and test the evidence being  given in court by cross examining the witnesses on 
oath. And if its later shown the accident was staged  with the assistance or knowledge of 
Miss K, Calpe can take steps to recover  its outlay from her in the civil courts. And she, and 
anyone else involved in fraud, or other  crime, may also face criminal  charges.
Taking everything into account  I dont think based  on the conflicting evidence available  at the 
relevant time that Calpe has treated Miss K fairly or reasonably.  It was faced with two 
experts with differing, though equally plausible and credible, opinions  about the consistency 
of the damage  to the two cars, what happened and the veracity  of the incident. Overall I 
dont think Calpe had enough clear evidence  to fairly  or reasonably decline to deal with Miss 
Ks claim  when it did.
As such I think  the adjudicators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Calpe Insurance Company Limited should now 
deal with Miss Ks claim according to the remaining terms, conditions, excesses and limits of 
her policy.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9675725