K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background
In 1981, Mrs G took out a credit card with Lloyds (trading at the time as TSB). Her first 
available credit card statement, in January 2000, appears to show  her being  refunded  a PPI 
payment. So it looks  like she had a policy on her card, which started some  time between 
1981 and 1999, and was cancelled by January 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Having done that, I have  not found that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The sale was between  two to four decades ago, and the account has long since closed, so 
I think its understandable that neither side have the original documents from the time.  
Indeed, under data protection regulations Lloyds were required to dispose  of Mrs Gs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mrs G doesnt remember choosing  PPI, but I also think  
thats understandable  either  way, given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying  
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Lloyds to have added the PPI without Mrs Gs 
permission, or to have  misled her into thinking it was compulsory. But I have  no evidence 
which shows thats what Lloyds did here.  And the sale was too long ago for Lloyds to 
reasonably be able to produce  evidence to defend themselves now.  So on that basis,  I dont 
think I can fairly conclude that its most likely Lloyds misled Mrs G. I think  its more likely  that 
they followed a standard  process,  made Mrs G aware she had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs G or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs G Ive assumed  they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the PPI was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, Mrs G wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI. While  she had some  limited benefits through work, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of those and covered her for much longer. Mrs G may also 
have had some savings, but she couldnt  remember how much these were and its not clear 
whether these were  readily available. In any case, the PPI would help protect her savings, 
as she wouldnt have  to spend them on paying her credit card if she was off sick or lost her 
job. So it looks like the PPI couldve really  been  useful for Mrs G.
Ref: DRN90734062Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs G about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations, and it could have been  useful for Mrs G if something  
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mrs G could cancel it at any 
time without  a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about  the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073406