K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired via a hire purchase  agreement  was mis-sold to him by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS).
background
In December 2018 Mr K attended a dealership and agreed to take a nearly  new car via a 
four year hire purchase agreement. It was also agreed that the car would be supplied  with a 
corporate service pack at the cost of £399. The corporate service pack covered the car for 
four years or 80,000  miles (whichever was the sooner).
Mr K took possession of the car but was then advised  by the dealership  that it had made an 
error and the corporate service pack couldnt be added to the car but the retailer  service  
pack could. This offered  less coverage  and was for 3 years or 36,000  miles.
Mr K was very unhappy  at the corporate  service pack  not being included  and he complained 
to the dealership and to BMWFS. Various  solutions were offered to Mr K, including 
compensation, which he declined.
BMWFS investigated Mr Ks complaint  and upheld it. It said the dealership  had accepted it 
had made  a mistake  about which service plan could  be added to the car. It offered the 
following solution to Mr K:
To refund him the cost of the corporate  service  pack
Add the retail service pack free of charge
That the dealership would cover any differences in the terms and conditions  between 
the retailer  and corporate service plan
Mr K was unhappy at the offer and requested that in addition  the interest rate applied to the 
hire purchase agreement should be reduced for the life of the agreement, and the cost of 
the tyre insurance  he had taken out should  be refunded. BMWFS  said it thought  its offer 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr K complained to this service. He said he had a right to reject the car under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 as it had not been supplied as described. He said the car had been 
misrepresented to him and he thought this had been  done deliberately. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Ks complaint should be upheld,  She said that the 
dealership had admitted fault and she thought  it would be fair to give the business one 
opportunity to put things right.  The usual remedy for misrepresentation would be to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been had the misrepresentation not been  made,  
and she had seen  evidence that the corporate  service plan had now been added  to the car 
from February 2019.
Our adjudicator said she was satisfied that Mr K wasnt in a worse position because  of the 
error. She also said that the cost of the corporate plan had been refunded to Mr K.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the evidence she accepted the dealership  had made a 
mistake and that there had been a misrepresentation made about adding  the service  plan.  
She said that she thought BMWFS had acted fairly and she wouldnt ask it to do more.
Ref: DRN98991982Mr K disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said hed signed a legally  binding  contract for 
the car in December  2018 and he was entitled  to know  what he had bought. Mr K said that 
the agreement  provided a 14 day cooling off period  in which  he could cancel  it but he hadnt 
found out hed been mis-sold the car until after the 14 days had passed.
Mr K said as soon as he was aware  the corporate  service plan couldnt be added he had 
requested to be able to reject the car. He said he was told that the corporate plan couldnt be 
added and was never given any timescale  as to when his complaint  would  be resolved and 
he thought there had been avoidance of his phone calls.
Mr K said that between December 2018  and February 2019 he had the right to reject  the car 
as it had been mis-sold  to him. He had asked several times to do so and been  unfairly  
denied this right. He said his rights under The Consumer Rights Act had been violated.  Mr K 
said he had the right to terminate the agreement and return  the car.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that at the time Mr K acquired the car the dealership had wrongly informed 
him that the corporate service plan could be added to the agreement. Ive also seen  that the 
corporate service plan was something that was important to Mr K. So I accept that that there 
was a misrepresentation made to Mr K and that this false information induced  him to enter 
into the agreement.
Mr K says that the dealership knowingly  made the misrepresentation  and only told him that 
the corporate service  plan wasnt  available  after the 14 day cooling  off period had expired so 
that he couldnt cancel the agreement.  But I think Mr K has misunderstood this term. Under 
the hire purchase  agreement there  is a right to withdraw from the credit agreement  but this 
wouldnt mean there was a right to withdraw  from the agreement  to buy the car. He would 
still be liable to pay for the car.
Ive seen from the evidence that the dealership made a mistake that the corporate  service 
plan could be added to the car due to the way it had been  registered.  I havent seen any 
evidence that it was a calculated misrepresentation to induce Mr K to buy the car. Im 
satisfied that it was a mistake.
I accept there was a misrepresentation  made Mr K but the car coming with the corporate  
service plan and as set out by the adjudicator  the usual remedy  for misrepresentation is to 
restore the consumer  to the position  they would have been in had the misrepresentation not 
been made. Mr K says that he isnt complaining  about the position  he is now in but the one 
he was placed  in between December 2018 and February 2019 while his complaint was 
ongoing. However, I think the current  position  he was put in is of relevance and I think  its 
fair and reasonable to take into account that the corporate service plan was subsequently 
added in February 2019. Mr K now has the full benefit of the plan and has been  restored  to 
the position he had expected to be in when  he signed the hire purchase agreement.
Ref: DRN98991983Mr K says the car didnt come as described which is in breach of the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015, and he had the right to reject it which he was unfairly prohibited from exercising. 
However, while I have to take into account what the law says, Im not bound  by it in reaching 
what I feel is a fair and reasonable decision in all the circumstances.
Here, while I accept  the car didnt have the corporate service  plan added until February  2019  
it is now in place. Ive also seen that between  December  2018 and February  2019  a 
resolution to Mr Ks complaint was being sought.  In January 2019 BMWFS offered, in 
conjunction with the dealership, to have the cars services covered as if the corporate service  
plan was in place, and then in February  BWMFS was able to put the actual plan in place with 
the agreement  of the manufacturer.  Looking at this I dont think  rejection of the car for the 
lack of the original  corporate service plan would be proportionate.  So I dont think BMWFS 
has acted unfairly in declining Mr Ks request  to reject the car in these circumstances.
I appreciate this situation would have caused  Mr K unnecessary inconvenience and distress but 
Ive seen that he was refunded the cost of the corporate service plan and now has the benefit of 
this without incurring  any charge. I think  this is fair and so Im not asking BMWFS to do more.
For the reasons  given  Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9899198