K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1993  when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this Service. Nationwide explained that its records  showed  Mr 
and Mrs C (in her maiden  name) bought  the mortgage and the PPI through  a broker  
company Ill call Company  Q. It concluded that the broker sold the PPI because it was a 
compulsory condition of the mortgage  to buy the PPI in order  to get a fixed rate of interest on 
the mortgage. So Nationwide said it wasnt responsible for the sale  and it couldnt  take the 
complaint any further for Mr and Mrs C. 
We investigated the matter and our adjudicator said Nationwide  was not responsible  for the 
PPI sale; she said the broker was probably responsible  for the sale as the PPI would have 
been bought as part of the mortgage package.   
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. I issued  my provisional decision  in November 2018 where I explained why I thought  
Nationwide was not responsible for looking at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because I did not 
think Nationwide sold the PPI.
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to Nationwide and to Mr and Mrs C. None of the 
parties had any new evidence or comments. So I see no reason to change the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether Nationwide  is responsible  for the sale of the policy. 
If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  However,  
if I dont think Nationwide  was responsible  for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs C, then Im 
not able to say that Nationwide did anything wrong or that it needs to put anything  right.
In this case, I will be saying that Nationwide is not responsible for looking at this PPI 
complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for Mr and Mrs C so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Mr and Mrs C say about how the policy 
was sold to them in 1993. They recall they were told they had to have the PPI because they 
were told it was a condition attached to this type of mortgage which  gave a fixed rate of 
interest in return.  Ive seen a letter from Nationwide dated 12 May 1993  and addressed  to Mr 
C and Miss M (now  Mrs C). The letter makes  it clear they have to have PPI with the 
mortgage to get the fixed interest  rate. As the mortgage was sold by company Q, it is 
reasonable to assume the decision to buy the PPI was taken at the same time,  because if Mr 
and Mrs C did not want the PPI at that time, they would have had to look for a different  
mortgage which did not have PPI as a compulsory term; and as Mr and Mrs C were  told they 
Ref: DRN98198092had to have the PPI, I think  it is also reasonable to assume the advisor from Company Q 
must have  told them  the PPI was a condition of the mortgage.
Nationwide confirmed this mortgage offered a fixed rate of interest but only if the consumer 
bought the PPI as well - so Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs submission  that the PPI sale 
wasnt completed until they accepted the mortgage  offer. Having done that, I do not agree 
with them  because I think its more  likely  the decision to buy the PPI (and so the PPI sale)  
was made  when they decided to buy the mortgage and not when they accepted the 
mortgage offer. They were told they had to have the PPI if they wanted this particular  
mortgage - so Im persuaded it was made  clear  to them that PPI was being sold at the same 
time as the mortgage.
So I agree with Nationwides conclusions. Im persuaded  the mortgage  and PPI were sold at 
the same  time by Company Q as part of a mortgage  package.  I can reasonably  assume 
there was some discussion about  PPI and how it formed part of the mortgage package in 
order to get the fixed rate of interest  and that is when Mr and Mrs C decided  to buy the 
mortgage with that particular  offer. This was not an unusual offer or an unfair one. So I will 
conclude that Nationwide  is not responsible for the PPI sale.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely that Nationwide sold this policy. It 
follows it also wasnt responsible for carrying out the sale properly. So Im not going to 
uphold this PPI mis-sale  complaint against  Nationwide. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not find that Nationwide Building Society is responsible for this 
PPI sale so I do not uphold the mis-sale  complaint against it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9819809