K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) 
in relation to two loans he received from them. He feels that this lending  was irresponsible  
and failed to take into account  his other debts. He wants  Likely Loans to refund all the 
interest he has paid to date, and for interest  to be paid to him. He also wants details of the 
loans to be removed  from his credit file. 
background
Mr B has previously  used payday  lenders, and has a default registered  on his credit file from 
2013. 
In 2015, he applied to Likely Loans  for a £3,000  loan. He indicated  in his application that the 
purpose of the loan was to consolidate his debts. He declared  his income as around £28,000 
per year and said that he was living with family.  
Likely Loans accepted his application  and released  funds  to him in late 2015. This was 
repayable over 24 months at around  £180 per month. 
Mr B made regular payments on his loan and settled this in January 2018. 
In the meantime, however, Mr B built up other debts, and in February  2018  he took out a 
loan with another provider  for £4000. 
Mr B then applied for a second loan with Likely Loans, for £5000. In his application  Mr B 
declared that he had an income of around £36,000 per year, and that he was living with 
family, with outgoings of around £800 per month. In fact, Mr B was at that time unemployed 
and was renting  a property in London at high monthly cost. 
Likely Loans approved Mr Bs application and released funds to him shortly afterwards. This 
was repayable over 36 months at a little over £300 per month.  
Mr B subsequently made his payments on the loan on time. 
Mr B complained to Likely Loans  in late 2018.  He felt that Likely Loans had been 
irresponsible in lending  to him when  he had issues in his credit  history and had other  debts. 
He felt that the loan repayments  were  not affordable.
Likely Loans sent him its final response  in January 2019, rejecting his complaint. 
Likely Loans set out that when Mr B had applied for his first loan, Likely  Loans  carried out 
credit checks and were aware of the default in his history.  It said that Likely  Loans accepted 
applications from customers  with imperfect credit and that Mr B met the criteria for 
borrowing. It also noted that Mr Bs declared  income  of £28,000  per year and low outgoings 
meant that it considered the loan affordable. 
In respect of the second loan application, Likely Loans again completed a credit check  which  
met its criteria. It also took into account  that Mr B had previously held a loan which he repaid 
in full and on time.  He had declared that he was employed and had low outgoings  which led 
Likely Loans to consider  the loan affordable. 
Ref: DRN97366322Mr B was not happy with that response  and contacted us.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Bs complaint and set out their view to the 
parties. This was that Likely Loans had carried out reasonable checks before  approving the 
loans, and could  expect information provided by applicants to be accurate. She therefore  did 
not consider that Likely Loans  had done  anything substantially wrong. 
Mr B has not accepted  that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  had regard to the information  Mr B provided in his applications, and the 
information held in his credit file. 
This shows that Mr B had previously held a large number of short term loans over periods of 
up to a few months.  It also showed that at the time of applying  for his second  loan he had 
outstanding debt of around  £10,000.  
As Mr B was aware of the cycle he had experienced, and was aware that he was finding his 
monthly income insufficient  to meet his outgoings I can see why he feels  that, looking back, 
Likely Loans was wrong to lend to him and made  his debt situation worse. 
I do, however,  have  to look at whether Likely Loans acted irresponsibly at the time, based on 
the information available to it. 
In respect of the first loan,  I can see that there  were  details  of short  term loans on his credit  
report, and a default, which could  have alerted Likely Loans to the cycle Mr B was in. Likely 
Loans did, however,  market itself as being a lender who would deal with customers who had 
had difficulties with credit before. 
In his application, Mr B indicated  that he wanted  to use the loan for debt consolidation and 
so the presence  of short term loans in his credit  history  would  have been  consistent. Mr Bs 
credit report  demonstrated that, other than the default, he had made the vast majority of his 
payments on time. When combined with the information he gave about  his income and 
outgoings it appeared that his overall  level of debt was not disproportionate  and the 
repayments were affordable. I therefore  think that it was reasonable for Likely Loans to 
agree the first loan. 
Similarly, when Mr B applied for the second  loan,  his credit report showed  a significant level 
of debt, but debts  which  had been  consistently paid.  In addition Likely Loans had its own 
records of Mr B making his payments and settling his loan from 2015 a short  time earlier.
Whilst in the context of Mr B being  unemployed and having London  rent to pay, his debt 
would seem a lot, it would  not have been disproportionate to his declared income if this had 
been accurate.  Likely Loans were not aware of Mr Bs true position and it appeared, based 
on the information available to Likely Loans, that the loan was affordable.  I therefore  do not 
think that Likely Loans was irresponsible in its decision to lend to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN97366323As a result, whilst I understand that Mr B will be disappointed by this decision, I do not 
uphold his complaint and do not ask Likely Loans to do anything further. 
I note that Mr B has experienced difficulties and that he is in a position where the 
repayments on the second loan have become unaffordable to Mr B, but this was not 
apparent at the time of lending. Should he discuss his difficulties with Likely  Loans and seek  
to change his arrangement,  Likely  Loans  is required to treat him positively and 
sympathetically. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask 
Oakbrook Finance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9736632