K822xcomplaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the success fee charged  by Crystal Legal Services Limited 
(Crystal Legal) following  her successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claim in 2019.  
Mrs W says she thought  Crystal Legal had stopped representing  her in 2016. 
background 
Mrs W instructed  Crystal Legal to represent  her in making payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) claims in April 2016. The signed  agreement confirmed that Crystal Legal would charge 
30% plus VAT in the event of a successful claim. The cancellation terms explained  Crystal  
Legal could cancel the agreement at any time,  and there would be no success fee to pay if 
they advised Mrs W that her claims unlikely  to succeed. 
Crystal Legal contacted Lender  B in 2016 to ask whether Mrs W had taken out PPI with any 
accounts held with them. Lender  B responded saying that Mrs W only taken out PPI on one 
account, but a complaint had already been  made,  and money paid out for this account. 
In June 2016 Crystal Legal told Mrs W that they wouldnt be able to proceed any further  with 
her claim, and as per her signed  terms and conditions, there are no fees to pay for this 
case.
In March 2019 Lender B wrote  to Mrs W and Crystal  Legal  saying that theyd previously 
provided an incorrect response,  and following a further review, theyd found PPI on the 
account enquired  about. Lender  B agreed  to refund the PPI premiums  complained  of, and 
Crystal Legal then sent their invoice to Mrs W for payment.
Mrs W complained  to Crystal Legal  about their success fee, saying  that she thought  they 
were no longer representing  her, and their success fee wasnt justified. Crystal Legal  
rejected Mrs Ws complaint, saying that it was because of their involvement  in 2016 that 
Mrs Ws claim with Lender B was successful, and their success fee should be paid. 
The investigator found that it wouldnt be fair for Crystal Legal to charge  their success  fee, 
and recommended that they waive their fee in resolution of Mrs Ws complaint. Crystal Legal 
disagreed, providing  additional evidence of their contact  with Lender B even after the claim 
was closed in 2016, as proof that they were still involved in the process, and it was because 
of their initial enquiry  that Lender  B re-reviewed Mrs Ws claim.  
I issued my provisional decision on 13 August 2019  saying that Crystal Legal had acted fairly 
and I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Crystal Legal  and Mrs W provided no further 
comments. Because of this theres  been no change to my provisional decision, and it 
remains my decision that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. The findings  below  are repeated  
from my provisional decision for completeness.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I accept that the letter  sent to Mrs W in 2016 from Crystal Legal indicated  that they wouldnt 
be dealing  with Mrs Ws claim anymore. This cancellation was given in line with the terms 
Ref: DRN96179382and conditions allowing Crystal Legal to cancel the agreement if they didnt think  Mrs Ws 
claim was likely to succeed. I can understand why Mrs W thought that Crystal Legal wouldnt 
be representing her anymore. 
In deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome  would be for this complaint, Ive considered 
why Crystal Legal  told Mrs W that her claim had been closed. Ive seen that Crystal Legal 
thought there was nothing more they could do with Mrs Ws claim, because  theyd relied  on 
the response from Lender B. Following  their initial enquiry, they were told that Mrs W had 
only had one account with PPI, but that claim had already been settled. So I think it was fair 
for Crystal  Legal  to tell Mrs W that there wasnt any more they could do with her claim. 
Crystal Legal have  provided evidence to show that Lender B contacted them  in August 2018, 
and told them that they were reviewing  previous no-PPI outcomes because  of an error theyd 
made on earlier enquiries. The update from Lender  B also explained that no further action 
was required from either their mutual customer (Mrs W), or the business representing a 
customer on a claim  (Crystal  Legal). 
Its not disputed  that Crystal Legal  sent an enquiry to Lender B in 2016. On balance,  I think 
its more likely than not that it was because of Crystal Legals enquiry in 2016 that led to a 
re-review of the claim in 2019, and offer. In reaching this decision,  Ive taken into account  the 
contact Lender B made with Crystal  Legal in 2018,  and the offer letter  sent in 2019,  which  
Crystal Legal were  also sent a copy of. 
When deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive looked at the terms Mrs W agreed  to, and 
what happened with the claim from 2016. I accept that Mrs W feels strongly that her 
agreement with Crystal Legal  had been  cancelled in 2016. But I also think  this only 
happened because  Crystal Legal relied on the information returned  by Lender B saying that 
Mrs Ws accounts (apart from one previous claim) didnt have PPI. If Lender B had correctly  
reviewed the claim in 2016, Mrs Ws claim would most likely  have been successful at that 
time, and Crystal  Legals success fee wouldve become payable in line with the terms 
agreed to by Mrs W.
my final decision
For the reasons  provided my final decision is that Crystal Legal  Services  Limited have acted 
fairly in charging  their invoice for the successful claim with Lender B. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9617938