K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Arthur J. Gallagher (UK) Ltd (AJG) made administration errors when 
renewing two building insurance  policies  for his properties.
background
Mr S is the freeholder of two properties (property  A and property B). Mr S says he received 
the renewal documents only a few days before the renewal was due, not giving him enough  
time to consider  them. He is also unhappy because incorrect information was contained 
within the renewal  documents   he said some information was missing and other information 
was incorrect.
Mr S says the errors  caused  him stress particularly as the renewals were issued so late and 
it had cost him time and money due to the many hours he spent rectifying  the problems. So 
hed like AJG to compensate him £300.
AJG accepted it didnt  issue the renewal documents in time. It also accepted that incorrect 
information was included in the documents. It says as soon as Mr S made it aware of the 
errors it rectified them and re-issued  the renewal documents.  AJG says in recognition of the 
inconvenience the poor administration caused  to Mr S, it reimbursed  the £95 administration  
fees. It also arranged  a seven day extension with insurance cover  in order  to give Mr S time 
to consider the renewal terms. Mr S renewed both policies.
Our investigator felt that the compensation AJG had offered  was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree. He says AJG made  multiple errors and omissions which  amounted to 
negligence. He says it had taken  him a considerable amount of time to ensure all the errors 
had been dealt with and it included  numerous calls in addition to the emails he had to send. 
So he doesnt feel the compensation reflects the time, effort and stress  this has caused  him.
As Mr S didnt agree  with our investigator the complaint has been passed  to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt a dispute that AJG delayed issuing  renewal  documentation for both policies and 
made administrative errors within the documentation.  So what I need to consider is whether 
AJG handled the matter appropriately when it became aware of its errors  and whether I 
think the offer of compensation made,  is reasonable, in Mr Ss circumstances.
Mr S owns  the freehold for a block of 18 flats (property A). The insurance policy was due to 
be renewed on 17 May 2018 and AJG sent the documents on 2 May. This gave Mr S 15 
days to review it.
I can see Mr S contacted AJG during this period to tell it that it hadnt included some  
important information  about the timber cladding on the building.  Mr S was concerned  as this 
needed to be declared to ensure he was covered,  in case  there was a claim for fire. AJG 
says it checked  with the insurer  and found  it was purely  an administration error  on their 
system  the insurer had included cover for this on the actual policy.
Ref: DRN99683972AJG rectified  the error immediately and reissued the documentation.  I can understand that 
Mr S wouldve  been  concerned that his property  was at risk. But from what  Ive seen I think 
AJG acted quickly when it was notified of the missing  information. And in any event, Mr S 
was still covered by the insurer. I can see Mr S was able to renew  the policy before his 
insurance expired.  So I think  AJG refunding the administration  fee for this policy  is fair and 
reasonable.
The second  policy,  in relation to a commercial unit with a flat above  it property B, was due 
to be renewed 6 June  2018. But the renewal documentation wasnt sent until 31 May,  which  
only gave Mr S six days to review it. Mr S noticed  a number of errors within the renewal  
documents which he again had to raise with AJG.  He contacted AJG and left voicemails over 
the weekend and was eventually able to speak to it on the following Monday to outline his 
concerns. 
But I can see AJG rectified these errors on the same day and sent new renewal documents 
to Mr S. It also arranged an extension on Mr Ss existing policy for seven days  to give Mr S 
time to review the new renewal information.  It also offered to refund the administration fee 
for property  Bs policy in recognition of the poor administration. So I think AJG actions to 
rectify its mistakes were  reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can understand Mr Ss frustration that AJG had made mistakes again, and that he wouldve 
had to spend time checking the renewal documents. But its always  the responsibility of the 
insured, to check the documentation, read it and notify the broker  or insurer of any changes  
or errors. However, I can appreciate Mr S wouldve spent more time having  to explain the 
errors to AJG than he wouldve done  if the information was correct first time  and that the 
errors werent of his making. But I cant see from the evidence received that this has been so 
excessive that it warrants  an increase in the compensation. So I wont  be asking AJG to do 
anything more. And if it hasnt been  paid already, Ill leave it to Mr S to choose whether he 
accepts the £95 compensation thats been  offered to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 March 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9968397