K821x#15complaint
Mrs T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) trading as House of Fraser  mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs T took out in 2003. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card on the telephone.   
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.  
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont think FICL  gave Mrs T clear  enough information about  the policy.  I say this 
because I cant see how the costs, benefits  and what  the policy covered were fully 
explained to her.  
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs T because she had enough savings to cover  
her salary for a significant time if she couldnt  work. This means she couldve likely 
met her credit card repayments for a while without the policy.  So I think  Mrs T 
probably wouldnt have wanted  the policy if shed properly  understood the cost and 
benefits of it.
I dont think Mrs T wouldve bought the policy  if FICL had given her enough  information 
about it. So, I think Mrs T has lost out because  of what  FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  her employment not 
being clear.  But Ive seen nothing that indicates her salary was more than she says it was. 
So I still think its reasonable to uphold the complaint due to the amount of savings Mrs T 
had. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs T in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs T would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN99362112FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs T owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs T would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs T would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs T 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs T paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mrs T 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs T what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9936211