K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society removed the borrow-back  feature 
on their mortgage without telling them. And they complain that, when Nationwide did offer 
them a one-off borrow-back, it took the payment from the wrong account, leaving that 
account in arrears and effecting their credit file. They say that, as a result,  they were unable  
to take out a loan. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2006  for £90,000  over 26 years. They  
took out a further advance for additional borrowing of £30,000 plus fees later that year. Both 
mortgage advances  had ten-year fixed interest  rate products attached to them. The 
mortgage offers detailed  additional features available  for use on the mortgages  of 
underpayments, payment  holidays  and an borrow-back  facility.
Mr and Mrs M made overpayments to the further advance account.  
In December 2013 Mr and Mrs M decided to exit their existing fixed  interest rate product on 
the main mortgage  early.  They  replaced  it with a five-year tracker interest rate product. 
There appears to have been  some discussions at the time about the effect of taking this new 
product  that the existing  mortgage arrangement had flexible  features  like payment holidays 
and the borrow-back facility and that new arrangements  wouldnt have those  facilities.  It was 
at this point the borrow-back facility ceased to be attached to the main  mortgage account. 
Mr and Mrs M took out new interest  rate products  on both accounts in 2016.  When  they did 
so, they were asked  about what they wanted to achieve with their mortgage,  about making 
overpayments and the borrow-back facility. It was detailed that Mr and Mrs M preferred to 
have stability in their mortgage  payments for as long as possible and wanted to stay with 
Nationwide as a lender.  Mr and Mrs M confirmed they made overpayments  in order to 
reduce the outstanding balance and thereby reduce the term of the mortgage.  They  intended 
to continue to make overpayments when they could for the same  purpose.  In relation  to the 
borrow-back facility it was recorded that they hadnt  used  this facility and didnt need access 
to that facility as the purpose of the overpayments was to reduce the mortgage balance  and 
term. 
After meeting with the adviser  Mr and Mrs M were sent a copy of the fact-finding  information 
taken at the time of the meeting and a summary of the discussions that were held. This 
documented As you have previously made overpayments, I have made  you aware that you 
will no longer be eligible to draw  down this money  and you have confirmed that you are 
happy to proceed  on this basis.  
The subsequent recommendations  letter sent to Mr and Mrs M two days  later didnt mention 
the change in the flexible  features  available on the further advance account. However, the 
mortgage offer that was subsequently sent to confirm  the change  to the new fixed interest 
rate product  only detailed underpayments  as an additional feature of the two mortgage 
accounts.
In June 2018 Mrs M asked for two quotes  for loans  from Nationwide  for differing amounts  
just under £10,000 and just under £25,000.  Nationwides records  show  that if Mrs M had 
applied for either of the loans the application would  have  been declined because  it deemed 
Ref: DRN97191712the loans would be unaffordable based  on the income and expenditure  assessment  it had 
done. 
Mrs M called  Nationwide and asked to borrow back £600 of the overpayments  she and her 
husband had made to the mortgage.  She was told that, since  theyd  switched products, the 
mortgage no longer  had that facility. 
Mrs M complained to Nationwide in July 2018. She said that Nationwides adviser hadnt told 
them that they would lose the facility to borrow-back when they switched products. 
Nationwide didnt uphold  the complaint, but it agreed  at the end of July 2018  that Mr and 
Mrs M could  borrow  back  £600 on a one-off basis to resolve the complaint. Nationwide  made 
it clear that it wouldnt allow any further borrowing from the overpayment balance. 
Unfortunately, when the borrow-back was processed it was taken from the wrong  mortgage  
account  the main  mortgage account  causing it to go into arrears.
The monthly payment  on the main mortgage was reviewed in August 2018. This resulted in 
the contractual payment  increasing from £484.40  to £486.00 from the September payment 
because of the error made by Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide again.  They said that Nationwides  mistake had 
affected their credit  ratings,  which meant  that theyd been unable to take out a loan. As such, 
they asked to borrow back all the overpayments they had made since they first took out a 
mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide told them it wouldnt  allow  any further  borrowing from 
the overpayments Mr and Mrs M had made.
As Nationwide  wouldnt  allow  them  to borrow-back all of their overpayments,  Mr and Mrs M 
asked to use the overpayment balance to underpay  the further advance account to use up 
the overpayments. Nationwide agreed and this arrangement started with their November 
2018 payment  and was set to last for 33 months. 
Nationwide responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  It acknowledged the borrow-back 
payment had been taken from the wrong  account and confirm this would be corrected, but 
no further sums would  be released from the overpayment reserve.  It didnt agree that the 
loan application  had been declined because  of its error, but it also confirmed it was 
correcting Mr and Mrs Ms credit  files. In addition, Nationwide apologised for the error in not 
calling Mrs M back on one occasion  it said it would. It apologised for the level of service 
Mr and Mrs M had received and paid them  £250  compensation.
Subsequently, Nationwide wrote  to Mr and Mrs M to apologise for an error in its response to 
their complaint. This was because it had said they had applied  for a loan in June 2018 
whereas they had only requested quotes. It paid them a further £100 for this mistake.
On the same  day Nationwide sent its response  to the complaint,  it also produced some more 
loan quotes - two for Mr M for amounts of £10,000  and just under £24,000   and one for 
Mrs M for £10,000. Nationwides records indicate  an application from Mrs M would have 
been declined  because of affordability, but had Mr M applied for either  of the loans, his credit 
score would have  been  a factor in declining the application. The other factor  in Nationwides  
decision was the overall amount of borrowing Mr M had.
Unfortunately, the correction to which account  the borrow-back had been taken from wasnt  
corrected immediately. This meant there  was also a delay  in the credit file being  corrected. 
Ref: DRN97191713Mr and Mrs M werent happy about Nationwides response and referred  their complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator felt that Nationwide had dealt  fairly  with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
However, he confirmed  that the monthly  payment on the main mortgage account would be 
returned to the level it was before the mistake happened. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigators conclusions. Mrs M said they didnt see the 
answers that the adviser entered into the computer during their discussions about the 
product switch in 2016. They contacted  Nationwide  about the issue as soon  as they became 
aware. Mr and Mrs M also again  questioned the payments  they were making on their 
mortgage as since the correction of the error the amount they were paying had gone up by 
around £2 per month, which they believed was extra interest.
Nationwide provided  further information  and answered additional questions following the 
complaint being  referred to me for consideration. During  which correspondence it confirmed 
the correction  in monthly payments on the main mortgage account hadnt been applied.  It 
said it would  have this done and backdated.
On 21 October 2020 I issued a provisional  decision,  in which I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt:
There are two distinct issues  to be considered in this case  and I will deal with each in turn; 
the removal of the borrow-back facility and the service  Mr and Mrs M received in 2018 when 
they asked to use that facility.
When Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage and further  advance  Nationwide offered a range of 
flexible options  that could  potentially be used if a consumer wanted to. These options 
included payment holidays and the ability to make overpayments, which the mortgagor might  
then be able to borrow-back in the future. 
Some years  later Nationwide  decided not to offer some of the flexible options, and it 
removed them from its new mortgage products.  That was the situation when Mr and Mrs M 
spoke to Nationwide in 2013  and 2016  to discuss taking potentially  more beneficial interest 
rate products.  Had Mr and Mrs M wanted  to keep the borrow-back facility,  they would have 
had to leave their main  mortgage on the ten-year  fixed rate until it expired in 2016   they 
couldnt have  moved  to the tracker rate in 2013.  In 2016 both mortgage accounts  would  then 
have had to revert to the variable rate that was linked to the 2006 products and remain  on 
that rate. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said they were told the choices they had made meant they kept the 
borrow-back facility. Mr and Mrs M appear  to be under  the impression that the flexible 
options were removed from both of their mortgage  accounts at the interview  in 2016. 
However, that is not the case;  the main  mortgage was changed in 2013 when Mr and Mrs M 
opted to leave their fixed rate early  to reduce the rate of interest they were paying. There  is 
limited documentation  from that time, although  it does appear there was some discussion 
about the changes to Nationwide mortgages.  That said,  I have nothing  that sets out in very 
clear terms  the effect taking the tracker product would have on the options available  on 
Mr and Mrs Ms main  mortgage account. 
Ref: DRN97191714In 2016, however, the situation  is very clear.  When Mr and Mrs Ms fixed rate on their further  
advance account  was due to end, they were  asked about their reasons for making 
overpayments and what they wanted from their mortgage. These discussions brought to light 
that the purpose of the overpayments Mr and Mrs M had made were to pay the mortgage off 
early. They didnt appear that interested in the borrow-back facility,  but wanted  the security  
of knowing what their mortgage payments would be and that they would remain affordable.  
It was set out in very simple terms in the notes that accompanied the fact find (which was 
sent to Mr and Mrs M on 19 August 2016) that it had been discussed that by taking the fixed  
rate they did, they would lose the option to borrow-back their overpayments.  So Im satisfied  
Mr and Mrs M were  informed at the time they took out their new interest  rate product that 
they would  lose the ability to borrow-back  any overpayments  theyd  made on the further 
advance account.  It would  appear that Mr and Mrs M prioritised what  they then wanted  from 
their mortgage over the ability  to use an option in the future that they hadnt previously used 
and didnt have  an intention of doing so at that time.  
So overall, I am satisfied  that Mr and Mrs M were informed at least  by 2016  they were  giving 
up the option to borrow-back overpayments.  I cant find that Nationwide  did anything wrong 
in the circumstances. Indeed, when Mr and Mrs M did ask to use the borrow-back facility, 
Nationwide made  an exception and allowed it. I think  that was entirely  reasonable of 
Nationwide, but just because it allowed it once, it doesnt mean it had done anything wrong 
or that it had to allow further borrowing from the overpayment  reserve.
Nationwide has acknowledged  it made a mistake  when  it processed the borrow-back  as it 
took the money from the wrong  account. It apologised for this mistake  and said it would fix 
the problem immediately, but there was a delay in that correction happening. This affected 
Mr and Mrs Ms credit files as arrears were  reported to credit  reference agencies. Again 
Nationwide said it would  correct this error,  but it took some  time for the correction to be 
made.
Mr and Mrs M believe the error and the resultant reporting to the credit reference  agencies 
caused them  to be told they would be declined for personal loans. I have looked at the 
information Nationwide has provided  in relation to the loan quotes done for Mr and Mrs M. 
This indicates that Mrs M would have been  declined throughout on affordability,  i.e. the loan 
payments were more  than Nationwide considered she could afford to pay back.  This 
determination is nothing  to do with Mrs Ms credit  file and so I am satisfied Nationwide  
recording arrears on Mrs Ms credit  file had nothing to do with that decision.
The two quotes  prepared for Mr M would also have been declined by Nationwide. His credit 
rating was one factor in that decision, but not the only one. In addition, I note that the same 
information reported on Mrs Ms credit file was not flagged as a reason  to decline a loan 
application from her. So I am unable to conclude that had the mistake of taking the 
borrow- back payment from the wrong  account  and arrears being reported on Mr Ms credit  
file was the reason Nationwide concluded an application from him shouldnt  be accepted. 
I would also point out that lenders determine what risks they are willing  to accept on an 
individual basis. This means that applications  to different lenders from the same borrower 
might be treated very differently from each other. So an application to a different lender 
following the correction  of Mr and Mrs Ms credit files being accepted wouldnt necessarily 
mean that an application made before the correction  to a different lender was declined  
because of arrears information  on the credit file.
Ref: DRN97191715Mr and Mrs M raised the issue that their mortgage payments were  changed  and they believe 
they are paying  more  interest now. Nationwide confirmed the monthly payment was 
increased because  of the arrears showing on the account at that time. It has said it will 
correct this and alter the monthly payment back to the amount it should have been  
throughout. This is the appropriate thing for it to do. It should also refund the additional 
payments made by Mr and Mrs M back to their bank  account, rather  than credit them to the 
mortgage, as these sums should never have been paid to the mortgage.
Nationwide offered Mr and Mrs M £250  for the errors it made on the borrow-back and a 
further £100 for an error in its complaint  response. I think the latter payment is generous  and 
I would recommend it to Mr and Mrs M. However, I think the compensation payment should  
be increased, given  the mistakes in the process  and that the redress  offered didnt fully place 
Mr and Mrs M in the position  they should  have  been  in. As such, I consider Nationwide  
should pay them a further £200  above what it has already offered.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  Nationwide confirmed the monthly payment 
on the main mortgage  account has already been corrected and so the refund period will be 
September 2018 to March 2020.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint I require Nationwide Building  Society  to pay Mr and Mrs M:
an additional £200 compensation; and  
refund  the overpayments made  on the main mortgage account caused by the payment 
review in August  2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 December  2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9719171