K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs W took out in 1999 at the same  as she applied  for a 
credit card. Its most likely sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy  gave 
Mrs W protection against accident, sickness and unemployment, and some  life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed so the complaint has been passed
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Barclays hasnt been able to provide a copy of the relevant policy document  so Ive relied on 
one from the nearest  available date, and what we know  about  the likely terms and conditions  
in place at the time.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont think Barclays gave Mrs W clear enough information about  the policy.  I say this 
because its likely the policy didnt  cover claims resulting from pre-existing medical 
conditions which Mrs W knew  about or for which shed had treatment during the 12 months 
before the policy started.  And from what Ive seen  and been told of the application process 
this important exclusion wasnt highlighted to Mrs W well enough  before she bought the 
policy. I think the exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions wouldve mattered to Mrs W 
because she had a medical condition at the time of the sale. And it seems this wouldnt have 
been covered.
Barclays says as Mrs Ws condition was diagnosed 17 years before the sale and she was 
seeing a consultant around the time of the sale, it believes Mrs W would have thought the 
condition was under  control and wouldnt cause her to have time off work. So, it argues, 
better information about the exclusion is unlikely to have affected her decision to take out the 
policy. 
But based  on the available evidence, I dont think this is a fair conclusion.  It wouldve been 
useful to have  more detailed information about  how the condition had affected Mrs Ws life 
and ability  to work before she took out the PPI. But from what shes told us I think  Mrs Ws 
condition is one which can recur,  the cause is often  unknown  and it can be difficult to 
operate on successfully.  So given these  characteristics, I think its likely she would have 
thought her condition might be a likely reason  shed  need to claim.  Shed already had 
surgery that she says had made her condition worse, plus she was seeing a consultant  
Ref: DRN93890862regularly at the time of the sale, and indeed is still doing so now. And as its most  likely any 
claim relating to her condition wouldnt have been  successful, this means  she couldnt have 
claimed on the policy for everything she expected to be able to. So I dont think  Mrs W 
wouldve bought  the policy if Barclays had given her clearer information about  it. 
It follows I think Mrs W has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays should find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
As Barclays says Mrs W made a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  it can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also deduct the value  
of the refund  of undisclosed  commission that it has already paid to her.
B.Barclays should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mrs W would  
have owed when  she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when Barclays works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI 
 Mrs W paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Barclays should  also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until 
the point when Mrs W wouldve owed  Barclays something on her credit  card.  The 
interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.Barclays should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN93890863my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9389086