K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt raise a chargeback in relation to an online
payment she made with her debit card.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional
decision dated 4 March 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.
Santander has responded setting  out that it has no further comments  to make  following my 
provisional decision.
Mrs D has responded to my provisional  decision. In her response  she has said that she 
didnt feel able to contact the merchant  in order to attempt to resolve  this matter with them  as 
Santander told her she would need  to before it could raise a chargeback claim on her behalf. 
Mrs D has stated that this was because she didnt know how to contact the merchant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs Ds additional comments and whether  these change  my provisional  
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why it was necessary for Mrs D to contact the 
merchant to try to resolve this matter prior to Santander being able to dispute the payment 
under the chargeback rules. I remain  satisfied  that Santander acted reasonably  in asking  
Mrs D to take this initial  step.  
In Mrs Ds response to my provisional  decision, she has said she didnt know how to contact 
the merchant. But I had already addressed this point in my provisional decision where I 
explained why I thought  Mrs D couldve found  the details for the merchant in question.  
As I stated in my provisional decision,  the name of this company appeared on Mrs Ds bank 
statement. So, I remain satisfied that Mrs D couldve used this information to identify and 
contact the merchant. 
I also explained in my provisional  decision  that the website Mrs D used to make this 
purchase offered  an online option to contact it to cancel  a driving licence application.  The 
merchants registered  address and telephone  number can be clearly  seen  on that website. 
So, I remain  satisfied that Mrs D couldve used  this information to contact the company in 
question to try to resolve this problem as Santander said she needed to.
I remain satisfied that Santander hasnt made an error by not processing  Mrs Ds 
chargeback request for her and that it made its decision not to do so in line with the 
Ref: DRN92254172chargeback rules it must  follow. I therefore dont think that Santander has done  anything 
wrong towards Mrs D.
Mrs Ds comments  do not change my provisional decision. And so I adopt the reasoning set 
out in my provisional  decision as my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold Mrs Ds complaint and do not ask Santander UK Plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92254173Copy provision decision  of 4 March 2019
complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt raise a chargeback in relation to an online
payment she made with her debit card.
background
In May 2018  Mrs D received a letter from a company, which  she thought was from an official
government organisation. This letter prompted  her to renew her driving licence and Mrs D
said she was expecting  to receive notification about  this. So she went online  and, using the
website details contained in the letter, asked this company to renew her licence.
Mrs D used her Santander debit card to pay the company in question and said she thought
this website was authentic  as it looked very convincing.  But after she did this she realised
the website shed used wasnt an official government site. And this company didnt renew
Mrs Ds licence for her. So, she thought shed been the victim of a scam.
Mrs D contacted Santander to tell it about what had happened. She asked it to block the
card shed made her payment from and to raise a chargeback claim for a refund of the fee
shed paid. And she said she gave Santander  all the information she could to support her
claim.
But Santander didnt  refund her money  because  it said it couldnt  raise a chargeback claim.
It said Mrs D hadnt  provided  the information  it needed in support of her claim. But Mrs D
said shed provided  all the information she could.  So she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ds complaint  and thought Santander hadnt acted fairly. He
said it shouldve raised a chargeback and thought it should compensate Mrs D £100 in the
circumstances. Santander disagreed  with this and so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im departing from what
our adjudicator has said. Ill explain why.
Ill say at the outset  that I dont think Santander acted unfairly in refusing to raise a
chargeback. I appreciate  Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision and I recognise how
strongly she feels about whats happened. But Ill explain  why I think  Santander  was entitled
to decide that it wouldnt  make  a chargeback in this case.
In making my decision, Im not looking  at the merits of the dispute between  Mrs D and the
online website she paid money to (the merchant).  So I cant  look into Mrs Ds concerns
about the merchant. Instead, Im looking at whether Santander followed the rules of the
chargeback scheme.
The route open to Santander to try and recover Mrs Ds money is called  a chargeback.  This
is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme - in this case VISA. It allows  customers to
Ref: DRN92254174ask for a transaction  to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods  or services they've
paid for. There's  no automatic right to a chargeback and if a bank feels  that a claim won't  be
successful, it doesnt  have to raise  a chargeback. So, a customer cant  insist a bank process
a chargeback. But we think its good  banking practice for a card issuer to process a
chargeback where  theres a good  chance of it succeeding.
Whilst its for the bank  to decide if it thinks a chargeback will be successful, wed expect  it to
look into making a chargeback if there  is a good reason to do so such as where a customer
raises concerns about a transaction. This might include a situation  where  a service isnt
provided as happened here. In reaching its decision wed also expect a bank  to act fairly.
Chargeback isnt a guaranteed method  of getting  a refund because the bank has no control
over the outcome of the decision  on chargeback. The bank acts as the intermediary. Its role
is to gather the information from a customer and submit  this to VISA, but only if it feels  there
are prospects of success. Chargebacks are decided on the card schemes rules. Those rules
cant be challenged and, as such, I can only decide whether Santander acted fairly in
following those rules.
When a bank looks at whether  to raise a chargeback  for a customer, it has to satisfy itself
that the payments being challenged are, first of all, eligible for chargeback. And to do this it
has to look at the relevant rules that apply. The card issuer   Santander  checks  the nature
of the dispute  against  a list of possible chargeback reasons to see what  evidence  is
required, the timescales and whether the claim can be successful. The bank would then ask
the cardholder  for any relevant information. Depending on the reason for the dispute,  the
bank has to use a chargeback  reason  code.  In Mrs Ds case, she authorised the transaction
but the service  she paid for wasnt received. So, reason code 30 was used  services not
provided or merchandise not received  as the nearest code to describe what happened,
which I think was right here.
Santander says the VISA chargeback rules for disputing a payment are strict and it says it
must meet these rules in order to make a successful claim. The reason code that was used
states that before Santander  can initiate  chargeback  the customer must attempt to resolve
the dispute with the merchant.
Ive seen letters Santander sent Mrs D, which clearly explained that if she wanted to dispute
this transaction  she would need  to provide specific information about how she had tried to
resolve this matter with the merchant in question. It also told her that this information is a
requirement of the dispute resolution process  and that it couldnt process her claim without it
as it wouldnt have  complied with the instructions set out within the VISA  rules.
Mrs D told Santander that she didnt have any details of the company  she was complaining
about and she said she didnt have any more information she could provide. She hadnt kept
the letter that prompted her to visit the merchants website  to renew her licence. But the
name of the company appeared on her bank statement and I think she could  have used this
information to identify and contact the merchant.
Having seen a screenshot  of the website Mrs D used I can see this website offers an online
option for a customer to contact it to cancel their licence application. And it also tells a
customer their registered address and telephone number. So, I think Mrs D could have used
this information  to contact the company to try and resolve this problem as Santander said
she needed to.
Ref: DRN92254175While I sympathise with Mrs D here,  I dont think Santander made an error by not processing
a chargeback for her. There is only ever one opportunity to do a chargeback  and if it
happens to be unsuccessful, the bank couldnt ever raise this again. This explains why
Santander told Mrs D it wouldnt proceed with her chargeback  request  until she provided the
evidence it needed.  As she couldnt supply that information to Santander it decided  it wasnt
able to process the chargeback on her behalf.  It said it made its decision after Mrs Ds
chargeback request had been reviewed  by its VISA Disputes Team,  who thought her claim
wouldnt succeed as she didnt meet the conditions.
With this in mind, Im satisfied  Santander  considered the information Mrs D provided and
made its decision in line with the chargeback rules  it must follow.  Ive not seen anything  that
would persuade me that Santander acted unreasonably by not raising the chargeback  with
VISA. It was entitled  not to pursue  a chargeback  it didnt think would succeed. And I think
Santander gave  Mrs D sufficient information  about  the information  she would need to
provide it with if she wanted it to raise a chargeback on her behalf. I also think it explained
why it didnt think a chargeback would succeed here. While Mrs D clearly  disagrees, thats a
decision Santander is entitled to make.
It follows that I think the decision Santander  made was fair in the circumstances of this case
and I dont require  it to do anything further.  It remains open to Mrs D to pursue the merchant
for the money she has lost in paying  for a service she didnt receive.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either  party has anything further to add  before considering  my
decision on this complaint once more.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9225417