K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs M took out in 2002.  It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs M says 
the PPI was added without  her consent.  
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Ms application  form.  The form has a section for the PPI 
and applicants have  to sign this section if they wish to take out the policy. Mrs M signed the 
section. And she signed the overall credit  agreement  so I think  if there was anything  on the 
form she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed  to, she would've had the opportunity to question  
it at the time.  
On balance I think FICL made it clear that Mrs M didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs M got the information she needed  to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mrs M says she wouldnt  
have been able to make a claim because she was self-employed. Ive carefully reviewed the 
terms of the policy  but I dont think being self-employed  would have made it any more  
difficult for her to make a claim.  
Mrs M says she had some savings but having  the PPI wouldve meant  her savings could 
have been used for other essential costs if she was unable to work due to illness  or become 
unemployed. So I think it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also 
Ref: DRN98344922looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs M and her representative have said,  but for the 
reasons explained above these points dont change  my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9834492