K820x#14complaint
Mr Q has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly  charged  him an 
additional premium  for his car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In November 2016, Mr Q took out car insurance with Advantage through a price  comparison 
website. He said he had been resident in the UK all his life. His premium for the policy year 
was set at £857.66.
But a few weeks later Advantage found  out that Mr Q had only been resident in the UK since  
2004, so they amended his policy and added  an additional premium  of £404.69. Mr Q spoke  
with Advantage  about the increase and said he wasnt happy. Advantage gave him the 
option of cancelling the policy,  but Mr Q didnt take that up and instead  continued  with the 
policy for the remainder  of the policy year and paid all his monthly  premium  instalments. 
Mr Q complained saying  the increase was unfair and discriminatory. Advantage looked into 
his complaint but didnt uphold it.
Mr Q didn't think that was fair and bought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  
into the complaint.  He felt that Advantage had treated Mr Q fairly.  As Mr Q didnt agree with 
our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr Q, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr Q has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Advantage have dealt with Mr Q in a fair and reasonable way.
premium calculation
Mr Q believes  the increase to his premium was excessive and discriminatory  given it was 
based on the place of his birth.  It might help if I explain that we're  not the industry  regulator.  
That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. 
And our service  generally takes  the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they 
treat customers with similar  circumstances in the same  way - insurers  are entitled to charge 
what they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
Mr Qs premium did go up significantly. So I can understand why he was concerned. But just 
because Mr Qs premium has increased, I don't think  that means that Advantage have 
treated him unfairly. Advantage provided me with information to show how Mr Qs premium 
has increased. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr Q. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mr Q in the same way as it 
would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated his premium 
reasonably.
Ref: DRN94417072When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr Q thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium 
because he hadnt  lived in the UK since birth. But each  insurer will have their own methods 
of calculating risk. Im also aware  that many  insurers think  an individual  who hasnt lived in 
the UK since  birth presents a higher  risk than people who have. But other insurers might not 
think the same. As insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk, I dont think theres 
anything wrong  with insurers considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher 
risk groupings. And Im aware  that Advantage don't calculate premiums based on where the 
policyholder was born, only on how long theyve lived in the UK. So they dont consider a 
customers nationality or race. So I think a British citizen born and raised  abroad  who 
becomes resident in the UK later on in life would be treated in the same way as Mr Q, so I 
cant say Mr Q has been singled  out or treated  differently  to others  in similar circumstances.  
charging the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Mr Q did amounted to, what  is known in the insurance  
industry, a careless  misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers  
may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise  have applied). But if the consumer 
isn't happy  with that approach, they can cancel the policy  themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium. But we think  its fair 
for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of paying the additional premium allowing 
the insurer to settle any future claim in full instead  of settling the claim proportionately.  But 
that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
CIDRA also gives the insurer the option  of cancelling  the policy where  there has been  a 
careless misrepresentation.  But we think its fair for an insurer  to explain to the consumer 
theres a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium in order to keep 
the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves.  Thats because the insurer 
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder  because  they will 
have to declare  it when  they want to take out insurance later on.
In Mr Qs case, when he was told he would be charged an additional  premium  he contacted 
Advantage. Advantage then told him the policy  could be cancelled  if thats  what he wanted  to 
do. But Mr Q didnt  want that and continued  with the policy. He also continued to pay all his 
monthly premium instalments. I think if Mr Q was unhappy with the additional premium  he 
could have taken  up Advantages offer to cancel the policy and he could have  looked  
elsewhere for alternative cover,  but he didnt do that.
Ref: DRN94417073I dont think Advantage  told Mr Q about  the option  of continuing the policy  without him paying 
an additional  premium  on the condition that they would only settle any future claims on a 
proportionate basis. But I dont think Mr Q was disadvantaged by that as I dont think  he 
would have accepted that option had he been told about it. In my experience of similar 
cases, policyholders  tend to find that option undesirable given they may face having to pay 
substantial amounts if the insurer  would only cover a proportion of a large claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9441707