K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mr U says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr U made  a complaint  to American Express about  the sale of his PPI. American Express 
didnt think that it mis-sold  the policy to him. Mr U brought his complaint to our service  and 
the adjudicator  recommended the complaint  be upheld because they didnt think  American 
Express gave Mr U clear  enough information  about  the policy. 
American Express disagreed with the recommendation and provided a copy of the sales call 
in which  Mr U was sold the PPI. The complaint was passed to me and I looked over 
everything on file, including the new evidence.  Having done so, I wrote a provisional  decision 
in which  I explained  I didnt think the policy had been  mis-sold.  My provisional  decision read 
as follows:
Mr U says he wasnt aware  the policy was optional. He took out the credit  card in May 2008 
and didnt opt to take out PPI at that stage.  So he was aware he didnt have to have the PPI 
alongside the credit card.  He then agreed to take out PPI during a telephone call with an 
American Express representative. Ive listened  to a copy of the call, and Mr U gave his 
consent to take out the PPI. And in my opinion it was clear he couldve declined the policy  if 
he didnt want it. So, on balance, I think American  Express made it clear that Mr U didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
American Express didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr U so it didnt have  to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr U got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information American Express gave  Mr U about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Us circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  
Mr U wouldve received  six months  at full pay followed  by six months at half pay if he was 
too ill to work. And he also had some  savings available  to him. The policy  couldve covered 
5% of his repayments  for six months. On the seventh month  his balance wouldve been 
repaid in full. It also wouldve paid an amount equal to the monthly premium including  any 
Insurance Premium Tax each month.  In addition to this, it wouldve paid 5% of his 
repayments for two months if he went through a qualifying life event. In both of these 
circumstances, the benefit  wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Us sick pay or redundancy 
pay.  
Ive thought about this carefully.  Even though Mr U did have a good level of sick pay and 
savings available  to him, I still think the benefits  available on the policy couldve been useful 
to him. So, on balance, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr U paid on his PPI  and whether American 
Express treated him unfairly. 
Ref: DRN94038662American Express has told us that the commission for Mr Us PPI was less than half of what  
he paid for each premium.  Weve  looked  at how American Express has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Us commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell him about the 
commission  so I dont  think  American  Express treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr U back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
American Express responded to my provisional  decision  to say it had no further comments  
for me to consider.  Mr U did not provide  any additional comments or evidence.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments or evidence for me to consider, I see 
no reason to deviate from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9403866