K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plcs  failure  to locate his mortgage meant that he couldnt  
transfer to another product and the bank has unfairly  affected  his credit rating. Mr M would 
like his credit  rating restored.
background
Mr M has had a mortgage since 2009. He says that he made several attempts in September 
2017 to contact Lloyds about  a property he owns to confirm the bank held the mortgage. Mr 
Ms intention was to look for a better interest  rate for his mortgage or possibly sell the 
property. Mr M says that despite  several  phone calls, Lloyds couldnt locate the mortgage 
and told him on several occasions that no mortgage  existed for this property. 
Mr M stopped making the mortgage payments to Lloyds. On legal advice Mr M wrote to 
Lloyds asking it whether  there was any charge on the property and for it to be removed.  
Lloyds then reported that there were arrears  on the mortgage to the credit reference 
agencies and sent a letter to Mr M.  Mr M says that this is unfair  and that Lloyds only 
recently created  a credit profile for him with the credit reference agencies  which  now show  
the arrears.
Lloyds says that it recognises during  this period  in 2017 Mr M contacted  it about  a product 
transfer. But its records show  that when Mr M phoned he didnt have  the account information  
to hand and the address  details differed  from the property address so that it was unable  to 
help him. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she 
didnt feel that Lloyds had treated Mr M unfairly. Mr M disagreed  and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M knew he had a mortgage with Lloyds. Mr M had been paying the mortgage for 9 years 
until he stopped  making payments in 2017. Mr M says he stopped making payments 
because Lloyds told him that no mortgage  existed on the property he had. Lloyds has 
provided a record  of phone calls with Mr M and there is no record  of it denying that it held 
the mortgage,
There is a record of a number of conversations in November 2017.  In a phone  call of 22 
November 2017  Mr M speaks to a Lloyds adviser who provides Mr M with the mortgage 
account number  and offers to go through with Mr M a product transfer application but Mr M 
declined as he didnt  have time at that point.  On 27 November 2017, Mr M spoke to a 
different Lloyds adviser about a product transfer but he didnt have his account number and 
gave the incorrect  post code with the first line of the property address so the adviser couldnt 
help Mr M. The adviser suggested  that Mr M get the account details and phone back. 
On 22 January 2018 Mr M wrote to Lloyds  to say Following many conversations with Lloyds 
in recent  months  it has been established  that no mortgage exists on this property and in fact 
the charge exists in error. It has come to light when Ive sought to sell this property recently .
Ref: DRN99095392Mr M asked  Lloyds to execute a DS1 form which is a Land  Registry form asking Lloyds to 
cancel its charge on the property. Lloyds wrote back to say that the mortgage account  was 
live with an outstanding  balance of £114,568.42 and the account  was in arrears  from 
November 2017.
Mr M appears to have had difficulties  accessing information about a product transfer 
because there was some difficulty  in getting his mortgage details.  Mr M says that he was told 
there was no mortgage on the property. But if that was the case its difficult to understand 
why he would be contacting Lloyds on 22 November 2017 asking for a product  transfer.  Also 
at that time, Lloyds  gave him his mortgage account number which should have eased 
access to his account details and allowed him to proceed to the product transfer if he wanted 
it. 
Instead Mr M decided not to make his contractual monthly payments and submit an 
application on the basis that no mortgage existed and the charge existed in error. This was 
despite the fact that he had been paying the mortgage since  2009 and had got the mortgage 
account number  in November and was talking about a product transfer. 
I dont consider that it was reasonable for Mr M to stop making  his monthly payments which  
were due on foot of the mortgage. Lloyds  has a duty to report any arrears to the credit 
reference agencies  and I dont consider that it has done anything wrong by doing so. Mr M 
says that he didnt have a credit profile with the credit reference  agencies for his Lloyds 
mortgage before he went into arrears.  If Mr M suffered as a result, he may wish to consider a 
separate complaint with Lloyds but this complaint relates to the recording of the arrears and I 
find that Lloyds  has done nothing wrong by doing  that. For the above reasons I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909539