K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) handled his 
claim for a damaged laptop  under his gadget insurance policy. He also complains about the 
amount of the cash settlement they offered him.
Background
Mr M has a gadget insurance policy provided by Assurant. In mid-August 2018 his laptop  
was accidentally damaged so he claimed on his gadget insurance. Mr M said hed had 
difficulty initially in providing  the information  Assurant  wanted to raise  the claim, but this was 
resolved by the end of August.
A couple of days after everything had been received, Mr M was contacted by Assurants 
courier company to say that his laptop  had been delivered to an alternative address. Mr M 
contacted Assurant as he was concerned someone  else had access  to his personal 
information. Assurant  contacted their approved repairer who confirmed Mr Ms laptop  was 
still with them and an error must have been made by the courier  company. 
Assurant told Mr M his laptop was still with the repairer as they were waiting for replacement  
parts, but Mr M wasnt happy with this. Mr M said he didnt believe Assurant and he wasnt 
happy to accept his laptop back if someone else had been  able to access it. Mr M also said 
that because of this he wanted  a cash settlement instead of a repair,  and he wanted  them  to 
raise a complaint.  Mr M also explained  to Assurant that he suffered from health issues  and 
was a vulnerable  consumer.  
At the beginning  of September,  Mr M called Assurant to say his policy with them  had been  
cancelled. Assurant explained this had been  done in error, and that this would be reinstated  
immediately. They also said that Mr Ms laptop would be delivered  later that day. Mr M 
wasnt happy as he didnt want to accept the laptop,  but Assurant explained this was the only 
option available.  
The laptop  was delivered to Mr M, but as soon  as he received it he saw that the repairs  
hadnt been done correctly - so he contacted Assurant to let them know. Assurant arranged 
for the laptop  to be collected  again  and asked Mr M to send them pictures  of the poor 
repairs. Mr M contacted Assurant on several  occasions as he didnt feel Assurant were 
treating his complaint fairly. In mid-September  Assurant contacted Mr M and agreed to 
uphold his complaint. They offered Mr M £75 compensation for the distress caused, and to 
return the repaired laptop to him again.
Mr M didnt  accept this offer as he didnt want the laptop back  and was only willing  to accept 
a cash settlement. So he asked this service  to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Assurant had 
completed the repairs covered under the policy. He explained that without an independent 
report on the repairs he couldnt reasonably say Assurant hadnt completed the repairs  to the 
required standard. He also said that as the laptop could be repaired it wasnt  unreasonable 
for Assurant  to do this instead of offering Mr M a cash  settlement. 
After several months Assurant agreed to offer Mr M a cash  settlement. However, he didnt 
think the amount  theyd  offered was fair so the case has been passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 June 2019.  I said the following: 
Ref: DRN96307642Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part. Ill explain why. 
claim settlement
Mr M has said hes unhappy that Assurant said they would  only repair his laptop and that 
when they did undertake  the repairs, these were  of poor quality. However, Ive looked  at the 
policy which  says that if the laptop is damaged, Assurant  will repair it (where possible) or 
replace it with the same make, model and memory size  or an equivalent specification  if the 
exact replacement  isnt available. So I cant reasonably say Assurant shouldve offered Mr M 
a cash settlement and treated him unfairly by not offering this as a settlement option at the 
start.
However, Mr M made  the claim in mid-August which Assurant  accepted. Mr M was then 
contacted at the end of August by Assurants delivery company to say his laptop had been  
delivered to an alternative address. Mr M was very distressed  by this as he believed  his 
computer security was compromised  and he was worried his personal information  and 
photos could be accessed  this made  him increasingly anxious. And despite Assurant 
confirming that his laptop hadnt left their premises,  Mr M confirmed he didnt  want the laptop 
returned. He also explained his health  issues and vulnerable position  but I dont think that 
Assurant took this into account.
Mr Ms laptop was returned  to him at the start of September but he said it hadnt been 
repaired properly. Mr M tried numerous times to escalate this with Assurant  but didnt feel 
that he was being listened to. Ive seen that Assurant offered Mr M £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him  but they said they would still only be repairing the laptop and 
if it was only cosmetic damage this wouldnt be covered  under  the policy.  Mr M has told us 
this made  him feel increasingly stressed  and upset as he felt the laptop  wasnt safe and he 
wasnt being taken  seriously.
Ive seen the pictures that Mr M sent to Assurant and Im satisfied  this wasnt  just cosmetic 
damage. And once Assurant had reviewed  the photos again, they also accepted the overall  
quality of the repairs werent satisfactory. So I can understand why Mr M felt this wasnt safe 
for his family to use and why due to his vulnerability this would cause him anxiety. Assurant 
attempted to repair the laptop  again  but Mr M wasnt happy  to have it returned to him as hed 
lost all faith in Assurant.  
Mr M said despite his concerns and repeated refusal to accept the laptop, Assurant still tried 
several times in September  and October  2018  to deliver it which  had caused him increasing 
distress. However, Ive seen that the laptop  had now been repaired and was ready to be 
returned to Mr M, but it couldnt do so because he wouldnt accept it. Ive also seen that 
Assurant then agreed in December  2018  that because the repairs hadnt been completed  to 
their required  quality  standard,  theyd offer Mr M a replacement or cash settlement. I think it 
was right that Assurant  offered Mr M an alternative  to receiving his original laptop back  - but 
I think they couldve made this decision more quickly based  on Mr Ms situation.
At the end of January  2018, Assurant said they couldnt offer a suitable replacement  so 
theyd pay Mr M the amount it would cost to replace it. Assurant provided three different 
adverts showing the price  of the closest model to Mr Ms  with the same  internal 
specification. They then offered to pay him the highest of the three advertised sale prices - 
£1,641.98. Mr M wasnt happy  with this as he felt these laptops werent a like for like 
Ref: DRN96307643replacement for his. I appreciate Mr M paid a higher  price for his laptop and he doesnt feel it 
wouldve depreciated in value. But Mr M hasnt  shown me anything  specific that would show  
why this isnt a fair value. So based  on this Im satisfied the cash settlement offered is 
enough to replace the laptop with an equivalent make and model.
trouble and upset
Mr M has told us this overall process  has had a substantial effect on his wellbeing. And it 
has been made worse  due to the length of time taken to resolve this complaint, and how 
Assurant acted throughout  this process.  
Assurant say in their terms and conditions we do understand that every claim can be quite 
different and we will make  every effort to take this into consideration when we review a 
claim, but I dont think  theyve done  so in this case. Ive seen evidence  that when  Mr M was 
incorrectly told his laptop had been delivered to an alternative address, he made  Assurant 
aware he suffered  from health issues which made  him a vulnerable  consumer. He also made 
them aware his health was being  severely  impacted by how his claim was being managed. 
However, I havent seen  any evidence that Assurant took this into account when dealing  with 
Mr M. I think its reasonable that when Mr M made Assurant  aware  of his circumstances they 
could have either given him a single point  of contact or agreed to prioritise  the progress of 
his claim which might  have lessened the distress Mr M was caused  by what  was happening. 
Mr M has told us that after the issues with the incorrect delivery information, he wasnt  
contacted when the laptop was delivered and had to chase Assurant for when it would be 
collected. Mr M has said that he constantly had to chase Assurant for updates and to check  
theyd received he correspondence after the made  them  aware of the poor repairs.  He also 
said even after hed sent them pictures of the poor repairs, he was still told the damage  was 
just cosmetic  even though hed shown otherwise. He explained hed felt increasingly 
frustrated and distressed  as he didnt feel he was being listened  to.  
Ive looked at the case in detail and Ive seen  that although Assurant were aware of Mr Ms 
health issues they didnt make any changes  to their processes.  Ive seen that on numerous 
occasions Mr M asked for his complaint to be escalated  to a manager  and was showing 
signs of distress, but I havent seen an evidence  to suggest this happened.  I think  this was a 
missed opportunity for Assurant to help Mr M by prioritising his case, and proactively 
updating him to provide reassurance that his case was being progressed  as quickly  as 
possible. I recognise that Assurant feel theyve acted in line with their policy terms and 
conditions. However  there  is a requirement  under the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Source Book  (ICOBS) for Assurant to handle claims promptly and fairly, but I dont think  
returning Mr Ms laptop which wasnt working correctly is in line with that. So for the reasons 
Ive already explained above I dont think Assurant took into account Mr Ms condition and I 
feel theyve acted unreasonably towards him.
Ive seen that Assurant  offered Mr M £75 for the distress and inconvenience,  but under  the 
circumstances I dont  think  thats enough. I think when Assurant were made aware at the 
end of August  2018 of Mr Ms vulnerable condition they shouldve  taken  additional steps to 
assist him throughout the claim process. And given his vulnerability I think  the impact  the 
errors caused Mr M was considerably greater than it might have been for another  customer.  
And because they didnt  do enough to help Mr M, hes told us its had a significant  impact on 
his health, and given his vulnerabilities Im persuaded this is likely to be the case. In view of 
the evidence that Ive seen, I think Assurant should increase the total compensation payable  
to £300 from the £75 originally offered.   
Ref: DRN96307644I invited Mr M and Assurant to give me any more evidence and information  they wanted  me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Assurant accepted the provisional  decision and 
apologised again for any distress  caused  to Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with my decision, he said in summary:
The laptop had been insured to the value of £2,500 and was under a year old so this 
is the amount  he should receive;
He felt £3,000 was a reasonable figure  to settle the claim because of the stress hed 
been caused by this process;
He felt £300 wasnt enough  compensation for the trouble and upset hed suffered, 
and £600 was a more  reasonable  figure;
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
Ive taken Mr Ms comments into account, but Ive come to the same  conclusion to the one I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
Mr M argues that Assurant should  pay him the £2,500  he paid for his laptop  as it was only a 
year old and still within its three year warranty period. He says Assurant agreed this was 
what hed get back in the event of a claim. Ive seen the letter  Mr M received when he took 
out the policy, which he feels confirms Assurant will pay him the purchase price  in  the event 
of a claim.  But it says confirmation that your laptop, Serial number GTXXXXXX, is 
registered and covered  with immediate effect under  the  gadget Insurance  with a 
purchase price of £2,500.  It doesnt  say that would be the guaranteed amount hed receive 
back in the event of a claim. 
Mr M feels that the compensation hes been offered isnt enough  for the stress hes been 
caused. He feels  that more  reasonable figures would be £3,000 in full settlement or £600 
compensation, plus the £1,641.98 offered for the replacement laptop. I recognise Mr M has 
told us about the impact  this situation has had on his health, but I have to consider whether  
Assurant acted in a reasonable way towards  him. I acknowledge  Mr M feels he was caused 
additional stress because he was told his laptop  had been  sent to an alternative address, 
and Assurant had attempted to return the laptop he didnt want on several occasions. But I 
havent seen any evidence the laptop actually left the repairers, and Ive also seen  that 
Assurant apologised  for the incorrect  information  and tried to reassure Mr M about  this. 
I also recognise Mr M feels  it was unreasonable for Assurant  to return  the laptop when he 
didnt want it back. However, when looking  at how much compensation to award I do also 
need to consider what his policy says and if Assurant acted in-line with this. Mr Ms policy 
says if your gadget  is damaged  or breaks  down we will either  repair the gadget  (where 
possible), or replace  it with a gadget of the same  make, model  and memory  size. If we 
cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification. So I 
cant say it was unreasonable for Assurant to try and return  the repaired laptop to Mr M. I 
recognise this situation has had a greater impact on Mr M than it may have done for another 
customer, but I cant reasonably say Assurant acted  unfairly towards him and didnt meet the 
policy terms. 
Ref: DRN96307645I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr M as its not the outcome he was hoping  for. 
But based  on everything Ive seen, I dont  agree  Assurant  should pay Mr M the £2,500  
purchase price he feels is due. However, Assurant couldve done more  to help Mr M once 
hed made  them aware  of his vulnerable situation   and I dont feel this was taken into 
account. And for this reason I feel Assurant should pay Mr M the £300 I recommended in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,641.98  for the cost 
of a replacement  laptop and I think this a fair offer in all the circumstances.  
In my provisional decision I recommended Assurant General Insurance  Limited pay Mr M 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused  which they have agreed  to do. 
So my decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited should  pay Mr M £1,941.98.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9630764