K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that National Westminster didnt  give her 60 days  notice  of the closure  of 
her current  account. And she wants compensation in recognition of this.
background
Ms J had a current account with NatWest. On the 16 January 2018  NatWest sent Ms J a 
letter informing her theyd  be closing all her accounts within  60 days. Ms J says she didnt 
receive this letter. On the 14 March 2018 NatWest  sent Ms J a further letter  informing her 
that theyd reviewed her personal account  and noticed transactions of a business nature 
were being  processed  through  it. They told her to stop business transactions within a month, 
otherwise her account may be closed immediately.
On the 22 March 2018 Ms J contacted Natwest to discuss why her account was being  
closed. She was informed  if she stopped business  transactions on her account within  30 
days  from the 14 March 2018  then her account  wouldnt  be closed. Ms J says she 
stopped business transactions from the 22 March onwards.
On the 5 April 2018  Ms Js account was closed.  A letter was sent on the 6 April informing Ms J 
how she could access her funds.  Ms J wasnt happy with the closure so complained to NatWest.
NatWest looked  into Ms Js complaint and said they hadnt done  anything wrong. They  said 
in closing her account theyd  acted  within the terms and conditions of the account.  And they 
made a mistake in sending out the letter on the 14 March. Ms J wasnt  happy with NatWests  
decision so referred  her complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  Ms Js complaint and initially thought  that NatWest hadnt  done 
anything wrong  but on looking  at the complaint again came to a different conclusion. 
He concluded  that, in giving Ms J 60 days notice of the account closure, theyd followed the 
terms and conditions of the account.  But in separately informing her, on the 14 March 2018,  
that her account wouldnt be closed  if she stopped  business  transactions within a month   
theyd hadnt acted fairly in closing her account. And he thought they should pay Ms Js £150  
compensation in recognition of that.
NatWest accepted our investigators opinion. Ms J didnt and said shed like a formal  
apology and the reopening of her personal account. She also explained she didnt believe 
the compensation was sufficient, saying:
- her children couldnt go to school
- she was penalised for failing to meet contractual payments
- she couldnt pay her direct debits
- she was denied a current account  switch and forced to open a new bank account
On the 4 December 2019  I issued my provisional  findings to Ms J and NatWest and gave 
them until the 18 December 2019  to respond with any comments. 
NatWest responded  to say they accepted my provisional decision  and had no further 
comments to make.  Ms J didnt respond  to my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN99087152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
the investigator for slightly different reasons.  
In my provisional findings I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to a slightly  
different conclusion to our investigator  for similar reasons.  Ill explain  why below.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Section 12.2 of the terms and conditions of Ms Js account confirms Natwest can close her 
account by giving at least 60 days notice.
We can close any other account by giving you at least 60 days notice.
Ive seen a copy  of a letter sent to Ms J on the 16 January 2018 saying that her accounts  
would be closed within 60 days. I appreciate that Ms J says she didnt receive this letter  but 
on balance Im satisfied  it was sent.  And it isnt NatWests responsibility to ensure it was 
delivered. So Im satisfied NatWest has complied  with the terms and conditions  of the account.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to  they 
cant unfairly discriminate  against a customer,  but they can decide  they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals.  Thats because they have  the commercial  freedom to decide who 
theyd like to contract  with. And Im satisfied that NatWest exercised its commercial decision 
legitimately when it decided to close Ms Js account.
service issues
On the 14 March 2018 NatWest sent Ms J a letter informing her that if she fails to stop 
business transactions on her account within 30 days then her account may be closed  
immediately. And Ive seen evidence of contact between Ms J and bank  staff confirming if 
Ms J stopped the business transactions then her account wouldnt be closed. I can see that 
Ms J did stop business transactions on her account within  this time period. And I can 
understand why Ms J would think this means  NatWest unfairly closed her account, but as 
Ive already explained Im satisfied NatWest followed their terms and conditions. And 
therefore, acted  fairly  in doing so. But I think its clear in giving Ms J incorrect  information  on 
more than one occasion, she was caused  inconvenience by NatWests  actions.
When thinking about what compensation is fair in this case, its important for me to separate 
the impact of NatWest  providing Ms J with incorrect information and the closure  of her 
accounts. I think its reasonable  to conclude the majority of the inconvenience  caused to
Ms J resulted from the closure  of her bank account  which  Ive explained I think  was fair  
not the providing of the incorrect  information.
I think NatWest  should  pay Ms J £150  in compensation in recognition of this
Ref: DRN99087153my provisional decision
Im planning  to uphold Ms Js complaint  and asking Natwest to pay Ms J:
- £150 in compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused
As I explained, NatWest  accepted my provisional decision  and Ms J hasnt responded. 
So with no new evidence provided  I wont be changing the outcome from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is I uphold Ms Js complaint. 
And direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Ms J:
-£150 in compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9908715