K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr A says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mr A that he had a choice  about  it. 
But Mr A says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mr As application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI with a box to be ticked if Mr A wanted to take it out. And the box has been 
ticked.
Based on this, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr A that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr A chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Barclays gave Mr A any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to him. This means Barclays  didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was right for Mr A. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like Mr A 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  couldve paid 
out for longer than Mr A told us he wouldve been  entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve 
meant he didnt need  to rely on any savings he had to make his repayments  if he wasnt 
earning. So the PPI would have  been useful for Mr A if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr A 
off taking it out.
Ref: DRN91491632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9149163