K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs W. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. Mrs 
W was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs W has said,  but Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Mrs W signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and shes signed the form 
separately to confirm she wanted  the PPI. 
Mrs W has said the PPI wasnt explained  properly and she thought the PPI was part of the 
application process  in other words that she thought she had to have it. In my view, it 
wouldnt be acceptable if FICL had put so much pressure on Mrs W she felt shed no choice. 
But I cant, without  stronger supporting evidence, fairly decide  FICL did this  especially as 
this happened  about 18 years ago, and I cant be sure how precisely Mrs W has 
remembered the detail  of what happened. 
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ws 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs W to decide whether it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs W clear  and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice. And Im not sure it did do this properly   at least  the information on the form 
itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other  information  was given to Mrs W. 
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference.  But 
given Mrs Ws circumstances at the time,  even  if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont  think its likely  to have made  a difference to her decision.  
I say this because  its fairly likely the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full 
employer sick pay lasted.  And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or 
redundancy pay. And she could have  kept in reserve  any other means  she had for meeting 
her living costs and debts. So the PPI is likely  still to have seemed potentially  useful.  Also it 
doesnt look like shed  have been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the policy. 
Ref: DRN97247272Mrs W says shes  tried to cancel the PPI several  times. I can see her card provider has 
explained how she can do this, so Ill leave it with Mrs W to decide  if she wants  to do that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9724727