K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as The Woolwich) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr B bought a monthly premium PPI policy in 2003  around three  months after his mortgage 
started. It gave him protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment. He paid a 
monthly amount  for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was told he had to have  redundancy protection when he took out his 
mortgage. But he declined PPI on his mortgage application form and signed to confirm hed 
made alternative arrangements. It was nearly  three  months later that he took out PPI, so I 
think he would have  known it was a separate product and, as his mortgage had already 
started, that it wasnt compulsory.  
Barclays no longer  has his PPI application form but thats not unreasonable as the sale was 
so long ago. It has provided a sample document though that Mr B would  have to have 
completed and signed  for the cover  to be set up. He would also have needed to complete  a 
separate direct debit  form. None of this paperwork indicates the PPI was mandatory. Ive 
considered Mr Bs comments carefully,  but I also have to take into account  how long ago the 
sale was and how that might impact  what Mr B recalls. On balance, I think  its most likely 
Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr B chose to take it out. 
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mr B so it had to check it was suitable for him. Ive 
looked carefully at his circumstances  at the time and I think it was. I say this because: 
Mr B met the policy requirements, so he was eligible for the cover.  
Mr B was entitled to at least three  months full pay if he was sick. The PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to his work  benefits  and for up to 12 months for each successful 
claim. He had savings  worth between four and five months salary but the PPI would 
have allowed him to use these for other  living expenses whilst not working,  or to 
protect them for his future needs.  Mr B was borrowing a large sum over a long time 
period secured against his home. Given the serious consequences  of not being able 
to keep up with monthly repayments, I think the PPI couldve been useful for him if he 
was sick or lost his job. 
It seems  there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult  for Mr B to claim. 
He wouldnt have  been affected by the main exclusions  or limitations. 
Ref: DRN93385902Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy wasnt affordable and it was competitively 
priced. 
Overall, I think the PPI was suitable  for Mr B.
Barclays also had to give Mr B information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that he 
could make an informed  choice about the policy. Its possible he didnt  have everything  he 
needed. But for much the same reasons that I found the policy  was suitable, I dont think  he 
wouldve decided not to take out this policy if better information had been provided. Mr B 
was eligible, it seems  the PPI was affordable,  it was competitively priced and he wasnt  
affected by any of the major exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information 
wouldve changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Mr B lost out because  of any problems with the sale.  I understand his 
policy was is still active, Barclays says if the policy is no longer required he should contact 
his nearest branch to cancel it. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9338590