K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2008. 
Miss M and Mr M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss M and Mr M have  said they were told they had to take the PPI with their mortgage.  But 
their mortgage was already in place before they took out the PPI, and had been  in place for 
some years. So I think when Miss M and Mr M took the PPI they wouldve known they didnt 
have to take it to get the mortgage. And I think  its likely  they were aware they didnt have to 
take the PPI unless they wanted  it. Also what we know of how Halifax sold PPI cover like this 
makes me think Halifax would normally have made it clear the PPI didnt have to be taken.
So, with all this in mind,  I think  Halifax likely  made it clear that Miss M and Mr M didnt have 
to take the PPI and they chose to take it. But I can understand why they might not remember 
this, given how long ago the sale took place.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss M and Mr M so it had to do more and check the PPI 
was right for them. Mr M wasnt  working at the time.  The cover taken was only on Miss M 
and for unemployment  but not disability.  And based on what Ive seen  of Miss M and Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for them.
For example Miss M was in full time employment  and wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the cover. For a successful unemployment claim the policy  would 
pay out for up to 12 months. Miss M and Mr M have told us Miss M was entitled to employee 
redundancy benefits and so didnt need  the cover. But the PPI benefit would be paid out on 
top of any redundancy benefits Miss M received from her employer. Also,  taking into account 
everything I have, I havent  seen  anything to suggest that Mr Ms redundancy benefits  from 
her employer wouldve  replaced her pay for as long as the PPI payments could last.  And  
Miss M and Mr M have  also told us Miss M wasnt entitled to any pay from her employer for 
sickness or redundancy. So, based  on what I have, I think Miss M had a need for the cover.
I say this taking into account  also that the PPI was protection  for a mortgage - a long term 
liability secured  on Miss M and Mr Ms home.  And as only Miss M was in employment at the 
time, the PPI benefit would help at what could be a difficult  time if she became unemployed.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss M and Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the cover. And, for the reasons Ive given, it 
seems like the cover would have been  useful if something went wrong. It also looks  like the 
cover was affordable  for Miss M and Mr M at the time they chose to take it. With all this in 
mind, and taking everything  else into account,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Miss M and Mr M off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN97424972Ive thought about all Miss M and Mr Ms points,  including  what  theyve said about realising 
only later that the cover  was only on Miss M. But I dont think Halifax was at fault for not 
selling unemployment  cover for Mr M because he wasnt in employment.  Miss M and Mr M 
have told us they had a claim  rejected  when  they were unable to pay the mortgage due to 
illness and absence from work. But I think Halifax made Miss M and Mr M aware they hadnt 
taken sickness cover for Miss M. And, because sickness cover wouldnt  have  covered any 
existing health  issues, I dont think Halifax was wrong to not recommend the sickness  cover 
to Miss M given her circumstances at the time.  So, for these reasons and those Ive already 
given above, Miss M and Mr Ms points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss M and Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss M and Mr M back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss M and Mr M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9742497