K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim he made 
under his landlord buildings insurance  policy for storm damage.  
background
Mr M holds  a residential landlord buildings insurance policy  with AXA.  He said, on 29 July 
2018, a storm damaged  his chimney  causing  the render to fall from the chimney  stack.  So, 
he contacted AXA to make a claim under  his policy for storm damage.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to attend Mr Ms property and assist  it in dealing  with the 
claim. Ill refer to them as C throughout this decision. C didnt visit Mr Ms property but it 
reviewed weather records and photographs  it had been provided of the damage caused.  
After doing so, it wasnt persuaded that the roof render has fallen off due to a storm. Instead, 
it felt the damage  was caused by age related  deterioration of the render to the chimney 
stack. AXA said wear  and tear wasnt covered  by Mr Ms policy  and declined his claim for 
damage on this basis. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this decision and complained. AXA reviewed the photographs C had 
seen and saw no reason  to change its decision. But it agreed  to appoint a surveyor  to 
inspect the damage  sustained  to Mr Ms property. Ill refer to them  as B in this decision. 
When B visited Mr Ms property and inspected the damage it thought  the rough case render 
has been in a very poor state prior to the claim. And it noted  that other properties in the 
vicinity of Mr Ms were  suffering from similar  issues. Overall, B felt the damage had been  
ongoing over a long period of time and, therefore, couldnt be attributed  to storm damage. In 
view of Bs comments AXA maintained its previous decision to decline Mr Ms claim because  
wear and tear was excluded under the terms of his policy.  
Mr M remained unhappy with the way in which AXA had dealt with his claim or subsequent 
complaint so he referred it to our service.  Our investigator looked into what had happened  
but didnt uphold this complaint. They werent persuaded that the damage to Mr Ms property 
had been consistent with a one off identifiable storm event. And they thought it was, most  
likely, caused by wear  and tear. Overall, they thought AXA had dealt with Mr Ms complaint 
fairly and done  nothing  wrong in declining his claim.  But Mr M disagreed  and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr M and AXA that Ive read everything  thats  been  sent.  So if 
Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint  either about  the way in which AXA settled 
his claim or his concerns about how it dealt  with the complaint he logged  with it. Strictly 
speaking, we dont  have the power to look at how businesses deal with complaint  handling   
Ref: DRN98112902as its not a regulated activity under the legislation  that governs  our service. So, even if I did 
think AXA hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of 
his concerns or make an award. I cant act outside  the law. So, I wont  spend  any time in this 
decision on that. Ill deal solely  with whether AXA acted  reasonably  in declining this claim.
Theres no dispute that damage  occurred to Mr Ms property. However, theres  disagreement 
between Mr M, AXA and its appointed agents  about the cause of the damage and the 
correct outcome of this claim. 
Mr M would like AXA to cover  the damage  to his chimney because  he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy  with AXA provides cover for damage caused  by a range  of perils 
that might  happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example.  But, in 
order for a claim to be successful, Mr M would have to show  that the damage  hes claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
AXA considered whether  or not a storm had caused  the damage. I think this was reasonable 
because Mr M told it he thought the chimney had been damaged by a storm. He was clear 
that the damage had occurred on 29 July 2018. So, AXA consulted  weather records  on 28 
and 29 July 2019 to verify  the prevailing  weather conditions.  
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In weighing  up the first question, I can see that Mr Ms policy  doesnt define  the word  storm. 
This isnt unusual. This service takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds,  
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Based on the weather records  Ive seen, the wind 
speeds recorded at around the time the damage occurred satisfy me that there was a storm. 
I say this because  there  were wind speeds of 50mph  recorded  on 28 July 2018. 
But, even  if there was a storm, in order for me to uphold a claim for storm damage  Id have 
to be persuaded  that the damage caused was consistent with what  our service would 
normally consider  storm damage. Id also have to be satisfied that the storm was the 
main/dominant cause  of the damage. 
In considering questions two and three  I think that the storm in July 2018, most likely,  
exposed the underlying deterioration of the chimney  stack render and caused that to worsen. 
But based  on the information  provided  I think the damage was caused  by wear and tear, 
which happened over a period of time. Im not persuaded it was caused by a one-off storm 
event. Ill explain why.
Chimneys are built to withstand adverse  weather and AXA has shown our service reliable 
evidence to demonstr ate that the chimney  render was in a very poor state prior to July 2018. 
Its also presented evidence to show that other  properties within the vicinity  of Mr Ms home 
seem to be suffering  from similar issues. 
Both C and B have  comprehensively explained  in their reports  how they think the damage 
took place. They both think it was caused by wear and tear, which I know  Mr M disagrees 
Ref: DRN98112903with. But I havent  seen any reports from Mr M that contradict what  either C or B have said 
here. With that in mind,  I cant fairly  conclude  that their findings  were unreasonable.   
For the reasons  stated  above, Im persuaded that the damage here was caused  by wear and 
tear. I think this was exposed by prevailing weather conditions at the end of July 2018. I 
havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that the damage here was caused by a one-off 
storm event. It follows  that I cant fairly  conclude  the damage caused was storm related.
Under the terms of Mr Ms policy  loss or damage  caused directly or indirectly by or 
consisting of inherent  vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear.  is specifically  
excluded. This is in common with most home  insurance policies because insurance  is 
intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt 
unforeseen. 
Overall, I dont  think AXA made an error in attributing the cause of the damage here to wear  
and tear. As this is something that isnt covered under  the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms 
insurance policy I cant fairly ask AXA to approve his claim.  
I know Mr M feels very strongly about  the issues raised in this complaint. But, while  I 
appreciate the reasons why he brought his complaint to our service, Im satisfied that AXA 
has acted fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be asking  it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9811290