K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Police Credit Union  Limited (PCUL) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Ms M bought PPI when she took out a loan. Both were done  at the same time by 
postal application.
The PPI was designed to protect Ms Ms loan repayments in the event she couldnt  work 
because of accident and sickness. And it wouldve done so for up to 24 months per claim.  
The policy cost £2.53 a month.
At the time Ms M was employed  and she told us she was entitled  to sick pay of six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay. She said she didnt have any savings and was in 
good health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that based on the paperwork from the 
time they thought Ms M chose to take out PPI and there was nothing  to indicate it was wrong  
or inappropriate for her.
Ms M disagrees.  She says that PCUL knew what her sick pay was and that she therefore  
didnt need PPI. She says because this wasnt discussed with her she was mis-sold.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint  comes  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
did PCUL  make it clear that Ms M had a choice  about PPI?
I can see that Ms M agrees she selected PPI. And looking at the paperwork she completed 
at the time, I can see that both the loan agreement and the separate  PPI application required 
Ms M to indicate whether  she wanted PPI or not and Ms M ticked the required boxes on 
both.
So Im satisfied that PCUL did give Ms M a choice  about PPI and that she agreed to take it 
out without undue pressure.
did PCUL  provide advice?
Both parties  agree this wasnt  an advised sale. And looking  at what  happened  when  PCUL  
sold PPI, Im satisfied it didnt provide advice. This means PCUL  didnt have  to ensure that 
Ref: DRN92107552PPI was right or suitable for Ms M. But it did have  to give her enough clear  and timely  
information about the policy so Ms M could  make an informed  choice.
the information
Ive already said PCUL  has provided us with Ms Ms loan agreement  and PPI application. PCUL 
has also provided the policy terms and conditions which  it says  and I accept on a balance of 
probabilities - applied  to policies like Ms Ms.
I think the information PCUL provided would have given Ms M a broad sense of the main 
things the policy covered  and that it wasnt free  the application itself said it was protection  
against unemployment (if chosen) and accident and sickness, and it set out the formula  for 
how the policy was costed. Some of the key exclusions of cover  were also listed here.
Given Ms M completed  her application  in her own time, I think its reasonable to assume  she 
wouldve paid more  attention to the written information provided than for example in a face to 
face meeting where more reliance might  be placed on the spoken word  of an adviser.  I dont 
think Ms M wouldve decided to take the policy out knowing  nothing about what  she was 
ticking for.
But it was PCULs responsibility to draw  to Ms Ms attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations, which might be relevant to her decision. 
Based on the evidence  provided Im not persuaded that PCUL  did everything it should  have.  
For example, I cant see the exact  cost of the policy was clearly and fairly disclosed to Ms M 
before she agreed  to take out the cover. And while I accept the PPI application makes some  
reference to existing medical condition exclusions, I dont think PCUL  did all that it should 
have to adequately drew  to her attention the main  provisions of the policy and all the 
significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think PCUL  gave Ms M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy.  
what effect did PCULs shortcomings have on Ms M? To what extent did Ms M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that PCUL  didnt likely  do all it should  have  done when it sold this policy  to Ms M. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms M 
would have still taken  out the policy had PCUL done things properly. 
Ive already said this wasnt an advised  sale. So it was for Ms M to weigh up in her own mind 
the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she 
didnt insure against the risk of being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Ms M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But I accept 
Ms M made  this decision based on incomplete information. So Ive gone on to consider 
Ms Ms circumstances at the time to help me decide  whether she wouldve still taken out PPI 
in any event or if shed  have acted differently had PCUL done anything  more. And having 
Ref: DRN92107553done so, I think  its likely Ms M wouldve still gone ahead  with PPI in any event. I say this 
because:
Ms M was eligible for the cover;
she was employed  and in good  health, so she wasnt  affected  by the key things the 
policy didnt cover or limited cover  for  e.g. existing medical conditions  or unusual  
employment circumstances.
Ms M said she had existing means at her disposal  more  than six months sick pay 
she couldve used to meet  her repayments. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and wouldve  done so for up to 24 months per claim, so 
longer than her sick pay. As such Ms M couldve used her sick pay to take care of 
other ongoing expenditure. And as I said earlier, Ms M chose to take the cover out 
so she must have had some  interest in the protection  rather than wanting to solely 
rely on her existing provision. Im mindful  too that Ms M said she didnt have  any 
savings or other means to fall back on.
So I still think Ms M wouldve  found the policy  useful and it wouldve helped her meet  
her loan payments  at what would likely be a difficult time. 
Its not clear Ms M was told the exact cost of the cover, but at under £3 a month it 
was in my view low in its cost. And in any event it appears to have been affordable.
So, I think Ms M had some good reasons to take the policy out. The evidence about  Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her; 
she was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions could have  proved useful to her should the insured  risks have become a reality.
I can see Ms M says that she got full sick pay  which PCUL knew was the case  and so 
the PPI wasnt needed.  She says PCUL shouldve  explained this but they didnt.
Ive said that this wasnt an advised  sale  so PCUL didnt have to ask about  or understand 
Ms Ms circumstances or demands and needs. This was also a postal  sale,  so there wasnt  
an opportunity for a discussion  about the policy. PCUL  provided information only and it was 
for Ms M herself to weigh things up and decide  if PPI was right for. As Ive said above, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out alongside Ms Ms sick pay, so its not the case  that the existence of 
sick pay in and of itself made the policy inappropriate  or wrong  for her.
As Ive also already said, Ms M chose  to take out PPI. And in doing  so she understood what  
her sick pay was. Ive concluded  that PCUL might not have given her all of the information 
she needed, but given the information she was given - including  how the policy was 
described in the application - I dont think the policy operated significantly differently from 
what she expected.  
conclusion
Overall and having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it 
more likely than not that Ms M would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what she thought he was getting  and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time, notwithstanding  the employment benefits shed have received. 
And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms M would have taken out 
the policy in any event. 
other matters
Ref: DRN92107554Ive also thought about the commission Ms M paid on her PPI  and whether PCUL treated 
her unfairly. 
PCUL has told us that the commission for Ms Ms PPI was less than half of what she paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how PCUL  has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Ms Ms commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont think  
PCUL treated her unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay Ms M back  any of the 
commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9210755