K821x#15complaint
Mr K and Mrs K are unhappy with how Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited dealt  
with Mr K when a windscreen  was replaced  under Mrs Ks car insurance  policy.
LV uses  a third party company to replace windscreens but, as its ultimately responsible for 
this complaint, Ill refer to LV throughout. And, when I refer to LV, Im including the third party  
company.
background
Mrs K had a multi-car insurance  policy with LV and, for one of the cars on the policy, Mr K 
was a named  driver.  
Following damage to the windscreen of that car, Mr K claimed on the car insurance. But 
when LV came to fit the new windscreen,  its technician found the replacement was 
scratched, so it wasnt fitted.  
Mr K is unhappy LV mis-communicated new appointment  times to him and didnt keep him 
updated on when  the second replacement windscreen would be fitted. Mr K says a journey 
he had to make the day after the original appointment was delayed and also he had to take 
another day off work for the second  replacement windscreen to be fitted.
LV gave Mr K the use of a hire car so he could make the journey hed been planning to 
make the day after the original appointment. And it offered  him £50 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused  him.
Mr K didnt think this was enough  and brought the complaint to us. The investigator who 
looked at Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint upheld it. She thought LV was required to offer Mr K 
the hire car under the terms of the car insurance  policy. And she thought LV should  pay Mr K 
and Mrs K an additional £50 as compensation  for the trouble and upset Mr K had been 
caused.
LV disagrees. It doesnt think it was required to offer Mr K the hire car and it thinks the £50 it 
has already paid is fair and reasonable compensation.  So Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs Ks car insurance policy says LV will supply and pay for a hire car after loss or damage 
to the car if LV is managing the claim and while the car is with its Recommended Repairer 
Service. Our investigator thought this meant LV was obliged to give Mr K a hire car. I dont 
agree with her view of this policy wording.  The wording makes me think this is meant to 
cover a car waiting for repairs at a garage. I dont think its right to say a car thats  at the 
policyholders home  is with our repairer (though  of course its possible for a car to be 
unusable while waiting  for a new windscreen  to befitted). 
Ref: DRN94908952So I dont  think LV was obliged  under the policy terms to give Mr K a hire car. But, in the 
circumstances of this complaint  especially bearing  in mind the journey Mr K says he had to 
make the following day  I think that, in order to treat Mr K fairly, it was right of LV to give    
Mr K the use of the hire car.
I agree  with our investigator that the compensation of £50 LV has offered Mr K so far isnt 
fair and reasonable given the amount  of distress and inconvenience  hes had. Call notes LV 
has sent us from the day the repair was originally due to take place, and afterwards, show  
how upset Mr K was with the appointment issues and poor communication  he experienced. 
LV has accepted these were completely unacceptable and not the level of service he had 
every right to expect. And Im sure having to book  another days  holiday from work for a 
second appointment to get the windscreen  replaced  was inconvenient for Mr K. So I think  its 
fair and reasonable for LV to pay him an additional £50 for the distress and inconvenience  
its caused him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint and direct Liverpool  Victoria  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay them £50 (in addition to the £50 I understand it has 
already paid them)  for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused.  
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date we tell it Mr K and Mrs K accept  my decision. If it pays  later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019. 
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited considers its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr K and Ms K how much 
interest its taken off. It should also give Mr K and Mrs K a tax certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9490895