K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Ms W bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It 
covered her card payments in case she was off work sick or lost her job, and would pay out 
for up to 12 months in any one claim.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen of the online sales process Ms W wouldve used, it had a section  for 
PPI. It briefly  described what the policy was for and what  it cost, and then had two options to 
choose from: one to take the policy and one to turn it down. Both options were equally 
prominent. According to the electronic record of Ms Ws application, she chose the option to 
buy PPI. So I think that Canada Square  made Ms W aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W, so they didnt have  to check  if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Ms W enough information to decide for herself if the PPI 
was right for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Ms W about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, Ms W chose to take out the policy  - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And while  she had 
some sick pay and savings, the PPI covered  her for longer  than they wouldve lasted and it 
paid out on top. And it meant  she could  protect  her savings,  which  she had set aside for 
other things.  Further,  Ms W doesnt seem  to have had any other  protection in place in case 
she lost her job. So the policy would have been  useful for Ms W in case  something went 
wrong. And so I dont  think better  information about  the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN99305932my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9930593