K821x#15complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) delayed her water damage claim under 
her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs D made  a claim when her boiler  leaked. UKI accepted the claim,  but as it was so close  
to Christmas it couldnt arrange works immediately. It offered Mrs D alternative 
accommodation, but she declined as she had an elderly relative staying and needed to look 
after her pets.
UKI inspected the property and stripping out was started so the property could be dried out. 
UKI provided  drying equipment and said no repairs would be done until the property was dry. 
Several months later,  Mrs D contacted UKI to find out what was happening with her claim. 
UKI confirmed the drying certificate was issued many months previously. It said Mrs D could 
get quotes for repair work.
Mrs D wasnt happy about this. She said she shouldve been notified.  Shed been living in 
her home for six months with blown  screed on bare concrete floors  which  couldve been 
avoided. Shed had to live in this dusty  environment which  had caused health  problems for 
her and her pets. She said it also damaged her electrical appliances,  furniture, and kitchen 
cupboards. Mrs D further reported a damp  patch  on her kitchen ceiling which  had appeared 
since the boiler leak.
UKI accept  it didnt inform  Mrs D of the drying certificate  being  issued. But it said removing 
the drying equipment shouldve indicated that the drying process was complete. It also said 
Mrs D didnt contact it to find out what was happening, and she had some  responsibility in 
chasing her claim.
UKI paid a cash settlement for Mrs D to have the repairs carried  out to the floor,  along  with 
the cost of some damaged electrical items.  It offered £100  compensation and waived the 
policy excess of £350. But it said there  was no evidence that the damage to any other items, 
including the kitchen ceiling, was as a result of the escape of water claim so it wouldnt pay 
anything further.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said UKI had been difficult even  about accepted  elements  of her 
claim. UKI argued over repairing the screed  and wouldnt  pay for her furniture to be put in 
storage whilst work was being carried out. Mrs D brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She said Mrs D had suffered due to UKIs 
delays and said it should pay an additional  trouble and upset amount of £400 as 
compensation. Our investigator accepted that the furniture had been  covered in dust but 
didnt accept it had been damaged. As Mrs D had already disposed  of the furniture our 
investigator asked UKI to pay to have it professionally cleaned. Neither party agreed so the 
complaint was passed on for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Delays
Ref: DRN99404802I dont think its in dispute that Mrs D shouldve been informed when her property was dry, 
and the drying  certificate had been issued. UKI didnt act on this. UKI has said Mrs D 
shouldve acted but she didnt for several  months. I dont accept that. Mrs D was in UKIs 
hands in relation to the claim. I dont agree that Mrs D couldve assumed the drying process 
was complete when  the equipment was removed. Mrs D isnt an expert. Mrs D isnt to know  
whether theres  another stage to the drying process  or whether the property needs to be left 
for a certain amount  of time afterwards.
I think Mrs D was left in a very uncomfortable  living situation for longer than she shouldve 
been. I think UKI failed  to act following the receipt of the drying certificate leaving Mrs D to 
deal with the impact  on her life, her belongings and her pets. And I do think  it should  
compensate Mrs D for this. I see UKI has offered £100 compensation in addition to refunding 
the policy excess of £350, Im satisfied this is a fair outcome for the delays and the impact.
Damaged furniture
Mrs D said that the concrete dust damaged her sofa and two armchairs.  So UKI appointed  
an expert to inspect them. The expert  said the furniture was of a good  quality and in fair 
condition. The expert said there  was damage  to the back cushion of the sofa which 
appeared to be as a result  of hair/body  oils. And damage to the seat cushion of the sofa 
along with sagging to one of the chairs they considered to be as a result of general  wear and 
tear. The expert couldnt attribute any of the damage to the claim or the dust. So UKI 
declined to pay for replacement furniture. Based on the expert evidence I think  UKI acted 
reasonably here.
Kitchen cupboards
Mrs D said the cupboard doors of her kitchen units were also damaged by the concrete dust 
and she got a quote for replacements. She said whilst the units themselves were fine, the 
doors looked like they are coated  in grime which she couldnt remove.
UKI said Mrs D never mentioned the kitchen cupboards during her claim or her complaint. 
So, it hasnt  had the chance  to review this damage. But Mrs D is adamant  that shes  raised  
this with UKI already and she wants us to consider it as part of this complaint. Ive reviewed 
all the information.  I cant find anything showing me Mrs D has raised kitchen cupboards  with 
UKI as part of her complaint.
UKI said it hasnt had the opportunity to investigate the damage  and theres no expert  report 
available. I think it would  be beneficial to both parties if this part of the complaint was fully 
investigated before our service considers it. So, Im not making  a finding on this point.
Kitchen ceiling and cooker
Mrs D said that since  the leak,  shed noticed a damp  patch on her kitchen  ceiling and asked 
UKI to deal with this as part of the claim.  I dont think UKI has declined  to review  it. But it 
wants further information to show whether the damp  patch relates to this claim or to a 
separate event  following a bath leak.
Im slightly  at a loss to understand why UKI hasnt  acted on this. It seems likely that the leak 
is linked  to a valid claim based on whats been  said. I understand UKI want  to assign it to the 
right event. But I dont see why it expects Mrs D to take further action to establish this. I think  
UKI should consider and deal with this in line with the policy terms and conditions.  If that 
Ref: DRN99404803means it needs to revisit the property, then I think that would be fair to get this part of the 
claim resolved.
Mrs D has sent pictures of damage to her cooker.  Having considered this, theres no 
evidence suggesting  that I can reasonably say this damage was as a result of the concrete 
dust. So, I think UKI has dealt reasonably with the cooker aspect of the complaint.
Compensation
I think I understand Mrs Ds overall dissatisfaction  with how her claim has been handled. She 
said shes had to fight every step of the way to get cover under her policy. And I understand 
how frustrating and stressful that mustve been. But I also accept for UKI to pay a claim, it 
needs to be satisfied that its a valid claim arising  for an insured event. This means certain 
details are required to evidence the losses.
I think its reasonable for UKI to review repair quotes. I also think it was reasonable for UKI 
to pay for the additional day of labour for the screed repairs rather than paying storage costs  
to store  furniture for one day. Overall, I think UKI has acted reasonably regarding 
compensation. So, I dont think it needs to pay any further compensation other than what  its 
already offered for the delays.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs D didnt respond to the provisional decision.
UKI sent a response. The main points UKI make are:
Kitchen cupboards - UKI have reviewed these, they could  be wiped clean and there  was no 
evidence of any damage from dust contamination. UKI said the majority of units  have 
cleaned up satisfactorily.  But areas  with heavy grease deposits (for example  the cooker 
hood) havent cleaned  up 100%. UKI doesnt wish to take any further  action on this.
Kitchen ceiling  UKI said when it initially reviewed the ceiling there were no issues.  It said 
Mrs D shouldve had the leak fixed under  the policy terms so it shouldnt  have been on-
going, and the drying  certificate  wouldnt have  been  issued if a leak was still happening. UKI 
felt it was reasonable that Mrs D should  provide supporting evidence to show  a link to the 
same cause. This second claim  was many months later and policy cover had been moved to 
another insurer by this time, so UKI doesnt  think its responsible. Mrs D never mentioned 
any water  damage to the kitchen and contractors also confirmed there was no damage to 
the kitchen.
UKI said Mrs D told them  about  a separate leak from her bath which it thinks  is directly  
above the kitchen. Based on this UKI thinks its attempts to confirm the source of the leak are 
fair. UKI said it was reasonable to ask for evidence of the new claim as it doesnt  think its 
related to the original claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99404804Kitchen cupboards. Im surprised with this response  from UKI. Ive said I cant  make a finding 
and that was based on what  UKI had said originally.  Now UKI is making completely different 
points. So, something  isnt right here. Either theres  been a break down in communication,  
the parties arent engaging with each other  or the full details  are missing from the files. 
Potentially theres a bit of all three  of these issues coming together here.  Whatever the 
situation is I still cant make a finding  on it. UKI will need to discuss the points raised 
following my provisional decision with Mrs D and if it cant be resolved it will have to be 
looked at as a separate complaint. In view of the revisit point Ive made about the kitchen 
ceiling (below) perhaps during a revisit  the cupboards point could  be picked up for further  
discussion and clarity.
Kitchen ceiling. I think Ive been clear that if UKI feels it needs to revisit  it should. In fact, 
based on its latest point about  whether or not it was the insurer at the time,  revisiting  seems  
a reasonable way of clarifying the cause of the damage, what event led to the damage and 
which insurer is responsible. If the revisit can come up with answers to the points UKI raises,  
then it will allow Mrs D to conclude the claim either with UKI or the new insurer.  In my 
decision I said UKI need to deal with the claim subject to the terms and conditions.  If further  
inspection confirms that UKI werent  the insurers at the point of claim, then the evidence and 
the policy terms and conditions will reflect that.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
deal with Mrs Ds claim for her kitchen ceiling  subject to the remaining terms and 
condition of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9940480