K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC unfairly  restricted his business accounts for 
several months and debited funds without explanation.
background
In early November 2018, Mr A received  a payment of £7,182  into one of his business  
accounts. Shortly after, HSBC reviewed his accounts  restricting access  while  it did so.
HSBC asked Mr A to provide evidence and documentation to support the purpose  of the 
credit. He attended  a branch and gave the bank some information towards the end of 
November. But the accounts remained blocked. Mr A complained,  but the bank said it was 
reviewing the account in compliance with its legal obligations and that the restriction had 
been applied  in line with the terms and conditions of the accounts.
With the restrictions still in place and the review ongoing, HSBC  debited £1,961.15 from one 
of Mr As accounts and £8,000 from the other  in February 2019.  Those  funds were  returned 
to the original sender. 
Mr A continued to chase  progress, but HSBC responded to say that hed need to wait for the 
review to be completed. And so concerned  about  the impact  the matter  was having on his 
ability to run his business, Mr A referred  his complaint to us. He said that HSBC  hadnt given 
any explanation  for what  was happening  and that the situation was causing  him severe 
financial difficulties.
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong  in reviewing and restricting  the 
accounts given  the information shed seen. But she thought it was unfair for the bank  to 
continue charging  Mr A account  fees while the restrictions were  in place  so she thought it 
should refund those.
Neither party accepted our investigators  view. Mr A said the banks actions were unfair and 
that it hadnt properly notified him of what it was doing, and why. HSBC thought the basis for 
the proposed  refund  was contradictory, given that it had acted  legitimately in applying the 
restrictions in the first place. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
While the complaint has been with us, HSBC has closed Mr As accounts and issued a 
demand for repayment  of the debit  balance.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint earlier  this month, setting  out why I didnt  
intend to uphold it. I said:
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr As accounts, HSBC  was entitled to review the 
accounts and to suspend (and ultimately  withdraw) its services. Its required to have  
such measures in place  to fulfil a number  of legal and regulatory obligations.
Ref: DRN93852232Here, HSBC says it restricted Mr As accounts  in order  to comply with its legal 
obligations. Following  the £7,182 credit to Mr As account in November, HSBC 
received information  from the senders bank  recalling the payment on the basis that 
its customer hadnt authorised the payment. So it restricted Mr As account while it 
reviewed the account. And having looked at all the available evidence, I think that was 
a reasonable step for HSBC to take in order to comply with its obligations.
I know Mr A is unhappy that he didnt  receive notice of the restriction,  and in turn this 
affected his ability to run his business.  But the terms and conditions allow HSBC to 
restrict accounts immediately and without notice in certain circumstances. Im satisfied  
that it was entitled  to do so here,  and that its actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr A is also unhappy at the time it took HSBC to complete its review, especially as this 
meant that direct debit  and standing order payments were returned unpaid.  But having 
reviewed the banks actions, Im satisfied that there werent any unreasonable  delays. 
There isnt a specific timeframe within which this kind of review  ought to be completed. 
And from what Ive seen, the review was progressed in a timely manner and without 
undue delay. As I think HSBCs actions were justified, it follows that I dont think its 
responsible for any loss or difficulty that Mr A experienced as a result.
Ive noted that Mr As accounts continued to incur charges while the banks review was 
ongoing. But these  charges were  applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. As Ive not found that the bank did anything wrong in suspending the account, 
I dont think I can fairly  require it to refund the charges that applied during this period.
I appreciate Mr A was also concerned that HSBC didnt explain why it was reviewing 
his accounts.  But its not required to disclose  its reasons, and I cant  reasonably  
require it do so here. So while I do appreciate how frustrating this wouldve been  for 
Mr A, I cant say that HSBC did anything  wrong  here either.
While Mr As accounts were suspended, HSBC debited two amounts, totalling 
£9,961.15. Ive seen that these amounts were a return  of partial  payments to the 
respective senders. Given the information  that the bank held about these payments, I 
think this was reasonable in the circumstances too.
HSBC ultimately closed Mr As accounts which, in line with the terms and conditions,  it 
was allowed to do. Again it could do so immediately and without notice in certain 
circumstances, which I think was legitimate here. That led to it calling in the debt that 
Mr A owed. I can appreciate that this put a strain on Mr As business. But the 
borrowing was repayable on demand in certain circumstances. Im satisfied  this was 
reasonable in the circumstances here.
So from what Ive seen  so far, I dont  think HSBC did anything  wrong  in its suspension  
and closure of Mr As accounts. And so while I do appreciate that this matter has had 
significant repercussions for Mr A and his business, I dont think  the bank is 
responsible for any loss or inconvenience hes suffered.
Ref: DRN93852233HSBC accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr A didnt. He responded with a detailed 
submission, highlighting a number of background facts that he thought Id failed to take into 
account. And in terms of the points at issue, he said in summary that:
The terms and conditions that Id referred  to werent the ones hed signed  up to when 
the accounts were  opened in 2009. Regardless, he questioned the fairness and 
legality of those  terms. And he thought that Id placed too much weight upon  them.
Hed had a long-standing relationship with HSBC across  a number of accounts (more  
than the two Id referred to) and theyd always been properly managed.  And he was a 
credible person running a legitimate business. Further, the bank had completed a 
Know Your Customer (KYC)  review as recently as Summer 2018  so itd had the 
opportunity to express any concerns  then (which it hadnt).
HSBC had failed  in maintaining its duty of care towards him  rather, it had applied  a 
draconian measure and sought  to make an example of him. And it hadnt given him 
a fair hearing on the matter, when hed always been forthcoming and engaging. It 
had also declined to present evidence  to him of anything untoward.
The matter had affected his wellbeing and financial  losses of just under £48,000, at 
least. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr As further submission. But 
having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion from that of my provisional decision. 
Ill explain  why Mr As further points havent changed my mind.
Firstly, I should point  out that I wont be commenting  on each and every point that Mr A has 
made. He has submitted  a detailed statement comprising 41 numbered points, along with 
some additional  documentation. But in keeping with the informal nature  of our service,  my 
written findings concentrate on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached 
my decision.  I hope Mr A wont  see that as discourteous  and I can assure  him that Ive 
taken into account  everything hes said and provided.
Mr A has made a number  of points about the background to this matter  and the history  of his 
relationship with the bank. I should highlight that I was aware of both the long-standing 
nature of the relationship  beforehand, and the recent KYC check. I also note that Mr A had 
more than the two accounts I referred  to, but the matters at issue  relate to those accounts  
and so theyve  taken prominence in my findings. Similarly I have no cause to question Mr As 
legitimacy or credibility, or the prosperity of his business  and I do note that he responded 
to HSBCs requests for information during the review.
Ultimately though, neither the pre-existing relationship   however healthy  nor Mr As 
credibility (or co-operation)  mean that HSBC  ought  to have handled  this matter any 
differently once it was alerted to an issue with the funds received in November 2018. And 
from what Ive seen  it had no cause to question things any earlier than it did. 
Ref: DRN93852234The crux of the matter  here is that the £7,182 credit in November 2018 was recalled by the 
senders bank on the basis that its customer hadnt authorised the transaction.  Mr A hasnt 
said or submitted  anything that would lead me to a different view of that. This transaction  led 
the bank to review  Mr As accounts, and ultimately its relationship with him. I still think that 
was reasonable  in the circumstances, as was the return  of funds. 
Mr A queries  the legitimacy  of this action in light of the terms and conditions, on which  he 
believes Ive placed  too much weight.  But the terms and conditions arent the only factor I 
cited in my provisional decision. As I also highlighted, the bank has a number  of legal and 
regulatory obligations to fulfil and Im still satisfied that it was seeking  to discharge those in 
the actions it took here. The terms and conditions are important in facilitating  those actions.
Im also still satisfied that the terms and conditions allowed the bank to do what  it did. Mr A 
says they werent  the terms and conditions that he signed up to. Thats correct, but they are 
the ones that were  in force at the time.  Conditions are updated  periodically  and those  in 
question have superseded  the ones that wouldve applied when the account was opened. 
Thats standard industry practice. So too are the conditions and powers at issue. While Mr A 
has queried the fairness of the conditions,  hes not provided any persuasive arguments or 
evidence for me to assess as to why that would be the case.  In any event, only a court could  
make a finding as to whether a contractual term is unfair in law. My role is to consider 
whether the bank has acted unfairly  and for all the reasons Ive set out here and in my 
provisional decision, I dont think it has.
I note that Mr A accepts  HSBC did have the right to conduct some level of investigation and 
review but is understandably unhappy  with the impact that it had on him and his business.  
He questions the timescale and the openness.  But on the former,  as I said in my provisional 
decision, Ive not found any undue delay. It did take a long time to conclude,  but Ive not 
found any periods  of unreasonable  inaction or delay. And while  I do appreciate  Mr A remains 
dissatisfied with the lack of explanation  hes received, the bank isnt obliged to provide any 
more detail than it has and in the circumstances here I cant reasonably  compel it to do so.
I dont underestimate  both the emotional  and financial impact  all of this has had on Mr A and 
his business, of which I am sorry to see. But for me to direct HSBC  to compensate him for 
this, Id need to find that it acted unfairly. And for the reasons Ive explained I dont think it 
did.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9385223