K820x#14complaint
Mr T says HSBC  Bank  Plc (trading as first direct) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr T took out PPI when  he applied for a credit card by phone in 2004.  It provided him with 
cover against sickness, accident  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to PPI complaints is set out on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
 Mr T doesnt  recall PPI being  mentioned  or offered as an optional  extra.  There  is no 
call recording  or sales script available so I cant know  what  was said on the call. But 
Mr T was sent an application form to sign after the call and this included  the options to 
select or decline PPI. They were set out with equal  prominence and Mr T ticked  the 
box indicating that he wanted the cover. Ive thought carefully  about  Mr Ts comments, 
but I have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect 
what he recalls.  Overall,  I think HSBC made  Mr T aware the PPI was optional, and he 
chose to take it. 
 I dont think HSBC  recommended  the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr T to decide whether the policy  was right for him 
bearing in mind his ability to make his credit  card repayments if he was unable to work  
or lost his job.
 Its possible  the information HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it
should have been. But it doesnt seem Mr T wouldve been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and it had a 
reasonable benefit.
Mr T says he had a secure  job with good  sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to his work  benefits which couldve been  useful at a difficult  time  especially if 
Mr T mightve faced additional costs  as a result  of being ill or disabled. The PPI also 
gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. This wouldve protected any lump sum Mr T 
was entitled to from his job, giving him more financial  security.  So I can understand 
why someone with his work benefits might  still want to have PPI as well. Overall, I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped him buying  it. 
Ref: DRN95652552my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9565255