K820x#14complaint
Ms K is unhappy because  Society of Lloyds declined  her claim under her legal expenses  
insurance policy. 
All references to Society of Lloyds include their claims handlers.
background
Ms K had a new roof installed  on her property abroad in 2009 by a contractor, L. She 
noticed some leaks and contacted L, but received  no response. Sometime  later water came 
through the roof which caused damage to a supporting beam that started  to separate.  A 
neighbour who looked after the property in her absence reported there was an electricity 
failure caused by the water ingress, which resulted in a light exploding when it was switched 
on.
Ms K said she became aware of the problems in November 2017, following which she made 
a claim on her holiday home insurance policy for the damage.  This claim was declined. Ms K 
says she then contacted Ls insurance provider in February 2018 to claim an indemnity but it 
was slow to progress her claim.  After  this, Ms K made a claim on her legal expenses 
insurance policy for cover to pursue Ls insurer.
Society of Lloyds declined the claim and said Ms Ks claim related  to a contract dispute with 
L. It also said she was aware of the problem in November 2017,  and her policy  didnt start 
until February 2018. Because of this there  was no cover  available. Lloyds also pointed  out 
that Ms Ks previous  policy lapsed  in November 2017, so there  was a gap in cover  between 
then, until her new policy started. In addition Lloyds thought that the claim might  be 
excluded because the policy limits claims for contract disputes exceeding £5,000.
 
Ms K acknowledged there was a gap in legal expenses insurance  cover but she thought her 
claim was one that should still be covered. Thats because she says she became aware of 
the issues that gave rise to the claim when Ls insurer didnt act quickly  enough.  Because  of 
this she feels Lloyds  should accept the claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. She said Ms K was aware of 
events which  likely  would have led to claim before  the policy was in place, which was 
specifically excluded.
Ms K disagreed with the investigators findings. She said her claim didnt relate  to the 
damage to her property  in 2017.  Rather she maintains that her holiday home insurer 
declined her claim, which was why she claimed  on Ls insurance  and the dispute with that 
insurer started in April 2018. Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms 
Ks complaint. Ill explain why below. Before I do, I wanted to reassure Ms K that Ive 
considered everything  shes  said. I know that she wanted to provide further clarification 
about the history  of her claim. And I note that it was explained to her that she would  need  to 
provide documents or evidence to support the points  shed raised. Although  she hasnt 
provided anything  since, I have taken her points into account when reaching my conclusion.
Ref: DRN93422222The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that an insurer  has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive mentioned  this 
because this is the key test Ive applied when making my decision.  
insured event
Ms K has said the insured  event  wasnt her awareness of the problems with the roof. Rather 
she feels the dispute she was claiming  for was Ls insurer not acting quickly to settle  her 
claim. But I dont agree.  I say this because the policy describes certain insured events which  
are covered.  The most relevant  section is the one which provides cover  a:
A dispute arising out of an agreement or alleged agreement which the insured has entered  
into for
b) buying or hiring  good  or services  for your holiday home.
So the policy  would only cover her for a contract dispute with L installing her roof. And 
theres no cover for Ms K to bring a claim against  Ls insurance provider. That sort of claim is 
expressly excluded  under the same section  of the policy.  This was why Lloyds considered  
Ms Ks claim under the contract section of the policy.
previous policy
Its not in dispute  that Ms K had the same cover in November  2017 or that there was a gap 
in cover between mid-November 2017 and 31 January 2018. So essentially there we two 
policies the claim could fall under. And both policies were what the industry calls claims 
made policies. That means the claim had to be made during the period of insurance  and in 
this case, when the policyholder first became aware of the circumstances which  gave rise to 
a claim.  Ms K didnt make a claim in November 2017, which  is when she says she became  
aware of the problems  with her property, nor did she claim for them  within the same policy  
year. Because there was a gap in cover,  we wouldnt  consider it reasonable for Lloyds to 
cover her claim  in subsequent policy years. Wed only think this is fair if her cover was 
continuous and there was no prejudice  to an insurer in accepting  such  a claim. 
new policy
Similarly, Ms Ks new policy also contains terms which  prevent her from making  a claim 
about insured  events  which she was aware  of before the policy  started. It excludes
2. any actual or alleged act or omission  or dispute happening before, or existing at the 
start of the policy and which  the insured believed or ought reasonably to have believed could 
lead to a claim under  this policy
I know that Ms K doesnt think the problems she discovered with her property led to the 
dispute she currently has with Ls insurer, but I dont  think that matters. Thats because the 
thing that gave rise to the claim in this case was the damage to her property which  is 
something she was aware of when she took insurance out with Lloyds. 
For the reasons  set out above, I think it was reasonable for Society of Lloyds to decline Ms 
Ks claim  in the way that they did. 
Ref: DRN93422223my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint against  Society  of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
 
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9342222