K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) to her. 
background
In 1997 Mrs S took a credit card from Lloyds and sometime  between  then and 2006 was 
sold PPI to protect her repayments on the card. Mrs S thinks it was at the same time she 
took out the card in a branch of the bank.
Mrs S told us about several  cards shed taken out with Lloyds over the years and weve 
given her our view about whether she had PPI or not on some  of them.  For clarity,  this 
decision is only about the card she took out in 1997.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
 Mrs S says she thought she had to have the PPI because shed been  told she needed  
it on a loan shed  taken previously. She doesnt remember PPI being  discussed when 
she took out the card,  which  is understandable  given  it was so long ago. From what  we 
know of how Lloyds  sold these  policies between 1997 and 2006 it did make customers 
aware they had a choice about buying PPI. I havent seen anything that persuades  me 
the bank treated  Mrs S differently from other  customers, so I think Lloyds made  Mrs S 
aware that the PPI was optional and she chose  to take it.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs S chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mrs S would have made a different decision  if better  information  had been provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about getting a refund  
of premiums shed paid on other policies. I dont know the circumstances surrounding  those 
sales or why Lloyds refunded the money. Im making this decision based only on the 
evidence provided  about this particular  sale. So this point  doesnt  change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN96882142my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  28 February 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688214