K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold Mrs S payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  Mrs S is also unhappy with how Bank  of Scotland  handled her 
complaint about  that sale.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1992 when Mrs S took 
out, it seems, a further advance on a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  the same  overall  
conclusion as the adjudicator but for different reasons. So I wrote a provisional  decision and 
asked everyone to comment. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
PPI mis-selling complaint
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Ive considered all 
Mrs Ss comments. However,  my current view is that I should  not uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Bank of Scotland has assessed  the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to 
Mrs S. This means it had a higher standard to meet when selling the policy   it had to 
make sure that it was suitable for Mrs Ss circumstances. I think thats a fair way to 
approach the complaint. 
But, even  if it did recommend the PPI, I dont think it was an unsuitable 
recommendation, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time. Its 
likely Mrs S was eligible for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have  paid benefits at the same time 
as Mrs S received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would pay 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off 
the time when shed  need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have 
had for paying  the mortgage,  if indeed  she had any. This would have put Mrs S in a 
more secure position, if shed eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI 
when she took it out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and Bank of Scotlands  
recommendation (if it made one) was suitable. To my mind, the fact she successfully 
claimed under the policy supports the view that it was generally suitable  for her.
Mrs S says that she became unemployed in 1997, but was only allowed to claim for 
six months. Shes said this was because,  after this time, the social security office 
declined to sign her insurance claim forms as she became ineligible to claim 
unemployment benefits. She says this was because her husband  was in work. At that 
point she says the insurer declined to make  further payments even though  she 
Ref: DRN99279422remained out of work.  She thinks that Bank of Scotland should have made her aware 
of this limitation and, as a result, it mis-sold  the PPI. She says she wouldnt have paid 
premiums for so many years if shed known what limited benefits shed get. She feels  
it made the policy unsuitable for her. But I dont agree.
I have looked  at the terms and conditions that are likely to have applied to the policy  
at the time  the earliest  relevant policy document available  is dated a few months  
later than the date the PPI was sold. They define  unemployment as a period during 
which you are unable  to carry out your usual occupation or profession,  and during  
which you are registered  with the Department of Employment  and receiving National 
Insurance credits.  
The terms and conditions  document  also says benefit will not be paid unless the 
Insured Customer has made  and continues to make since the date on which he 
became unemployed, a genuine attempt to obtain gainful employment. And to make 
a successful claim its necessary to get a benefit office official to complete part of the 
claim form.
I dont know exactly what happened  with her claim or why, but I cant  see that Bank 
of Scotland could  reasonably have  foreseen the difficulties that Mrs S says she had 
in claiming. And Ive looked at the requirements of the policy  for claiming,  and these 
arent especially unusual  or onerous. So, although I dont know what was discussed  
or what information Mrs S was given, I dont think these claiming requirements made 
the PPI unsuitable. Nor was there any reason for Bank of Scotland to have drawn  
Mrs Ss particular  attention to them. 
Alternatively, it may have  been that the insurer was wrong in refusing to continue  to 
pay the claim in Mrs Ss circumstances. I dont  have enough information to form a 
view on that. The insurer is a different organisation to the one that sold the PPI to 
Mrs S. As our adjudicator has previously mentioned, if she so wished Mrs S would 
need first to complain to the insurer about that, before we would be able to look into 
it.
Ive looked at other possible ways in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. But my 
current view is that these  dont apply:
I dont have evidence  the PPI was presented as compulsory  or added without 
Mrs Ss consent  and indeed Mrs S isnt saying this. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of 
the policy. But I dont  anyway think full and clear  information about the costs 
would have affected whether Mrs S took the PPI (and the same  conclusion, 
explained above, applies to the problem Mrs S says she had in claiming the 
benefits). 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things (such  as 
pre-existing medical conditions) the policy  didnt  cover. But its unlikely Mrs S 
would have been affected by any of these. And shed be paying for the PPI 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without  further cost if her situation 
changed.
Ref: DRN99279423Finally, there is one more  point Mrs S should  consider.  It isnt relevant to my decision 
on whether the PPI was mis-sold. But, if the complaint were upheld, Mrs S would 
normally be entitled to a refund of the premiums she paid less any amounts shed 
received in claim payments (and interest would also usually be payable by Bank  of 
Scotland). I dont  have the figures  available to me but, given that Mrs S has already 
been paid a large amount  for her claim, it may well be that the amount of 
compensation payable in the event of an uphold  of the complaint would be small  it 
might even be less than shes already received, meaning she wouldnt be entitled to 
anything more. I think its fair that I make Mrs S aware of this. 
Bank of Scotlands handling of the complaint
Ive looked at Bank of Scotlands  explanation of how it handled Mrs Ss complaint, 
and which  the adjudicator  referred to in her opinion. 
I can see that Mrs S was caused inconvenience  in clarifying Bank  of Scotlands 
response. That was unfortunate.  But I dont  think it was so significant that I should 
require Bank  of Scotland to take further action on the issue or make any payment to 
compensate it. 
I didnt receive any comments on my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I am not upholding  this complaint, for the reasons  given above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9927942