K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan in December 2004.
The PPI was paid for through a regular premium paid monthly. Although this was a joint loan 
the policy only provided cover for Mrs M.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr M and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.  
When selling  the PPI to Mr M and Mrs M, BoS shouldve made  it clear  the policy  was 
optional. It also shouldve  got their agreement to take it out. Mr M and Mrs M say they didnt 
know PPI had been added and they did not agree to it.  It seems the PPI was sold during a 
meeting. BoS has provided a sample  of the loan application form. On this I can see below 
the heading Protecting your payments there  is an option to sign for PPI. There  is also an 
option to decline  it. And following the completion  of this form Mr M and Mrs M signed a 
personal loan agreement.  BoS has provided us with the one they actually completed. The 
form has a section for the PPI and this has been marked with an x to opt for the policy.  I 
think a conversation took place between Mr M and Mrs M and BoSs employee and the form 
has been completed based  on what was discussed and then printed out for Mr M and Mrs M 
to read and sign. And Mr M and Mrs M signed the form so I think  if there  was anything on the 
form they werent sure about or hadn't agreed to, they would've had the opportunity  to 
question it at the time.  
Overall, I think Mr M and Mrs M ought to have been  aware of the PPI, that it was optional, 
and that they chose  to go ahead with it. Although given how long ago the meeting took 
place, I can understand  why they cant remember this.
BoS advised Mr M and Mrs M to take out PPI. As it only covered Mrs M, it should have taken 
steps to check if the PPI was right for her. I dont know if it did, but I think  it was right for her 
in any case because:
From  what Mrs Ms told us about her circumstances at the time, I think  she was eligible 
for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by any of the main  things the PPI didnt 
cover or limited  cover  for. So there was nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of the 
policy if shed needed to.
Mrs Ms told us she wouldve received sick pay from her employer. The PPI couldve 
been of use to Mrs M as it wouldve paid until the end of the loan for a single disability 
claim if Mrs M had made a successful  claim.  It also paid unemployment benefits for up to 
12 months per claim. This wouldve been on top of any sick pay she wouldve got, 
meaning she wouldve  been able to use this for other everyday living expenses.
Ref: DRN98692732Mr M and Mrs M say they had some savings they couldve used. But the PPI wouldve 
allowed them to keep  these savings intact.  So I think the PPI offered  them  useful 
protection.
I havent seen  anything to suggest this wasnt affordable to Mr M and Mrs M. And as the 
policys premiums were  paid monthly, they could have  cancelled  it if it no longer met Mrs 
Ms needs.
BoS also had to give Mr M and Mrs M enough  information for them to make to make an 
informed decision about taking the PPI. Its possible the information BoS gave Mr M and Mrs 
M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Mrs M and their representatives have said, but these 
points dont change  my decision  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI 
was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9869273