K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited  (the trading name now for NRAM  Plc) 
made errors with his mortgage account.
background
Mr C complains that after the business ownership of his mortgage changed hands in 2016  
three payments he made were not redirected.  He had also previously asked that the two 
parts of his mortgage be consolidated and this hasnt happened.  The term of one of the parts  
of his mortgage is different to the mortgage  offer. And the interest rate on his mortgage is too 
high. He wants Landmark to consolidate his arrears and accept his offer for monthly  
payments.
The investigator did not recommend that Landmark do anything more than it had offered to. 
She said that Landmark had written in advance  of the change  of ownership to Mr C with the 
new details for his payments. This service had considered a complaint  before about the 
consolidation of the parts to the mortgage and we wouldnt look at that again. The term of 
one part of his mortgage had been  treated as five months less than the mortgage offer 
document. Landmark had offered to review this and pay him compensation of £100. The 
interest rate had been fixed originally but was now at a standard  variable  rate set by 
Landmark. Mr C would  need to contact the arrears team at Landmark  to discuss his 
payments. 
Mr C did not agree. He said that the interest rate should have reduced in line with Bank of 
England Base Rate after the fixed interest  period on his mortgage  ended in 2009.  Hed 
asked for both parts of his mortgage  to be consolidated and Landmark  had not done  this. He 
had made  his mortgage payments on time and his name was given with the faster payment. 
His bank had later sent two payments  by mistake and Landmark had not mentioned  this and 
so his bank had needed to recover this from Landmark. The compensation is not sufficient 
for the error  with the term of the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im looking  here at the points Mr C has both complained to Landmark about and referred to 
us and Ill deal with these in turn.
Landmark has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr C about his mortgage payments when 
the ownership of the business  changed. That gave the new account details for payments. 
Ive no reason to think that this was not correctly sent. And Landmark did not say it would be 
able to redirect payments  made to the previous account. I dont see its looked  at a complaint 
about two payments being sent in error  by Mr Cs bank. But from what he says it was his 
bank that had a software issue and acted to resolve this - and so this seems to have been  
addressed.
A decision was issued to Mr C in 2014 by this service following a previous complaint he 
made about this mortgage. It is clear from the decision that the point he then made about the 
two parts  of his mortgage having not been consolidated was considered.  Landmark  has no 
evidence hes since asked for it to be consolidated.
Ref: DRN93908682Mr Cs mortgage offer in 2006 said he would be charged a fixed  rate of interest  until 1 
November 2009.  After that the rate would be a standard variable one. There  was no 
commitment made that this standard variable rate would fall in line with Bank  of England  
Base Rate. It is set at the commercial discretion  of Landmark. So although I appreciate Mr C 
thinks the rate hes been paying is too high I dont have a basis to ask Landmark to reduce  it.
The mortgage offer also set out that both parts of the mortgage  would start with the same 
term  19 years and five months. In error payments  for the smaller second part have been 
based on a term that started at 19 years. That means theyve been higher than they should 
have been but also that Mr C will pay less interest. Landmark has offered to review  the term. 
And it has offered  Mr C £100 in compensation. I dont think hes lost out financially and I 
think the compensation is reasonable.
I know Mr C wanted to consolidate arrears and for Landmark to agree the monthly payment 
he gave. It said in its final response letter to him in March 2018 that he would need  to 
contact its helpdesk. Hes not made  any further points about this issue. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed when I say that the compensation Landmark  has offered 
him for this complaint  is reasonable. And I wont be asking it to do anything  further
my final decision
My decision  is that Landmark Mortgages Limited should pay Mr C £100  as it has offered to 
do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9390868