K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the increase in premiums theyre required to pay for 
their whole of life policy sold to them by a business which  is now the responsibility of Aviva  
Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Background
Mr and Mrs H took out a reviewable whole of life policy  in October  1986.  The initial sum 
assured was £40,000 and the premium  was just over £26 per month.
Over the years the policy wasnt reviewed entirely  in line with its terms and conditions. 
However, when Aviva  took over the policy  it did a number of things to the policy to rectify the 
effects of any mistakes in its administration  by the previous business. This included  adding 
units to the policy to ensure that Mr and Mrs H were not disadvantaged.  Aviva  also 
established a regular review system. And throughout its work on the policy  Aviva  kept 
Mr and Mrs H informed via regular letters.
The policy underwent its regular reviews from 2001 onwards. In the 2018  review it was found  
that not enough was being paid into the policy to maintain the initial  sum assured.  It was 
explained to Mr and Mrs H that if they wanted to keep their premiums as they were the policy 
benefit would have to reduce to £21,409.  Alternatively, they could increase their monthly 
payments to just over £116 to keep  the benefit  at £40,000.
This is what  prompted Mr and Mrs H to complain. They have said they dont remember being 
told about the reviewable nature of the policy and thought the sum assured was guaranteed  
for life. Because of this they feel the policy was mis-sold to them.
Aviva investigated this complaint and was satisfied  the policy was suitably sold. It was also 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs H had been provided with all the policy details at the time of the 
sale that explained the policy was reviewable and what  that meant. It did however 
acknowledge that there had been  problems with the previous business administering the 
policy (as mentioned  above), for which it offered £250, but it also set out clearly what  it had 
done to get the policy  back on track.  
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  with Avivas response and so brought the complaint to this 
Service. They said that they were specifically told the death benefit was guaranteed  and 
were never told the monthly premiums could  increase. They also said they never  received 
the policy booklet when they took the policy out and the first time they saw this was in 
January 2019  when  they made their complaint to Aviva and had they known the death 
benefit wasnt guaranteed  they wouldnt have taken  the policy and would have looked for an 
alternative.
They also said that they had received letters from Aviva about the policy  over the years  but 
didnt take any notice of them and misunderstood  them to be about bonuses  they thought 
were applied to the policy.
Ref: DRN92734992The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
couldnt carry out a full suitability assessment because neither party was able to provide full 
documentation from the time of the sale because of how long ago it took place. However,  
from the little she had been provided with she was satisfied Mr and Mrs H had a need for a 
long-term life protection policy which provided a lump  sum of cash  upon the death. So in 
view of that she was satisfied the policy was suitably sold.  
She also was satisfied that the policy documents set out in clear  fashion how the policy 
worked including its reviewable nature. She felt that it was very likely Mr and Mrs H had 
been given these documents at the time of the sale as that is what would normally  happen, 
and so it was their responsibility to ensure they were  familiar with the policy they were  taking  
out. She also considered the letters that had been  sent to Mr and Mrs H over the years and 
felt these also explained the policy was reviewable  and what that meant.  And given 
Mr and Mrs H had said they had received  them she felt that Mr and Mrs H had been  
informed correctly over the years.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the assessment  and remained of the view the policy had 
been mis sold. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
I appreciate that to be told about the decrease in the death benefit  and the increase required 
in the premiums came a shock  to Mr and Mrs H. But ultimately  this is how reviewable  whole  
of life policies  work.  So Aviva  hasnt done anything wrong in asking for a higher premium or 
proposing to lower  the death  benefit.
Reviews are part of the contract Mr and Mrs H signed up to and their function is to 
specifically ascertain whether enough is being paid into the policy,  taking account of the 
investment element, to provide the death  benefit at the required time. Given these policies  
are usually in place for tens of years  it is simply impossible for the death benefit to remain 
the same  as well as the premiums. The cost of living increases as one gets older, as do 
mortality rates and these  are a couple  of factors that are taken into account when reviewing 
the policy and calculating the increases/decreases  required. The criteria  of the calculations 
are largely the same industry wide and so are not specific to Aviva.  Ultimately this is the 
nature of these types of policies. An increase in the premiums will usually always  be required 
for reviewable whole  of life policies if they continue to run more than ten years.
I know Mr and Mrs H have said they were  not made aware when they took the policy that it 
was reviewable  and what that could  mean  further down the line. But I obviously wasnt  
present when the policy was sold nor is there a lot of information  from the time of the sale for 
me to be certain this was actually the case, so I cant comment on what  was discussed. But 
I do know that the policy documents explained  all these facts  and more, and this would have 
been given to Mr and Mrs H when they agreed  to take the policy. I know  they have this said 
didnt happen  but I think this is very unlikely. I dont  think they would have signed  a contract 
to pay for a policy and accepted not being  given any information about it to take away  with 
them. 
Ref: DRN92734993However, in any event Mr and Mrs H have confirmed they did receive  letters from Aviva over 
the years  about  the reviews of their policy and changes that had to be made. So, I think they 
would have been aware of the reviewable nature for some time. And if they didnt 
understand what the letters were  telling them it was their responsibility  to question Aviva  
about it to ensure they knew exactly what this policy provided them with. The fact they didnt 
take any notice  of the letters, by their own admission, isnt something  that Aviva  can be held 
responsible for.
I know Mr and Mrs H have said that they wouldnt have taken this policy  out had they known  
the death benefit amount  wasnt guaranteed,  but the only other policy  which would have 
provided them with long term life cover for no specific term was a non-reviewable whole of 
life policy. And while  this would have been  available the premiums at the outset would have 
been around £130 per month  for £40,000  worth of life cover.  So given Mr and Mrs H say 
they cant pay the new increase in premium now I think its unlikely they would have paid this 
amount from the point  of sale in 1986. Therefore,  the policy they took was really  the only one 
that met their needs.
There is no doubt that some errors have occurred through the administration  of the policy,  
but I am satisfied Aviva  has tried to correct  these.  
To give some background I can see that this policy worked slightly  different to the similar 
policies originating from Aviva. This policy when  under the administration  of the other 
business didnt  default to the benefit reduction after a failed review which is usually the case 
with other  whole of life policies. The intention was to confirm  the recommended  cover level 
provided by the current premium and if lower than the existing benefit give the option  to 
reduce the benefit to this amount. If no changes were made then the chosen  benefit couldnt 
be guaranteed  to be maintained until the next review.
Aviva has explained  that it cant confirm whether  or not the policy was reviewed in 1996 but 
all reviewable policies  emanating from this particular  business before  Aviva took it over were 
checked in 2000 and letters were  sent to all policy holders either  suggesting a premium  
increase or benefit reduction or confirming the current premium would maintain the benefit 
until the next review.  Aviva say this was effectively  the 2001  review for Mr and Mrs Hs 
policy.
Aviva accept the 2006 review wasnt issued but a remediation  letter was sent in 2008 where 
Mr and Mrs H were reminded about the regular reviews and were explained how much  had 
been added  to their policy  to ensure  the original benefit of £40,000  would remain  until the 
next review in 2011. Aviva did this because of the previous errors it had identified. 
Mr and Mrs H were also given the option of making no change. As well as this the 
rectification letter Aviva sent in 2016  explained that choosing to make no change  this time 
would mean  the benefit was no longer guaranteed and if the fund value ran out the benefit 
would immediately reduce. 
In light of this information,  therefore, I am satisfied  the offer Aviva  has made of £250  for 
these errors  is sufficient and that it has put the policy into the correct  position had those 
errors not occurred. 
Turning now to the suitability of the policy, it is first important to point out that the policy was 
sold in 1989 before the introduction of the Financial Services Act. This means that a full 
suitability assessment didnt need to be carried out by the business  selling the policy nor did 
Ref: DRN92734994it have to be documented. All that needed  to happen  was for the policy  to be largely 
appropriate for Mr and Mrs Hs needs.
So, in view of that it is difficult  for me to review  the suitability aspect of the policy in full. 
There is also very limited information that has been  provided by both parties from the time of 
the sale. However, from the information that has been provided  I can see that Mr and Mrs H 
wanted a policy that provided them with long term family protection.  So, on that basis  this 
policy did meet that need so I cant say it was mis-sold.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs H. As frustrating as it is to have to either 
accept a lower death benefit or pay more  into the policy this is simply how these whole of life 
policies work. While I dont know for sure what Mr and Mrs H were told when they took out 
the policy, I think its likely they would have been  given  the correct  information and also 
information they have received in the following years also highlighted the reviews. I am also 
satisfied that Aviva  has corrected the policy after errors in the past and has conducted  the 
reviews correctly. 
I therefore dont  think the policy was mis-sold and I dont think  Aviva has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9273499