K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains MBNA  Limited (MBNA) didnt tell him when the promotional  rate on his 
credit card account was due to end.
background
Mr A brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy  with MBNAs letter in response to his 
complaint. That final response letter (FRL) was dated 10 September 2018. Mr A was also 
unhappy that MBNA had given him conflicting information about how theyd notified him the 
promotional rate was coming to an end. As when he phoned MBNA on 4 September  2018 to 
lodge the complaint they told him a text had been  sent but the FRL referred to an email.  
In their FRL MBNA refused Mr As request to refund the interest hed been charged since  the 
end of the promotional rate as on 12 July 2018 theyd sent Mr A an email to inform him the 
promotional rate was coming to an end. And because Mr As monthly  statement showed  the 
current rates  and when  any promotional rates will be coming  to an end.  
Our adjudicator thought MBNA had handled  Mr As complaint fairly. He thought  the inclusion 
of the end date for the promotional rate period on each of Mr As monthly statements was 
sufficient to make Mr A aware of when the period was due to end. And although he had seen  
evidence to support  an email was sent by MBNA  he didnt think  this affected the outcome as 
the monthly statements provided  the necessary information to Mr A. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.  He didnt think statements 
were a sufficient means of making  customers aware  of when promotional rates would end as 
they are no longer checked as they are all online. And although he wouldve accepted  the 
outcome if MBNA remained  consistent  he thought the error  about the method of 
communication was unacceptable.  Mr A told us it had cost him over two hours time on the 
phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not persuaded this is 
a complaint which I can properly uphold. Ill explain why.
The records  MBNA sent to this service satisfy me the email  of 12 July 2018 was sent.  I know 
Mr A says  he didnt receive  the email. I cant know whats happened to the email  after it was 
sent but I dont  think that matters. Even if I were to accept that Mr A didnt receive  it that 
doesnt change  my conclusions. This is because I think MBNA did enough  with the 
information on the monthly statements  to inform Mr A of the promotional rate of interest and 
when it would end.  
Mr A agreed to the terms and conditions on the account. Those terms are clear that when a 
promotional rate ends  any balance on the card will be charged at the standard rate for that 
transaction type. The monthly statements, up to and including that for 1 August 2018, display 
the promotional  rate and the end date. Mr A doesnt dispute this but told us he no longer  
checked statements  as they were online and didnt consider them  sufficient notice of when 
the promotion would end. But Im afraid  I disagree. Its Mr As responsibility to manage  this 
account within the terms and conditions he agreed  to. Theres nothing  to suggest the 
Ref: DRN91914662statements werent available and Mr As told us hes chosen  not to read them. So I cant  
reasonably say MBNA have done  anything  wrong  here.
I can understand Mr As concerns in being given conflicting information about  whether a text 
or email confirmation was sent. But, although I can understand thats  frustrating, I cant  see 
its caused Mr A any financial loss. So I wont be asking MBNA  to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9191466