K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) unfairly recorded 
adverse information  on her credit file after she had ended two hire purchase agreements  for 
two vehicles. 
background 
In April 2014 Mrs B entered into two separate hire purchase agreements for two cars. The 
agreements were for fours years each.  
After three years  Mrs B decided to return both cars and voluntary  terminated  the 
agreements. She received invoices from BWFS  for damage it said the cars had sustained 
that was outside fair wear and tear. Mrs B was also charged excess mileage for one of the 
vehicles. 
Mrs B disputed that the damage was outside  of the usual  wear and tear but agreed to pay 
the excess mileage fee. Mrs B complained  to BMWFS. 
BMWFS didnt uphold her complaint  that the damage invoices were unfair. It sent her a final 
response letter in August  2017 setting out that it had reviewed the reports on the condition of 
both cars,  and the charges were  inline with the guidelines issued by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA),  and so remained payable. BMWFS said that if 
Mrs B disagreed she was able to complain to this service within six months of the date of the 
letter. 
Mrs B didnt pay the invoices for the damage to the cars and BMWFS marked her credit file 
that the payments on each of the accounts  were  still outstanding. 
Mrs B complained to this service at the end of March 2018 about  the information  recorded 
on her credit  file by BMWFS. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that her complaint should be 
upheld. He said that under the agreements Mrs B was liable for any refurbishment costs  if 
the cars werent  returned in good  repair and condition. 
Mrs B had disputed the refurbishment invoices with BMWFS in July 2017 and it had replied 
in August 2017 that it was satisfied  the charges were fair and reasonable. BMWFS had 
informed Mrs B that she had to complain to this service within six months  if she was 
unhappy at its response.  Mrs B had complained after seven months meaning that her 
complaint about  the damage  invoices  was outside of this services jurisdiction. 
Our adjudicator said he was aware Mrs B had made  an earlier  complaint to this service  in 
November 2016  about the agreements having been mis-sold to her. He said this complaint  
had been closed in June  2017.
Ref: DRN95219362Our adjudicator said that BMWFS had placed late payment  markers  on Mrs Bs account and 
these had been recorded on her credit file. He said he was satisfied that on the balance  of 
probabilities Mrs B had been aware  she could  be charged for the condition  of the car 
following voluntary  termination of the agreements. And that since  maintaining the cars was 
part of the agreements the late payment markers  were correctly applied  to the accounts as 
the payments  for the refurbishment costs werent made within  time.
Our adjudicator said that although the payments had now been made this was after over 18 
months had passed  since  the date of the invoices. He said he didnt think  BMWFS  was 
required to take any corrective action.
Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said that the wear and tear repairs had 
been disputed  from the outset and that it had been disregarded that shed  paid the 
agreements each month without fail until she had terminated them. Mrs B said that BMWFS 
needed to follow the debt process which is debt recovery and a County Court Judgement to 
be able to mark her credit  file. The dispute  had been about charges outside of the 
agreement and so werent part of the contract.
Mrs B also said that she disagreed her original complaint had been closed and that her 
complaint about  the refurbishment  invoices  wasnt outside of the time-limit for this service  to 
be able to investigate.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that in November  2016  Mrs B complained to this service about being  mis-sold the 
two hire purchase agreements. She said she had been told she would be able to terminate 
the two hire purchase agreements without facing additional costs after two years but had 
then discovered that this was incorrect. While  Mrs Bs complaint was being looked at she 
decided to terminate  both of the agreements and hand the cars back.
During her first complaint Mrs B raised  the issue of the refurbishment invoices shed 
received after handing the cars back, but she was told by this service that it wouldnt be able 
to look at or comment on that issue until it had gone  through BMWFSs  complaint  procedure 
first. This meant she would need  to make a separate complaint to BMWFS about that matter 
first. Mrs B was told that this service would focus  on her mis-sale  complaint.
BMWFS agreed  to make a goodwill payment to Mrs B as a full and final settlement of her 
complaint about  the mis-selling issue. Mrs B accepted this outcome and said she would deal 
with the other aspects  of her complaint later. This service  closed  Mrs Bs complaint and, 
looking at the correspondence, I think its reasonable to think that Mrs B would have been 
aware that this service  considered her complaint as concluded.
Ive seen that Mrs B disputed the refurbishment invoices with BMWFS in July 2017 and this 
complaint went through BMWFSs complaints  procedure. BWMFS issued its final response 
letter in August 2017 which informed  Mrs B that if she was unhappy at its decision she could 
complain to this service within six months. Ive seen this final response  letter  set out in detail  
Ref: DRN95219363why BWMFS disagreed that the charges were unfair and provided Mrs B with copies of the 
reports prepared when  the cars had been inspected.
Mrs B complained to this service about  BMWFSs  actions in regards to her credit  file at the 
end of March  2018.  Her complaint also included that she thought the refurbishment charges 
had been unfair and that she disputed the invoices. This complaint was made  seven months 
after BMWFS had provided  its final response to Mrs B about the invoices.
Our rules (the DISP  rules, as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook)  set out 
the procedures  and requirements  for this service to be able to consider a complaint. One of 
these requirements is that a complaint must be brought to this service within  certain time-
limits (see DISP 2.8.2 R and DISP  2.8.7 R). If it isnt then the business needs to consent to 
us looking at it and if a business doesnt  consent  to a late referral then we arent able 
investigate. The time-limits run from the date of the final response  letter  sent from the 
business to the consumer and here the time-limit  was six months.
Our adjudicator said that the part of Mrs Bs complaint concerning  the fairness of the actual 
invoices was out of date.  Ive checked whether BMWFS would  accept a late complaint about  
the invoices and it said that it wouldnt be willing to do so and therefore the service has no 
jurisdiction to deal with it. The time-limit for complaints was clearly set out in BMWFSs letter 
to Mrs B. I might have  been able to consider the complaint if there  were  exceptional 
circumstances as to why Mrs B had made  a late complaint  but she hasnt provided  me with 
any reason for the delay.  
So, taking this all in to account, Im satisfied Mrs Bs complaint about the refurbishment 
invoices is not within the jurisdiction of this service. However, this doesnt apply to Mrs Bs 
complaint about  the information  recorded  on her credit file by BMWFS  as that arose after her 
complaint about  the invoices.
Ive seen that BMWFS hasnt issued any default notices but what is recorded  on Mrs Bs 
credit file is that there are late payments on the two accounts. I accept this may have an 
impact on Mrs Bs credit file.
Mrs B says that BMWFS didnt have the right to mark  late payments on these accounts as 
she had made all the payments due under the agreements up until termination. But looking 
at the agreement Ive seen  that in the terms and conditions it says that the agreements can 
be terminated at any time,  but that the consumer will be liable to pay if you do not return the 
vehicle in good repair and condition, the sum required  to compensate  us for this. So I think 
any refurbishment costs are part of the agreement as under the agreements there was an 
obligation on Mrs B to maintain and repair the cars.  In any event I think BMWFS was entitled 
to record late payments on the invoices as they werent paid within the time-limit  provided.  
BWMFS is obliged to provide accurate information on the payments made to the credit 
reference agencies.
I appreciate that Mrs B has now paid these invoices off in full and there is nothing now 
owing. However, they werent cleared until after 18 months had passed  from the date of the 
original invoices. Mrs B was of course entitled  to challenge the invoices and did so, but then 
didnt follow  up the escalation process as provided  by BMWFS  in its final response letter. 
BWMFS is obliged to provide accurate information as to how an account is managed  but it 
has the discretion  to report missing or late payments  to the credit  reference agencies if there 
are disputes  as was the case here.  I cannot  say that the reporting  of these missing 
payments was unfair in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN95219364 Ive seen that when Mrs B enquired  about  voluntary terminating the agreements she was 
provided with an information  pack. I think this reinforced the information set out in the 
agreements about  maintaining the cars and also set out that there may be liability  for Mrs B 
if the cars were handed back requiring refurbishment that was outside fair wear  and tear.
So Im satisfied on the evidence that I have seen that BMWFS hasnt acted unfairly  in 
recording late payments  on Mrs Bs accounts and Im not asking it to correct that information. 
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9521936