K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about their home insurer  Fairmead  Insurance  Limited in 
relation to a claim  they made for water  damage, and which Fairmead  declined.
background
On 31 August 2018 Mr and Mrs B noticed droplets on the kitchen ceiling. The next day, 
before they had a chance to investigate the issue, part of the ceiling came down. On
5 September 2018 Mr and Mrs B contacted Fairmead. It said that, at this point, it was 
declining the claim,  unless  or until the leak was found and repaired and the policyholder 
could identify where it was from and the nature of the leak.  Fairmead said once it had this 
information it would review whether the policy would cover any trace  and access  work that 
had been done to find the leak and any water damage that had been caused  by the leak.
Mr and Mrs B had a contractor take down the remains of the kitchen ceiling on
20 September 2018 and he found leaks from two compression joints.  But he also found 
leaks from the basin,  bidet and shower.  He noted  at least one rotten joist. Mr and Mrs B 
contacted Fairmead  again. It felt it probably shouldnt  have  declined  the claim at the outset. 
It appointed a surveyor.
The surveyor felt the bathroom was in a poor state and there were multiple problem areas  
that might  be allowing  water through. He said it was impossible  to tell what problem area 
might have caused what damage. The surveyor said that given the state of the joists  it was 
likely that the ceiling would have been  showing signs of damage before the water droplets 
were reportedly noticed.
Fairmead reviewed matters and felt Mr and Mrs B hadnt shown that an insured event had 
occurred  or that damage had been  caused as result. It said it needed a full report from 
their plumber as to what trace and access work had been undertaken, what  had been 
found, what repairs had been undertaken and what damage the plumber felt the leaks/each 
leak had caused.
In November Mr and Mrs B had a plumber  complete  some repairs  his note of work says 
two leaks on basin  pipes  were fixed,  and the toilet and bidet were  removed  and fixed.
In December 2018 Fairmead issued a final response  to Mr and Mrs B. It said that having 
reviewed its surveyors report and photos, it felt the decision to decline the claim had been 
correct. It maintained that it needed  more evidence  to show what  leak had caused what 
damage, but it also said it was concerned that damage had likely been ongoing for a long 
time and that it would have been noticeable.  It noted that whilst Mr and Mrs B had recently 
told it theyd been  unable to get further details from their plumber, there was a requirement  
on them  to provide information it required.
Mr and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator noted  there  was a disparity 
between the trace and access findings,  and those of the surveyor. But he also noted  that 
the policy contained an exclusion, common to most  buildings  insurance  policies,  for 
damage which occurs gradually.  He felt Fairmead had shown that gradual  damage had 
occurred so its decline of the claim was fair. However, he felt Fairmead  should have told 
Mr and Mrs B to get a detailed report at the outset  of the trace  and access work. He didnt 
think doing so would  likely have changed the outcome of the claim, but he did note 
Mr and Mrs B had gone to a lot of trouble later to try and obtain  one, to no avail. He said 
Ref: DRN90409042Fairmead should pay £100 compensation  to Mr and Mrs B.
Fairmead said that it had only known a detailed report  on the leaks  and damage was 
needed when  it visited and saw the extent of the water damage.  But it agreed  to pay the 
compensation suggested anyway.
Mr and Mrs B were  dissatisfied, they said theyd done everything  Fairmead  had asked of 
them. Whilst they had sent it information as soon as they could,  it had taken four months  to 
decline the claim. They noted their home  had been unsafe during this time and theyd since  
had to carry out some work to improve their situation.
The complaint was passed  to me for consideration. I issued a provisional decision  on 
9 April 2019 as I felt Fairmead had failed Mr and Mrs B and that, as a result,  it should be 
considering their claim. I also said it should  reimburse their trace and access costs  if it 
hadnt done so already, plus interest and pay £500 compensation. My full provisional 
findings were:
When a policyholder  makes a claim, the onus is on them to show, at least on the face of it, 
they have suffered a loss covered by the policy. But this doesnt mean they have to show  
that conclusively, that this is most definitely  the case, only that its most likely.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy offers cover  for tracing  and accessing water leaks,  but also for 
damage caused by water  leaking from pipes.
Mr and Mrs B reported a leak. They have an invoice from a limited company that says it 
carried out trace and access work  and found  leaking compression joints.  The invoice notes 
the company took down the damaged  kitchen  ceiling.  It also says joists  are suffering water  
damage. Photos have been  provided that also show water damage. Fairmeads surveyor  
also found there was water damage. Mr and Mrs B have shown, on the face of it, they have 
claims for trace and access and water damage  which are covered by the policy.
Once a policyholder has shown, on the face of it, that they have a claim covered by the 
policy, it is up to the insurer if it wants to show otherwise, and/or that an exclusion applies  to 
reasonably defeat  its liability  for the claim. If an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion it is up 
to it to show that.
There is no exclusion attached to the trace and access  cover.  There  are a couple of 
exclusions against the water leak section  but none relevant here. The policy also includes 
a number of general  exclusions. The relevant  one here is for damage which  is caused  or 
has occurred gradually.
This exclusion is common to most  home insurance policies. But this service has a long 
established approach to complaints where  an insurer seeks to rely on such  an exclusion to 
defeat its liability for a claim. In a nutshell  were of the view that if the policyholder  didnt 
know and had no reasonable cause  to think there  was an issue,  declining  the claim on the 
basis of the exclusion  is unfair and unreasonable.
Here Ive considered  the photos  of the bathroom   it doesnt seem  to me to be in a 
generally bad state.  And Im not satisfied that theres  anything  there that might  reasonably  
have alerted Mr and Mrs B to the idea that water damage was occurring. There  have clearly  
been issues within the vanity unit under the sink  but nothing  that seems like it might have 
affected the floor below.  The sealant/grouting  around the bath is cracked in places  but not 
Ref: DRN90409043in any area Id expect  to be subjected to much water.  The sealant around the shower tray 
seems in good condition  its white, not mouldy  and doesnt appear to be cracked or 
missing in places. There  was clearly an issue with the bidet, but this seems to have been 
temporarily addressed  at least by placing paper under the pipe to soak  up water.
Looking at the photos from the kitchen, it is clear  that the joists  under the bathroom  are 
suffering from prolonged exposure  to water. But it isnt clear to me that this could or should 
have been known about when the ceiling was in place. Fairmeads adjuster says he thinks  it 
would have been obvious but doesnt  explain how or why. He also says he thinks there  
would have been signs of water damage  on the ceiling   but he hasnt given any greater  
reasoning than that. And Ive seen  many water damage cases  where  water  remains for a 
long time within  the ceiling  void  being  absorbed by material like the joists, and where 
ceiling finishes also mask any effect of water that has come into contact  with the reverse  of 
the ceiling.
So Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs B either  knew or ought reasonably  to have known 
that water  leaks were occurring and causing damage under the floor of their bathroom.
Im also mindful that Fairmead, as it accepts   incorrectly,  declined the claim at the outset. 
It didnt choose  to go and assess the damage  present  at the property.  Nor did it tell 
Mr and Mrs B it would need to see photos  of the ceiling  before it was taken down.
Having reviewed the circumstances and the evidence provided  by both parties, Im not 
satisfied that Fairmead has shown  its fair for it to rely on the gradually operating cause 
exclusion to defeat  its liability for Mr and Mrs Bs claim. And whilst I note that Fairmead has 
also said that Mr and Mrs B need  to provide  it information it has requested,  I think they have 
tried to provide  this  they cant  reasonably be expected to do anything  more. I also think  
the relevance of what Fairmead was asking for falls away in light of the findings Ive made  
here. Overall I think Fairmead hasnt acted fairly and I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint.
I dont know if Fairmead  settled the trace  and access  claim. If it didnt, I think  it should. Ive 
seen no good  reason  for Fairmead  to decline liability for it. It will have  to reimburse
Mr and Mrs Bs costs,  plus interest* from the date the invoice was paid until settlement is 
made.
Regarding the water  damage claim, Im aware  that some repairs have been completed   but 
Im not sure what, what  they cost or what is outstanding. Fairmead will have  to accept the 
claim and consider settlement for it in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
But, where Mr and Mrs B have had to pay to complete repairs, Fairmead wont  be able to 
settle with them at any cost it might  have been  able to have that work done  for, it will have to 
base its settlement on the costs Mr and Mrs B incurred. Assuming such costs  are submitted 
to Fairmead for consideration within  28 days of any final decision I make, it will also have to 
pay interest* on any settlement made against  those bills, from the date the bills were paid 
until settlement is made.
Fairmeads unfair decline meant the family were left living in uncomfortable conditions  for a 
prolonged period. And also that they had to make arrangements themselves for some work 
to be done. I think  Fairmead  should  pay £500  compensation.
Fairmead hasnt responded to my provisional decision, although it has had nearly two 
months in which  to do so. 
Ref: DRN90409044Mr and Mrs B, via their daughter, said they were  happy with the decision. They  identified  
payments they made which hadnt  been  reimbursed by Fairmead. They  provided some  
further detail about the claim and what happened  when Fairmeads surveyor  visited  the 
property. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr and Mrs B for the further detail  provided but I find that it doesnt materially 
change or affect  the findings  I issued  provisionally.  
Ill arrange for our investigator to pass the cost details to Fairmead for it to consider  when  
making settlement  to Mr and Mrs B.
As Mr and Mrs B have accepted my provisional findings, and Fairmead hasnt objected to 
them, I see no need to change or move  away from them. They now form part of the findings 
of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs trace and access costs (if these havent been settled 
already), plus interest*  from the date the invoice was paid until settlement is made.
Consider the water damage claim in line with my comments above, including  those 
regarding interest*.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Fairmead  
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr 
and Mrs B, it should tell them how much its taken  off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9040904