K822xComplaint 
Miss F is unhappy with the length of time it took Santander UK Plc to take action after she 
notified them  a credit card in her name  had been  taken out fraudulently by her ex-partner.
Background 
Miss F was in an abusive relationship between  2012  and 2013.  During  this time her ex-
partner took out multiple credit accounts  in her name, accumulating significant debt. One of 
these was a Santander credit  card.  This part of the complaint is not in dispute.
Miss F wrote to Santander in 2013  informing them of her situation. However, she didnt hear 
from them and continued to be pursued  for the debt. Because of the lack of response,  she 
was getting from the various businesses involved, including  Santander, Miss F instructed the 
help of solicitors in 2017. At this point  the solicitors  wrote to Santander, but they too received 
no response.
In August  2017  Santander sold the debt.
In August  2018  Miss F approached this service  for help. We wrote  to Santander detailing 
Miss Fs complaint. It was at this point  Santander  took action. It brought back  the debt, wrote
it off and removed  the adverse information from Miss Fs credit file.
Santander has acknowledged it received Miss Fs letter in 2013  and the solicitors letter in
2017 but took no action  at either point. It offered £250 in light of the lack of communication
and in recognition that had it acted, the matter wouldve been resolved a lot sooner for
Miss F.
Our investigator endorsed Santanders offer. Miss F initially  said she would  accept, but on
reflection has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She feels this matter has 
been ongoing for far too long and has impacted her emotionally and financially. Shes 
explained that due to the adverse information on her credit file, she hasnt been able to re-
mortgage. She asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman so her complaint was passed  to 
me to decide
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 
March 2020.I  provide  a copy of my findings from that decision below: 
Santander has acknowledged  it received Miss Fs correspondence in 2013, as well as the
letter from her solicitor  in 2017. Its therefore clear it made an error in not taking any action
and it has accepted this.
Santander hasnt  disputed that the account was taken out fraudulently  by Miss Fs ex-
partner.
It acted quickly upon receiving notification of the complaint from this service.  Im
therefore satisfied  that had Santander  properly reviewed the correspondence it received in
2013 and 2017, it wouldve taken the same action.
Ive gone onto consider what level of compensation Miss F should receive from Santander.
Ref: DRN93775652Miss F has been through  an extremely difficult time. She has for many years  been trying to
sort out the financial  issues that arose out of her past relationship.  It mustve  been extremely  
frustrating to keep  being ignored  when she has been trying to get her life back on track. Both
her letter in 2013, and the solicitors letter in 2017,  made her situation very clear. This
shouldve been  an indication to Santander of the importance of helping  and supporting  Miss 
F, who was clearly very vulnerable at the time. Instead, these were  not acted upon and she
was continuously  pursued for the debt.
It is for these reasons that I dont  believe  £250 is sufficient. However, I have  taken into
account the surrounding situation as well. Miss F is understandably angry  with how shes
been treated.  It is not just Santander that she says has been  ignoring her and offering no
support. It wouldnt therefore  be fair for me to apportion  all the blame for how Miss F is
feeling on Santander alone. It is in fact the cumulative  effect of everything  shes  been
through over the last seven/eight  years.
Miss F has said she hasnt been  able to re-mortgage due to the adverse information on her
credit file. While  I accept  Santander has played  its part in this and shouldve  removed the
adverse information  back in 2013  when it was first notified of the situation, I wouldnt be able
to say that it alone is responsible for Miss F being  unable re-mortgage. I say this because
even if Santander  had removed the information  in 2013, other businesses were  reporting
adverse information  at the time, so unfortunately Miss F wouldve likely been in the same
situation.
Santander isnt claiming it didnt receive  the post. So, it seems  that despite having sight  of
Miss Fs correspondence and the serious  and distressing situation  described, it failed to help
and investigate. This has caused Miss F a great deal of frustration and upset, for a
significantly extended amount of time. For this reason, I think Santander should award
Miss F £600.
Miss F has also raised  the fact she is out of pocket for legal fees. She says that had the
businesses involved responded to her, she wouldnt have had to instruct  solicitors. I can
certainly understand why Miss F feels this way, but I also have to take into consideration that
there are free alternatives to getting  a solicitor  involved, such as bringing  the matter  to this
service or approaching  the Citizens Advice  Bureau for advice. Regardless, it is also the
case again that I wouldnt be able to apportion all the cost to Santander  alone,  as Miss F has
suffered similar  issues  across  numerous businesses. For these reasons Im not minded to
recommend Santander  refund Miss Fs legal fees.
So subject to any further representations from Miss F or Santander I was minded to uphold 
the complaint  and ask Santander to pay Miss F £600 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Miss F responded to my provisional decision explaining that the Citizens  Advice Bureau had 
said they were unable to help when  she approached  them  as her circumstances were 
deemed a criminal matter. She said she also approached  her local MP for help but didnt 
receive a response. She therefore only went to a solicitor  as a last result.  She only became  
aware she could  approach this service when she saw something on the news about us 
looking into situations where people have suffered financial fraud due to domestic violence. 
Prior to this she was aware of our service but didnt  think she could complain to us about 
what had happened  to her. In light of this Miss F asked whether that still meant  £600  is the 
correct judgement. 
Ref: DRN93775653Santander responded agreeing to my provisional decision for it to pay £600 in compensation  
to Miss F. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
I understand why Miss F feels like Santander  should  cover the cost of her legal fees.  From 
her further  submission Im very sorry to hear that she sought help from various bodies but to 
no avail. I appreciate how frustrating this mustve  been. There  is no doubt Santander 
shouldve engaged with Miss F at a far earlier stage and the fact it didnt, clearly impacted 
her decision  to approach  a solicitor. However, this fact alone  isnt enough for me to ask 
Santander to cover the cost of Miss Fs solicitors fees. 
This service was available  for Miss F to use  I appreciate she didnt think we would be able 
to help with her circumstances. However,  she couldve approached us for information at any 
point. Had she done so I think she wouldve been able to avoid incurring the solicitors fees. 
So it remains that I dont  think its fair to ask Santander to cover  these.  
Miss F has been through  an extremely distressing experience. Santander  made errors in not 
responding and engaging with Miss F on two clear occasions  in 2013 and 2017. These 
errors impacted Miss Fs ability to move  on from what happened to her. Im very conscious  
of what Miss F has been through  and Ive weighed this up carefully with the fact Santander 
wasnt the only business causing  Miss F problems. So when taking everything into account, I 
believe £600  compensation  is a fair amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Fs complaint and asking Santander UK 
Plc to pay £600 for the trouble and upset it caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9377565