K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (trading as Direct Line) mis-sold her an 
insurance policy. She says Direct Line didnt explain properly how to get help under the 
home emergency part of her home  insurance. Mrs S wants Direct  Line to pay a £100 
plumbers bill.
background
Mrs S bought her home insurance  over the phone  in 2017. She bought an all inclusive policy  
that, as well as building and contents insurance,  also covered her for home  emergencies.
Some months later Mrs S returned home  late at night to find the house flooded and no 
power. She rang a plumber who repaired the leak. Mrs S then made a claim to Direct Line 
for both the cost of the plumber and to put right the damage the leak had caused. Although  
Direct Line agreed  to meet  the majority of Mrs Ss claim,  it said it wouldnt pay for the 
emergency plumbers  bill.
Mrs S complained about this. Direct Line said the terms  and conditions  in the policy  say it 
wont pay for unauthorised work, even in an emergency, and that Mrs S should have called 
before engaging her own plumber. 
Unhappy with this response Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld as she thought Direct Line had been clear enough in the 
sales phone  call about how Mrs S should contact it in the event of an emergency. 
Mrs S says she wasnt told she should  call a different number specifically for home 
emergencies and the actions she took were in everybodys interests and most likely 
prevented further  damage  so Direct Line should  pay the £100.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the phone call between  Mrs S and Direct Line from when she bought her 
insurance. Theres a discussion about  home emergency cover  and the member  of staff tells 
Mrs S she just needs to give Direct Line a call in an emergency. I think  this information  is 
clear.
I accept that the policy itself gives  a different number for home emergencies  but I dont 
think that affects my decision. Thats for two reasons. 
First, I wouldnt  expect Direct Line to go through every point in the policy during a sales  call, 
because (as our investigator also explained)  it would  be an overwhelming amount of 
information to take in over the phone. And Direct  Line did send the full policy  documents to 
Mrs S after the call, and suggested she read them  so the information  about different 
numbers was available.  
Ref: DRN90699432Second, Mrs S didnt  call or try to call Direct Line before she contacted a plumber. If she had 
called Direct  Line, on any of its contact  numbers, Id expect Direct  Line to ask her to call the 
number for emergencies. It never had a chance  to do that. 
Direct Line is entitled to apply the terms and conditions  in the policy  to any claim Mrs S 
makes. The policy does say it wont pay for unauthorised work  even in an emergency  so 
I think its acted reasonably.
Mrs S has recently told us about her dissatisfaction with the way a call to the provider of the 
emergency cover was handled. Im afraid  I cant comment on what  happened  in this call, as 
it was with a different business, and this decision  is only about  what  Direct Line did. Mrs S is 
free to complain to the other business, if she wants to, and if shes  unhappy  with the 
response she may be able to bring  a fresh complaint to us. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069943