K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained through their representative about a life cover  plan they took 
out with Canada Life Limited. They  have  said that when they stopped paying into the policy 
they were not told they couldve cashed  it in rather  than leaving it to become fully paid up. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a flexi cover  plan which provided life protection  on a whole of life 
basis in 1992.  At the start the policy provided  a sum assured  of £50,000.  This increased to 
£76,608 over a few months and remained at that level until the policy was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs C stopped  paying premiums into the policy in 2001 because of changes in their 
circumstances. At this point in time they were informed by letter that their sum assured 
would remain at £76,608 and that the units remaining  in the plan would continue  to increase 
or reduce in value in line with performance of the plan fund but charges would continue and 
this would reduce  the number of units each month.  It was also noted  that should  the charges 
totally erode  the value  of the plan it would terminate.
Subsequently in 2004 they received  a letter stating that the charges of the plan had totally 
eroded its value.
The representative has said that when Mr and Mrs C discussed this plan in 2001 with their 
adviser they were  not told the plan had a cash in value. She has said they were  not given 
the option of taking the cash.  She also said they didnt understand the concept of making a 
policy fully paid up. Nor did they know the policy was still providing them cover for the 
years between 2001 and 2004.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. As he couldnt  confirm  what  had been  discussed with the adviser he looked at the 
documentation provided to see if and what options were made clear to Mr and Mrs C. He felt 
this made  it clear that the policy could be surrendered  or cashed in or if the premiums were  
stopped the policy would  remain  in force  until the value eroded.  Because  of this, he was of 
the view that Mr and Mrs C should have been aware of what  options were available  to them 
when they decided to stop paying  into the policy.
The representative on behalf of Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with outcome and remained of the 
view that information  about cashing  in the policy was kept from them.
So, as no agreement could be made,  the complaint  has been  passed to me to review for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
I know the representative has said the adviser  didnt mention the cash  in value when 
Mr and Mrs C spoke about  cancelling  the direct debit but I wasnt  as this discussion so 
I cant comment on what may or may not have  been  discussed.
Ref: DRN90375252All I can do is look at the information provided  and see whether I think it covered all it 
needed to. And I think it did.
As mentioned above, when Mr and Mrs C stopped paying into the policy Canada Life sent 
them a letter which explained the policy had been paid up. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs C may 
not have known what this meant at that point in time but Canada  Life wasnt to know  that. All 
Canada Life had to do was to inform Mr and Mrs C of the status of the policy  which is what it 
did. If they didnt  understand then it was for them to ask the relevant questions.
The letter does also state the plan would continue  to provide benefits. Therefore I think  
Mr and Mrs C would  have known this from this letter that the policy  was still providing  life 
cover, until they got the letter in 2004.
This letter also explains that the charges could totally erode the value of the plan at which  
point the policy would  terminate. So again I think  it was made  clear  what  would happen to 
the plan when Mr and Mrs C stopped  paying  the premiums.
I appreciate the representative says Mr and Mrs C didnt  understand  the letter but I think it 
was written in a clear  and understandable  manner and if Mr and Mrs C were  confused  it was 
their responsibility to have  asked  Canada Life.
With regards to the cash in value, it is correct  that the letter  of April 2001 didnt mention this. 
However I do think its reasonable  for Mr and Mrs C to have known the nature of the policy 
they had taken and how it worked.  This was all in the policy documents that they were given 
at the time of the sale. I know  the representative has said they didnt understand these  
documents but again it was their responsibility  to clarify any information  they didnt 
understand at the time with Canada Life.
If they chose not to do this then Canada Life cant be held responsible.
Overall therefore, I think Mr and Mrs C should  have known about  the type of policy they were 
taking and also what could happen  if they cancelled it or stopped  paying  the premiums.  
While I appreciate they may not have remembered the details of the policy, they were  still in 
possession of the policy documentation  where this was all set out and so its not 
unreasonable for him to have looked  at this when they were making changes to an important 
life protection  policy they held.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 August 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9037525