K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited havent paid the full 
cost to repair his car under his mechanical  breakdown insurance policy. 
background
Mr Ks car broke down and was taken  to a garage  for repair.  The garage carried out the 
repairs and produced an invoice showing the cost of the repairs to be £1,149.99. 
Red Sands  agreed  the breakdown was covered and paid £822.48 for the repair. Mr K didnt 
think this was fair. He said Red Sands should cover the full cost of the repair and brought  his 
complaint here.
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ks complaint and explained his policy didnt provide cover for 
all the parts and work done when  Mr Ks car was repaired. She found the amount of time   
Mr Ks policy  paid for labour was in line with the manufacturers and Glasses guide standard 
repair times. She also explained  the parts not paid for werent covered by his policy.  
Because Red Sands had paid for the parts  covered and the labour times in line with the 
policy she didnt uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K disagreed, he explained  because the turbo had been  repaired it was good industry 
practice to check the oil pump, so Red Sands should cover  this. He also said as the pipe that 
had been replaced related to the turbo  it should  also be covered. 
As Mr K disagreed the complaint has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy  covers  him for the mechanical and electrical breakdown  of parts,  including the 
labour to fit them. The policy also lists which parts arent covered under  the policy.  The part 
which failed on Mr Ks car was the turbo. The report from the specialist  who repaired it said 
the shaft turbine wheel was broken. Red Sands agreed the turbo was covered and paid for it 
to be repaired and fitted. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy say the amount  of time allowed for labour will be in 
line with the manufacturers/Glasss Guide standard repair times. The cost of diagnosis or 
testing is not included. The terms and conditions  also list pipes as not being covered.  
A manufacturing garage said the repair time to remove and refit a turbo on Mr Ks car is 2.6 
hours. This is the same  as the repair time in the Glasss guide  and is what  Red Sands  have  
paid towards the labour costs. Mr Ks garage has done more than just repair the broken  
turbo; theyve also checked  the oil pump  by removing it along with the engine sump. The 
garage has also then tested the car to ensure its working correctly after the repairs. 
Ref: DRN98642372Ive looked at whether its fair and reasonable for Red Sands to cover  these  additional costs.  
As pipes  are specifically  excluded from Mr Ks policy its not fair to ask Red Sands to cover 
the cost for the pipe that was replaced. The terms and conditions also say the cost of 
diagnosis and testing  isnt covered. Red Sands have paid for the initial  diagnosis  but not 
testing, theyve acted  fairly by covering  the diagnosis because  theyve paid more than the 
policy covers, so Im not going  to ask them to cover  the testing. 
Mr K said the true cost of repair would include the additional work  his garage has done. 
Because there werent  any concerns with the oil pump, and this policy  doesnt cover  
diagnosis, its not fair and reasonable to ask Red Sands to cover the cost to check the oil 
pump and removal  of the sump. 
From reviewing the terms and conditions  of Mr Ks policy  Im satisfied Red Sands have 
applied them fairly and reasonably when settling his claim. So Im not going to ask them to 
do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9864237