K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Snap Finance Limited  wont refund to her the money that she paid for 
two sofas. 
background
Miss G used  a fixed sum loan agreement with Snap Finance that she signed in 
October 2018 to pay £998 to a supplier  for two sofas (including delivery). She says that the 
leather started  peeling  on the sofas after six weeks so she complained to the supplier and 
then claimed a refund from Snap Finance under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. She wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. Miss G no 
longer had the sofas so she had to rely on the photos of the damage   and she couldnt  say 
from the photos that there was a fault with the sofa or that they werent of satisfactory quality 
when they were sold to Miss G. But she said that Snap Finances inaction and 
misconception of its responsibility had led to Miss Gs current position   so she 
recommended that it should pay her £75 compensation.
Miss G has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says that she 
asked for someone  to look at the sofas but Snap  Finance said that it didnt have to as it only 
supplied the finance. She says that after six weeks the leather peeled  away from the sofas  
and that shed looked after them well. She says that she had to pay for the sofas to be taken 
away and to buy replacements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Miss Gs complaint about  
Snap Finance, I must  be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier of the sofas and that Snap Finances response to her claim under  section  75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.  Im not determining the outcome of Miss Gs claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
The sofas were  delivered to Miss G and she says that about six weeks later the leather 
started peeling on them.  She complained to the supplier and then to Snap Finance and 
provided photos of the damage. The supplier said that there  was no sign of a manufacturing  
fault or that the sofas were of bad quality. Snap Finance said that it had only provided  
finance to Miss G for her to buy the sofas  from the supplier and told her that the issue was 
between her and the supplier. Miss G says that she then paid someone to take the sofas  
away and bought replacements.
It seems  clear  to me that Snap Finance has given incorrect information to Miss G about  its 
responsibilities under section 75. I consider that that will have caused her distress and 
inconvenience. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay her £75 to compensate  
her for that distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN95058512I have reviewed the photos  of the damage to the sofas that Miss G has provided. Im not 
persuaded that those photos show that the leather was peeling  or that the sofas werent fit 
for purpose  or of satisfactory  quality when they were bought by Miss G. The sofas are no 
longer available for inspection and Miss G isnt able to provide  any other evidence to show 
that the leather on them is peeling. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that theres been  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.  So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Snap Finance to 
refund to Miss G the money  that she paid for the sofas, to end her loan agreement or to take 
any other action in response  to her complaint (other than the £75 payment  referred  to 
above).
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part and I order  
Snap Finance Limited  to pay her £75 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  
that she was caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9505851