K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under a central  heating  insurance policy 
with Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Aviva uses  agents to handle claims and complaints  on its behalf.  Any reference to Aviva in 
this decision should  be read as including  anything said and done by those agents on its 
behalf. 
background
On 20 December 2018, Mr C called Aviva to report  that his boiler was making noises. Aviva 
sent an engineer  out the same day but found no faults with the boiler.  The engineer  
apparently asked Mr C to monitor the situation and take a recording if the noises happened 
again. 
On 4 January  2019, Mr C called Aviva again to say the boiler  was switching itself off and a 
fault code was now showing. I understand Mr C was able to reset the boiler but the radiators 
were still not heating up. Aviva sent another  engineer out the next day, having  apparently  
confirmed in the meantime that Mr C could  use an immersion  heater for hot water.  The 
engineer stripped down the boiler, cleaned it and got it working again. However, Mr C called 
Aviva again  on 15 January 2019 to say the same problem was happening again.  Mr C asked 
for an appointment the same  day and told Aviva his wife has medical conditions affected  by 
the cold. Aviva said an engineer would call him that day which  didnt happen. The engineer 
went out the next day and fitted a new pump.  
However, on 18 January  2019, Mr C reported that the boiler had failed yet again.  An 
engineer went  out on 19 January 2019 and said the boiler was overheating and the boiler 
was marked as being at risk. Aviva returned  on 21 January  and said the system was full of 
debris. Its engineer apparently took a water sample, which was sent for analysis. I 
understand some temporary heaters were delivered  to Mr C a couple of days  later. 
Mr C was told on 29 January 2019 that the results  of the water analysis showed there was 
sludge in the central  heating system and a power  flush was required. Aviva considers this to 
be normal maintenance work so the cost of this would not be covered under the policy,  and 
the cover  under the policy would be suspended until this was done.  
I understand Mr C had the power flush carried out. There is a note on Avivas file that Mr C 
told it the boiler and central heating were now working but still not to full capacity. 
Mr C is not happy  with the handling  of the claim.  He says he and his family  (including three  
young children  and elderly  parents) were left without  heating  or hot water for some time,  in 
freezing cold weather  and were ill as a result. They  also suffered considerable disruption  
with numerous  attendances and having to chase  Aviva  up for updates. Mr C considers  that 
some compensation is warranted. 
Aviva accepted that it could have resolved the problem with the boiler sooner and that Mr C 
was not kept informed,  including regarding the appointments on 15 January 2019.  It offered 
£220 compensation for this.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended that the compensation be 
increased to £500,  as Mr C and his family  were  without  heating and hot water for longer than 
Ref: DRN94261082required, in particular due to the time taken to get the water  analysis done and tell him the 
results of that.  
Mr C accepted the investigators assessment  but Aviva does not. Aviva says that Mr Cs 
boiler was working  for most of the time until the period between it taking the water sample on  
and getting those results  back. It therefore  considers the compensation recommended  to be 
excessive. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes  cover  for issues caused  by sludge or scale  in the heating  system and 
also does not cover any work required to remove sludge and scale to prevent future 
damage. There is no independent evidence that this diagnosis was not correct  and it does 
appear that the power flush has resolved the issues  with the boiler, albeit  Mr C says its still 
not operating  to full capacity. However,  it took from 20 December 2018 to 29 January 2019 
for Aviva to reach the conclusion that the problems were caused  by sludge in the system.
It may be that a new pump would have been needed in any event but, even taking that into 
account, there has been no proper explanation  as to why it took over five weeks to resolve  
what essentially turned  out to be a straightforward issue  with the boiler. 
Aviva says that £220 compensation  is adequate  to reflect the trouble  this caused but I do not 
agree. I agree  with the investigator that some additional compensation is warranted.  Even  
though the boiler was working intermittently during this time, it was not working at all for 
around 12 days, mainly  while waiting for the results of the water sample test. This meant Mr 
C and his large family, including  young children  and elderly parent, were  without heating and 
hot water  in extremely cold temperatures. This would have caused a great  deal of 
inconvenience for them all. In addition,  there  were  at least  five attendances,  which  were not 
all necessary and the distress at the problem  recurring and having to keep calling Aviva  out 
again. Having  taken everything  into account, I consider that the sum of £550 (a little more 
than the investigator  recommended)  is appropriate to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by Avivas handling of this matter. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to pay Mr C the sum of 
£550 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9426108