K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs C bought the policy during a phone call in 2002, some  years  after taking a store  card. 
The card itself was most likely taken in person  in a shop  the credit agreement  was signed 
by Mrs C and signed on behalf of the lender on the same day.
AXA has told us Mrs C paid less than £12 in total in PPI premiums  over the policys  life.
At the time of the sales call, Mrs C was employed  as a system administrator and had been 
there two years.  She has told us she was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full 
sick pay. I think it likely she was also entitled to statutory pay for redundancy. As well as her 
work benefits, Mrs C has told us she had an insurance policy  she couldve used to pay her 
card if she couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  From what shes  told 
us, I think it likely Mrs C would still suffer a fall in income, as compared  to when she was 
working, if she suffered  redundancy  or, once her full sick pay came to an end, disability.
The PPI policy provided cover for disability and unemployment, and life cover, subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. It likely  cost £1 per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  It 
offered to pay 15% of Mrs Cs card balance if she couldnt work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the balance  on death. The 
premium had to still be paid during a successful claim  and attracted interest. The policy  also 
likely provided purchase  protection and price protection - Mrs C hasnt complained about this 
element of the insurance policy, so I will not consider it further in this decision.  
Mrs C has told us of an infection, an operation  and a broken bone she had as a child. Shes  
also told us of taking  pain killers for a health  issue two years  before the sale, but she hasnt 
told us of having any ongoing problems  with this or of having any other  advice or treatment  
for it or of ever having any time off work as a result  of it.
Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Cs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs C wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN92936742The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs C about  the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs C and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mrs C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN92936743The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So I am satisfied its right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Cs case. I have also taken 
account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty 
of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causation  and remoteness.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN92936744Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs C sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs C suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs C and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs C know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs C has said she had no interest in PPI 
and it was just included as part of the package with her card. But Mrs Cs card started some 
years before the PPI was sold - so it wasnt included as part of the package when she took 
her card. Also, as her card had been  running for some time without  PPI, I think  its likely that, 
at the time of the sales call, Mrs C wouldve known she didnt have to have  PPI to have the 
card running  and wouldve been aware  that the PPI was something separate from the card. 
With all this in mind, Mrs Cs recollections dont persuade me that AXA didnt make it clear  to 
her the PPI was optional  during the sales call. AXA hasnt been  able to provide a recording 
of the sales call. This isnt surprising given the time that passed between  the sale and 
Mrs Cs complaint. AXA hasnt any scripts  from the time of this sale either. But scripts for 
later sales  suggest customers were offered the PPI and asked whether they wanted it before 
it was added.
With all this in mind, I think  it likely  Mrs C knew the PPI was optional.  Also,  looking at what  
Mrs C has said,  there  isnt anything to suggest she was pressured into the PPI. 
So, taking everything  into account, having  thought  carefully about all Mrs C has said about 
how the PPI was added to her card, I think its more likely Mrs C knew  the policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. But given the time thats passed since  
the sale, it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs C doesnt  recall all the details of the sales  call now.
Ref: DRN92936745did AXA provide advice?
AXA and Mrs C have said no advice was given during this sale.  I think it likely advice wasnt  
given. This means  AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs C. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Ive seen policy terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - applied  
to policies like Mrs Cs. But AXA hasnt been  able to provide any call script to show what  
information Mrs C mightve  been given during the call before she agreed  to the policy. So, 
based on what I have,  Im not persuaded AXA gave Mrs C the information  she fairly and 
reasonably needed to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy.  
While I dont know exactly what AXA told Mrs C about  the PPI during the phone  call, I think  it 
unlikely she wouldve agreed  to take the PPI without having at least  a broad understanding 
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think 
its unlikely Mrs C would have thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Cs attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs C, including the need to maintain premiums  during 
a claim or that payments  would attract  interest.  In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing her attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Cs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Cs representative  considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Ref: DRN92936746Im not persuaded by Mrs Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs C? To what extent did Mrs C suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs C. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs C 
would have still taken  the policy, had AXA done  things  properly.  
Mrs C says she would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs C had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs C chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs C thought she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs C ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So, while Mrs C didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs C knew  or should have known 
about, or for which  she had been advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs C wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs C be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job, and be stopped  from doing any paid work her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do.
Ref: DRN92936747I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs C pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs C from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. The policy wouldnt have  covered  time off work related to the 
health issue shed  taken pain killers for two years before  the sale. But Ive nothing that 
persuades me this issue caused her to take time off work or that it or anything  related had 
caused her problems since. What I have  overall doesnt persuade me Mrs C wouldve 
thought herself  at much risk of missing work in future due to this past issue  or those shed 
had treated in childhood.  So, I dont think she wouldve placed much weight on these in her 
decision or that better information about the policys medical terms wouldve put her off the 
cover. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve  been  caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I think Mrs C still had good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs C 
from taking the policy,  Mrs C, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs C had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own or any similar job, but also unable  to do any paid work  her education, experience  or 
training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have  played into her thinking about what 
to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although, given Mrs Cs 
circumstances, on balance I think she would  still have  been interested  in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs C would still have  taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently  close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding Mrs Cs work benefits  and other means. And, in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not Mrs C would have  taken  the policy in any event.  
Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs C would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN92936748I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  That is because,  while I accept its possible Mrs C wouldnt have taken 
it, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely than not she wouldve still taken the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude AXA should pay Mrs C compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in had everything happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs C thinks AXA misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs C and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293674