K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
St Andrews  Insurance plc (St Andrews) says its responsible for the sale and for this 
complaint.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W was sold the policy  in 2004, around  two months after applying for a loan. The loan 
was repayable over 30 monthly repayments, with the first repayment being due three months 
after the loan started   so there  was a three-month deferral period for the repayments,  and 
the PPI was sold to Mrs W during this period. Mrs W has said she bought the PPI by phone. 
St Andrews  says it sold the PPI to Mrs W by post.
Once they started, the monthly loan repayments were £110.37. The PPI cost an additional 
£9.52, making the total monthly payment £109.89. The PPI was a regular premium contract, 
the premiums didnt attract interest and, from what St Andrews has told us, the policy  could 
be cancelled  by Mrs W without penalty  by giving written notice.
St Andrews  says the policy  provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, and 
life and critical illness cover, subject  to its exclusions and limitations. From what St Andrews 
has told us, the policy  offered  to pay the monthly loan payment for up to the end of the loans 
term for disability and up to 12 months for unemployment.
When she brought us her complaint, Mrs W told us she was employed at the time of the sale 
as a cashier, had been there  two years and was entitled  to either no pay for sickness and 
redundancy or no more than statutory pay. She said she had savings of £2000  she couldve 
used to pay her loan if she couldnt work. From what she told us, she was in good health at 
the sale and hadnt had health issues. The loan application records  sent by St Andrews say 
Mrs W was self-employed as a hairdresser  and had been for many years.
St Andrews  has sent us evidence to show that the loan account  closed in 2006. Mrs Ws 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs Ws 
representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs Ws representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  St Andrews should have told Mrs W 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN90969912The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews (and ended in 2006 in 
any case).  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for 
private customers  the GISC Code. This sale was made during a period of industry self-
regulation by the General  Insurance Standards  Council (GISC). It published  the GISC code, 
which set out minimum standards of good  practice  for its members to follow when selling 
insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN90969913The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI code  was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
St Andrews  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs W has said she had no interest in 
PPI and says it was just included  as part of the package with her loan  she also says it was 
sold by phone. St Andrews says the PPI was sold by post.
Ref: DRN90969914St Andrews  has sent a Personal Loan Repayments  Cover  Acceptance  Form  a form used  
as part of the process for applying for and agreeing to the PPI. Looking  at the form and from 
what I know of such forms, I think it likely it was a postal application sent to Mrs W by post  
and sent some time after her loan had started.  For example, Mrs W signed the form and her 
signature is dated around two months after her loan had started  also the form says it is to 
be returned to the insurer  and gives the insurers postal address.
The form shows that Mrs W signed  to apply for the PPI, separately from signing for the loan 
 and some  months  after her loan had started. It also shows that Mrs W filled out a separate 
direct debit in order to pay for the PPI. With all this in mind, I think  its likely Mrs W knew  the 
PPI was something separate from the loan, with a separate  cost  and, on balance,  I think it 
likely Mrs W knew she didnt have  to take the PPI to get the loan, bearing in mind also that 
the loan had already started  when  she signed for the PPI. Mrs W hasnt said anything that 
makes me think she was pressured into the cover. After it received her form, the insurer also 
sent her a letter confirming the PPI, which referred to her as having  chosen  the cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs W knew  the PPI was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  give advice during  this sale.  Mrs W hasnt said advice was given. 
With all this in mind, and also given that I think  this was a postal sale,  Im persuaded that 
St Andrews  didnt give advice. This means  it didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for 
Mrs W. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, that it would protect  her payments if she were unable to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached this conclusion because  I think 
its unlikely Mrs W wouldve  taken the PPI without any sense  of what  it was for. Im also 
satisfied Mrs W was told what the PPI premium would be and what  the monthly  benefit was 
 as these were set out on the form she signed to apply for and agree to the cover.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs W agreed to take the policy. So I 
dont think St Andrews gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN90969915PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs W has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on St Andrews.
what effect did the shortcomings of St Andrews have on Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mrs W suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs W. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  the policy, had St Andrews done things properly. 
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs W had to weigh  up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs W chose  to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs W thought  she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mrs W was given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  shed bought and 
what she actually bought, from what St Andrews has sent and said of the policy  terms, were  
the following:
The policy excluded disability claims relating to pre-existing conditions (health issues  
Mrs W knew or shouldve known  about  at the policy start, or about  which  shed seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  in the 12 months  before the start), although a claim could  be 
Ref: DRN90969916considered if, in the 24 months before the issue giving rise to the claim,  Mrs W had been 
symptom free and not seen or been due to see a doctor about or had treatment for the 
issue. If Mrs W were aware of the pre-existing condition at the policy start, directly 
related claims were excluded. 
The policy also excluded disability claims related to chronic conditions, being  a health 
issue that continued indefinitely, or was controlled rather than cured,  or had symptoms  
which recurred and had required treatment or consultation more than once in the past, or 
that required long term treatment  or investigation.
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds.
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if employment 
wasnt permanent.
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs W be unable to do her own 
or any similar job  and unable to do any paid work her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ive seen  nothing that persuades  me she wasnt  
eligible for its benefits, and the policy provided cover  that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mrs W should the insured  risks have become a 
reality. I also havent seen any evidence to persuade me Mrs W wouldve been  caught by 
any of the significant exclusions. For example, Im not persuaded she had any pre-existing 
health issues or was in fixed term, seasonal or temporary employment, and Ive not seen 
evidence the policy terms wouldve  made  it harder for her to claim for unemployment if she 
were self-employed. So, I think Mrs W still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she wouldve expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mrs W 
from taking the policy,  Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she were  stopped  from doing  her 
own or any similar job and stopped from doing  any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  but, given her circumstances, on 
balance I think Mrs W wouldve  still been  interested in taking the PPI.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely she thought 
she was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help her manage  the consequences  were 
she made redundant, or unable  to work  through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not Mrs W wouldve taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding  
the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN90969917Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as result of the sale was the same position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Thats because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the policy, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not that Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI 
had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude St Andrews should pay Mrs W compensation,  as that would  put her in a better 
position than she wouldve  been in had everything  happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mrs W thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  theres a possibility a court  might conclude  some of the 
statements of St Andrews misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information it gave Mrs W, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect 
St Andrews  to have  met in 2004 when providing  information about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
Ref: DRN90969918think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9096991