K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mrs and Mr O payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr O disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mrs and Mr O have said the PPI was added without their knowledge.  However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of 
this. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something  wrong,  
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should  present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt  do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. I do though realise  this presents a 
big difficulty for Mrs and Mr O. 
But Im also conscious  that the sale of the PPI took place about 21 years ago and I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened so long ago. And I can see that, 
on the loan agreement, the PPI is listed as a separate  optional credit insurance monthly 
payment; so this gives some support to Nationwides  claim  it was offered as a choice and 
with Mrs and Mr Os knowledge   although  I accept Mrs and Mr O could have signed  the 
agreement without understanding what this meant,  or without  noticing  it. However,  without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs and Mr Os consent.
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to Mrs and Mr O as being  particularly suited  
to their individual needs. This means  it didnt  have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would have been for Mrs and Mr O to decide whether it was suitable.  But 
even if Nationwide  had made a recommendation, I think  it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in Mrs and Mr Os circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable  to pay 
a secured loan can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mrs O received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer  though  in 
fact Mrs and Mr O say she wasnt entitled to extra employer sick pay, so that means  the PPI 
was of greater  potential use. It would also have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when Mrs and Mr O would need to 
fall back on any savings,  or other means  they may have had for paying  the secured loan and 
other living costs. This all would have  put Mrs and Mr O in a more  secure  position,  if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ref: DRN90813012Mrs and Mr O have said that Mrs O didnt have  significant earnings at the time, and so didnt 
need PPI. But Ive looked at Nationwides computer record made at the time, and this shows 
either Mrs O or Mr O earning  about  a third of the household income.  And as the loan is 
described as being  for the consolidation  of some of the several  thousand pounds worth  of 
debt (which are listed), I think  its likely that the loss of Mrs Os income could have caused 
difficulties for their household budget. 
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mrs and Mr O would have  understood 
how much  it would cost. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr O would have been affected  by any of these.  
So, taking all these factors into account, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9081301