K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains about interest hes paid on his credit card with TSB Bank plc.
background 
Mr N says he applied for a TSB credit card through an online comparison website. He 
understood the card offered an 18 month  interest  free period. In May 2018, four months after 
he took out the card, he noticed interest was being  charged and tried to call TSB to discuss 
it. He wasnt able to get through  on the phone, so he spoke to staff in his local branch. They 
promised to refer the matter on.
TSB acknowledged Mr Ns concerns but didnt respond quickly  due to system problems they 
were experiencing. Mr N chased several times and in July, August and September 2018, 
TSB told him he could  refer his complaint to us, but that theyd continue  to look into things. 
Mr N raised his complaint  with us in September 2018 and moved  his credit card to another  
provider. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. TSB told him that the terms of the credit 
card applied for allowed 0% interest on purchases for three months  and 0% on balance 
transfers made within 90 days of opening for 28 months. As Mr N used his card for 
purchases, he was charged interest  from month  four. Our adjudicator  asked Mr N for any 
evidence he had regarding the offer he thought hed applied for  especially the 18 month 
interest free period  - but Mr N was unable to provide  any.
Having looked  at the evidence available, our adjudicator felt that interest had been correctly 
applied to the account. But he noted TSBs  delays  in responding to Mr Ns complaint and 
recognised that he may have moved  his card sooner had he received a response.  Our 
adjudicator recommended  that TSB should  pay Mr N £50 for the trouble and upset the delay 
in responding  caused  Mr N. But he felt as the interest  had been  correctly applied to the 
account, there was nothing further  TSB should do. 
TSB accepted our adjudicators recommendation, but Mr N didnt. While he accepted  that 
the terms of the card were as TSB had told us, but said the delay in responding to his 
complaint had meant hed paid over £200 in interest that he wouldnt otherwise  have  had to 
pay. As there was no agreement, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute now about the terms of the credit card. What is in dispute - and therefore  
the issue for me to decide - is whether its fair for TSB to charge interest in light of the delays 
in responding  to Mr Ns complaint. 
It seems  clear  that if Mr N had been aware sooner that the interest had been applied  
correctly, hed have  moved his card earlier than he did; he was free to move his card at any 
time. Mr N had become  aware that interest had been charged in May 2018. But he continued 
to use his card in the knowledge that he was being  charged interest,  and didnt move it until 
September 2018. 
Ref: DRN90684872I have to bear in mind  that the interest had been applied in line with the terms Mr N had 
accepted when he took the card out. TSB had made  no mistake in charging interest.  But 
they did take too long to respond to his complaint. TSB told Mr N it would take a long time to 
resolve due to system  problems theyd experienced, and in their letter of 12 July 2018  (and 
subsequently), they said he was free to refer his complaint to us.  
TSB has correctly applied interest and in line with the terms Mr N agreed to, so I think it was 
fair for them  to do so. But I do think they should  make a gesture to him for the delays in 
responding to his concerns. While I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr N, I 
think the offer theyve  made to pay Mr N £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank PLC should  pay Mr N £50 for the delays  in relying to his 
concerns.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9068487