K822xcomplaint
Miss P is unhappy with the way Santander UK plc handled her concerns when a card 
payment was taken  without her authority. 
background 
Miss P signed up for a survey, with an offer of a free gift, for which she would only have  to 
pay postage. She provided her Santander card details to pay for the postage but, she says, 
not for anything else. However, the company involved took a further  £79 from her account.  
Miss P contacted Santander  to say she hadnt authorised the £79 or any further payments. 
Santander indicated  that it appeared she had signed  up for recurring payments. That meant  
it couldnt stop the £79 payment but could take steps to prevent any further  payments  being 
made. 
Miss P was unhappy  about the way her concerns were handled. Specifically, she wasnt put 
through to the banks fraud department.  Calls were disconnected  and not returned. She 
doesnt feel that any action was taken  as a result. 
Santander agreed to pay Miss P £25 in recognition of the distress shed suffered. It seems 
that she managed  to recover  the £79 from the merchant, even though  Santander couldnt,  
and that no further  payments have been taken. 
Miss P didnt think that went  far enough  and has said she thinks a payment of £250  would be 
appropriate. When she referred her complaint to this service, however, our investigator  took 
the view that £25 was appropriate  compensation, but that Santander should apologise to 
Miss P. The bank had nothing to add in response  to that assessment, but Miss P asked that 
an ombudsman review  the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its really for Santander to decide how it organises  itself to deal with issues  such as this. If it 
decides that a matter  such as this isnt appropriate for its fraud department, its not for me to 
say it is. It should have course have a fair process  for dealing with customers  who have 
problems such as Miss Ps, but that doesnt  mean it has to apply a fraud  label to those 
issues. 
I do note however Miss Ps concern that she was asked on several  occasions  about any 
terms attached to the offer  even though shed already answered the banks question. And 
Santander has acknowledged that Miss P didnt  receive a call back  when she should  have 
done. 
I dont however agree with Miss Ps assessment of the appropriate  level of payment in 
recognition of these  matters. I agree  with the investigators view that £25 was sufficient, 
together with an apology.  So that it can be enforced if necessary,  I shall make an award 
requiring Santander to apologise to Miss P for its handling of her concerns, but intend to 
leave it to the bank to decide what form that should take. 
Ref: DRN99443302my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Ps complaint, Santander should apologise in writing  
to her for the way it handled her concerns. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9944330