K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) dealt  with her 
home insurance claim for water damage.
background
On 21 December 2017 Mrs D reported a leak from under the floor in her kitchen. As this was 
just before Christmas,  RSA couldnt  get an emergency plumber out. The stopcock was 
turned off and Mrs D was offered alternative  accommodation which she refused.  She is 
elderly and lives alone and couldnt cope with the stress of it. 
After Christmas and into the New Year RSA tried to find the source  of the leak.  It said that a 
kitchen unit had to be removed and the loss adjuster suggested to Mrs D that she get her 
own builder to do this as it would be quicker. She wasnt  able to find anyone  so RSA 
arranged for the unit to be removed. After lifting part of the kitchen floor the leak was 
discovered and repaired  around 23 January.
RSA left a hole where the flagstones were removed; Mrs D tripped and hurt her knee. Her 
son reported this to RSA who again  offered her alternative accommodation which she 
refused. The repairs  proceeded after that  drying  equipment was installed.  There was some 
argument between  contractors about whether to install the screed  first, but drying  was 
completed. After  that the works had to be put on hold while Mrs D had private work carried 
out to replace her inlet pipe. 
The works to repair  and reinstate the kitchen  took place over June and early July. Services  
were restored to the kitchen in early July. Apart from a couple  of snagging issues the work 
was effectively completed by 10 July.
RSA had responded to a complaint about  delays  and poor communication in March 2018 
and paid Mrs D £500. She didnt raise  further  complaints  with RSA after that but it has 
agreed that we can look at any matters up to the end of the claim in July 2018.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed that RSA increase the compensation 
award by £1,000. RSA didnt agree with this. Mrs D was still unhappy and said that the 
additional £1,000 wasnt proportionate to the distress  and inconvenience  she had suffered.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, in line with awards  weve made in similar 
cases I thought  the payment of £500  was an appropriate award of compensation.
In response Mrs D said that she shouldnt have been expected  to move into alternative  
accommodation. She believes that, in light of what is happening now concerning  the people  
being in isolation  RSA didnt take account of the effect on her mental  health  over being out of 
the property for several months and being  away from friends and neighbours. She doesnt 
think the compensation takes account of this or the poor management  or poor workmanship.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ref: DRN90627682delays/ failure to communicate
There were delays in the early part of this claim, particularly  in connection with the initial  
trace and access. This was started  on 27 December when it was identified that a kitchen unit 
needed to be removed. Mrs D was advised that it would be quicker for her to get a builder in 
to do this. I think it was unrealistic to expect  Mrs D to get a builder to be able to attend  at 
short notice to remove a kitchen unit. RSA has access to a number of contractors, including 
emergency ones.  This caused a couple of weeks delay.
Trace and access and the eventual repair of the pipe took until 23 January. Although I 
recognise that the floor had to be dug up in places I think this was too long, and the leak 
continued during this time. Because it wasnt recognised that the floor had to be filled in 
before drying  could  start and it wasnt  adequately  covered,  unfortunately Mrs D tripped and 
fell and hurt her knee. I cant hold RSA responsible for the fact that she was on the premises 
but given that she was there it could have  been made safer,
There were then some delays in organising the right equipment to do the drying, particularly 
over whether  a screed should be laid first. Drying took until 26 March when the equipment  
was removed.
I think there were delays up until that point and some miscommunication  between 
contractors.
After that, I take into account that the work was held up from 19 April until 11 June because 
Mrs D was having a new private inlet pipe installed.  This required getting permission from 
the utility company to connect it to the mains.  I think the work  progressed at a reasonable 
rate after that, and was effectively complete by early July.
alternative accommodation
Mrs D repeatedly refused  offers of alternative  accommodation. Her son was involved in the 
claim and approved schedules of work.  He wasnt able to persuade  her to move out as she 
thought it would be more stressful for her if she did.
Mrs D has said that she should have been  advised  that moving out was the only safe course 
of action. But theres only so much  RSA could have done. It paid her a disturbance  
allowance of £10 per day for the entire period se was without services in the kitchen, and 
that was the only part of the house  affected  by the work. 
Mrs D also tells us she was glad she refused  the offer as she was able to notice how the 
leak affected the property eg sodden skirting  boards. She further pointed  out that the drying  
company had to have  the seriousness of the situation pointed out to it. Ive already noted  the 
delays in tracing and accessing the leak and in arranging drying. It was suggested by her 
that RSA pay the cost of a serviced apartment  but I dont think  that thats appropriate. We 
have to assess cases as they are and I cant award compensation because RSA saved  the 
cost of providing this.
compensation
Regrettably, whilst  noting that she has been previously advised that we thought it 
appropriate to make a much higher  award, I dont think  that I can justify asking RSA to 
increase the award it has already made..
Ref: DRN90627683As for the distress and inconvenience suffered, I can well understand Mrs Ds frustration at 
the delays in dealing with the leak and in getting  the drying done. And I understand that it 
was awkward for her to have to move around large  drying equipment, but that was the 
unfortunate result of her being there.  It was decided  that smaller  equipment  wasnt sufficient. 
It was also unfortunate  that Mrs D tripped  where the hole was and RSAs contractors should 
have covered this better. It did renew  its offer of alternative accommodation  after that but 
Mrs D was adamant that she wanted to stay.
Mrs D has pointed out that RSA offered the payment  in March 2018, several months before the 
repairs were completed.  But I cant see that very much went  wrong  with the claim after that. As 
Ive said, the repairs  were put on hold for eight  weeks. And from considering her complaints, the 
only issues were the underfloor heating which she was told by the contractor who repaired the 
floor had been put back badly. I cant see that this was raised with RSA as an issue  or that there 
have been any problems with it since. If there are Mrs D should raise  them  with RSA.
The other issues were largely snagging   there was a slight delay in putting the taps back 
and the replacement of a black  strip around  the worktop with a white  one.
An escape  of water and the resulting drying out and repairs is extremely  disruptive and 
stressful. I do think some  of that could have been avoided if Mrs D had moved out, but as 
shes pointed out herself that too can be very stressful.  For the extra distress and 
inconvenience caused in the first few months  of this claim  overall, I think  the award of £500  
is appropriate. This takes into account  the issues Ive mentioned, and is in line with awards 
we have made in similar  cases.
financial loss
Mrs D had to spend  more on food. But this is what the disturbance allowance was for. It isn't 
intended to compensate for distress  and inconvenience  it is a payment to help offset  the 
extra cost of being without services eg in having to buy ready-made meals.
Her son incurred travel  costs. I cant award  those as he isnt a policyholder. And it appears  
this was done in the course of helping his mother out.
She will incur  extra  premiums.  That may unfortunately  be true, but its impossible for me to say 
that the delays  would have added so much to the claim  payment as to affect the premiums. 
I think its unlikely.
I dont think it would  be right to judge this matter in terms of what is happening now. I do 
appreciate Mrs Ds reasons for not wanting  to be in alternative accommodation. But when a 
claim makes parts of a property uninhabitable there  is often little alternative and this will cause 
in some cases a lot of inconvenience  but that is a consequence of the loss that has 
occurred, not due to any fault of an insurer. When policyholders choose not to move out the 
standard practice is to pay a disturbance allowance to account for extra costs incurred, but the 
inconvenience they suffer by staying at home  as occurred due to their choice, not any fault of 
the insurer. Neither situation is ideal. To the extent that extra  distress  and inconvenience  was 
caused by failures  of RSA, I still think the payment of £500 was sufficient.
I maintain my provisional findings which are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN90627684my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062768