K820x#14Complaint
Miss A complains  that Vanquis Bank Limited will not refund a payment she made  with her 
Vanquis credit card for a repair to her car.  She brings her complaint under section 75 (the 
connected-lender-liability provision) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background
In September  2018, Miss A took her car to a main dealer  garage  for repair.  But after the 
garage had done the repair and she had paid for it, Miss A continued to have problems with 
her car.  She returned to the garage several  times during the succeeding few months  and, 
the following  January,  she obtained an independent  report about her car.  Although  not on 
headed paper she considered that the report supported her view that the garage had not 
done the initial repair properly.
The garage disputed  Miss As summary  of events, saying   in outline   that her further visits 
(after the initial repair had been  completed)  were for different things.  Whilst they accepted  
there had been  a problem  with one of the later repairs, they said that was not related  to the 
original transaction   and they had, in any event, put that right.  Miss A then complained  to 
Vanquis, but the bank  did not uphold her claim  so she came to us.
Our investigator set out the basis  of how section 75 works, and he then explained  why he 
did not recommend  that Miss As complaint should  be upheld.  In  summary, he said that the 
problems which had occurred with her car after the garage had done  the initial repair were 
different, and the independent diagnostic report she had provided did not appear to relate  to 
the same  thing either.  The  investigator  also noted that the report was not on company 
headed paper,  and it was also not possible to say who had added the handwritten  phrase 
EGR pipe on the document.  
Miss A did not accept  that outcome, and she asked  for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I would also like to apologise  to 
Miss A, and to Vanquis Bank, for the time it has taken  us to complete our review.
As the investigator  explained, under section 75 a customer  can bring a claim against their 
card-issuing bank if they make a credit  card payment and consider that the supplier  acted 
either in breach of contract or misrepresented the transaction.  The relevant issue  here is 
whether or not the garage failed to complete  the initial repair  properly and with reasonable 
care and skill, and so acted in breach  of contract towards Miss A.
The original  problem with Miss As car was that a warning light had come on.  The  garage 
diagnosed the fault which had caused  it to illuminate,  replaced a part, and the light went  off.  
There is no dispute that, when the car was being  road tested after this work had been 
completed, other problems were noticed.   But Im satisfied that they were  different issues, 
which were not related  to the original  fault.   Further problems with Miss As car were  
identified in later visits  to the garage, and they accept that they did not initially  repair one of 
them properly  but they later dealt with that.
Ref: DRN95593622The diagnostic report which Miss A has provided is dated 9 January 2019,  four months after 
the initial repair to her car and after she had taken it back to the garage on several  occasions  
when other  problems were discovered.  The report does not directly refer to the original  
problem Miss A experienced, so I do not accept that it reasonably shows that the garage 
acted in breach  of contract towards Miss A in respect of the initial repair.   
In all the circumstances, therefore, I am unable to accept that the evidence shows that the 
garage acted in breach of contract  towards  Miss A and failed to undertake the initial  repair 
with reasonable  care and skill.  It follows from this that I do not consider that the bank is 
liable, under section 75, to reimburse  Miss A for the cost of the original repair  to her car. 
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I do not uphold  Miss As 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9559362