K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained that Santander  UK Plc (Santander),  trading as Abbey 
National, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage  in 
2005.
background
I previously sent Santander  and Mr and Mrs A my provisional decision on this complaint. 
That provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and 
I explained why I didnt think that Santander had mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs A. I asked both 
parties to send me any further comments and evidence they wanted me to consider before I 
made a final decision.  The period of time I gave for responses has now passed  and neither 
party has sent me anything further. 
 my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out or general  approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in reaching 
my final decision on Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive looked into everything that Santander and Mr  and Mrs A have told us or sent us 
throughout this case, but as there  is nothing new for me to consider since I sent my 
provisional decision, I have reached  the same  conclusion for the same reasons. 
I do not think that Santander  mis-sold  PPI to Mr and Mrs A. Ive also thought about whether 
Santander needs to give back to Mr and Mrs A some of the commission  they paid. The 
Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  types of mortgage  
agreement, including a regulated mortgage . As Mr and Mrs As mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So Santander doesnt need to 
refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint that 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a PPI policy. I am not going to tell it to give them  any 
money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99181162Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that in 2005 Santander  UK Plc (Santander), trading  as Abbey 
National, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection  with a mortgage.  
They are seeking financial compensation.
background
One of our adjudicators  has already looked into Mr and Mrs As case. Mrs A had a medical condition  
when Mr and Mrs A bought the policy and the adjudicator thought this meant that the policy  
Santander advised them to buy didnt  meet their needs. So the adjudicator recommended that 
Santander should uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Santander didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case. So it has come to me to consider.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  what to do in Mr and Mrs As case. Ive looked into everything that 
Santander and Mr and Mrs A have sent us or told us about  the complaint  and Im not currently 
intending to uphold it. I realise this may now come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, but I hope 
my explanation will help them to accept my reasons.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A originally took out their mortgage in 2003 without PPI. In 2005, they 
took a further advance and bought  their PPI policy during a meeting  about  this advance with one of 
Santanders advisers.
Mr and Mrs A have said that Santander didnt tell them  about PPI during this meeting, but simply 
added it to their mortgage without their permission.  However, Santander  has sent us copies  of some 
of its records from the time and in my view these show that it did discuss PPI with Mr and Mrs A.
The records  describe different types of insurance, some of which Mr and Mrs A seem to have wanted 
and some of which they seem to have declined. The records  include a recommendation that 
Mr and Mrs A take a joint PPI policy  covering  both of them if they were unable to work due to accident  
or sickness. I think its very likely that Santander discussed this recommendation with Mr and Mrs A 
during the meeting. And Santanders records say they accepted that recommendation.
Once Mr and Mrs As PPI policy was up and running they paid for it monthly, separately from their 
mortgage repayments. They would have had to arrange these  separate payments either  during or 
after their meeting with Santander. I dont think they would have done so if they hadnt agreed to buy 
it.
I accept that Mr and Mrs A are trying their best to remember what happened in a meeting which took 
place over ten years ago, but Im not convinced that Santander added PPI to their mortgage without 
their consent.  I think its more likely that Santander gave them the choice to continue their mortgage 
without PPI or to take it, and they chose to take it.
Mr and Mrs A have told us that Santander  didnt recommend the policy to them  or advise  them to take 
it. However Santander  has told us that it did recommend PPI to them.  This meant that Santander  had 
to check  that the policy was right for Mr and Mrs A and tell them  about  it fairly  and clearly  so they 
Ref: DRN99181163could decide if they wanted  it. So in fairness to Mr and Mrs A, I have considered the case on the basis 
that Santander  did make a recommendation.
Although Santanders records include some information about what happened during the meeting, 
they dont tell me about everything that was said or not said. So Ive looked at the policys features 
and what I know about Mr and Mrs As circumstances  at the time to see if it was reasonable for 
Santander to recommend the policy to them.
The policy had exclusions  which could have affected  people who had problems with their health at the 
time they bought it. Mr and Mrs A have told us about a health  condition from which Mrs A had 
suffered for several years  when they bought the policy. They  have told us that she was taking on-
going medication (tablets)  for this condition, but it didnt  have any impact on her daily life and had 
never caused  her to miss work.
Santander has argued that the precise  wording  of the policy  meant that Mrs A may have been 
covered for this condition. It has highlighted  a clause in the policy which says the exclusion would  not 
apply if policyholders  had been symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for 
the condition in the 24 months prior to a claim.  As it seems that Mrs A was receiving ongoing 
treatment for her condition, Im not wholly convinced  by Santanders  argument on this point.
However, I am satisfied that Mrs As condition was under control  by her medication, and was unlikely  
to have led her to take time off work. When Mr and Mrs A took the policy, I dont think that they would 
have thought  it likely that Mrs As condition would have led them  to try to claim on the policy. So 
despite Mrs As health  condition I think it was reasonable for Santander to  recommend PPI to her and 
Mr A.
From what Ive seen, Mr A and Mrs A werent affected  by any of the policys other main  limitations and 
exclusions, and they both met its eligibility rules. They also seem to have been  able to afford the 
premiums.
Mr and Mrs A have said that they may not have  needed  the policy  as they would  both have been 
entitled to sick pay if they were off work ill and they had some savings  which they could  have used  to 
make their mortgage repayments if needed. They have also explained  that their family may have 
been able to help if necessary and that if one of them was off work they could have used more  of the 
others income.
I fully accept that the resources Mr and Mrs A have described may well have been useful, but I dont 
think they meant that Mr and Mrs A didnt have a potential need for PPI. The policy would  have paid 
out over and above any of these other resources, it would have lasted longer than Mr and Mrs As 
sick pay and would have  allowed them to keep their savings for other things.  Although I accept that 
Mr and Mrs As family may have wanted to help if necessary, their own financial  circumstances may 
have changed and made it difficult for them to do so.
Mr and Mrs As mortgage  placed  a significant financial commitment on them  and not keeping  up with 
their repayments could  have been very serious for them. It would have been harder for them  to meet 
their commitment if they had only one income. So I think the policy  may well have been potentially  
useful for them. I think it was reasonable  for Santander to recommend the policy  to Mr and Mrs A.
Mr and Mrs A have also told us that Santander  didnt explain the terms and conditions of the policy to 
them. I accept that its quite possible  that Santander didnt explain everything to them  as well as it 
should have done. But, Im satisfied that Santander gave Mr and Mrs A a choice about  the policy, that 
they werent affected by its main exclusions or limitations, that they had a potential  need for the cover 
and could afford the policy.  So I think  that Mr and Mrs A would have decided  to buy the policy even if 
Santander had explained everything properly.  I dont think Santander mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
Ive also thought  about  whether Santander needs to give back to Mr and Mrs A some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain  
Ref: DRN99181164types of mortgage agreement, including  a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs As mortgage became 
a regulated mortgage before  6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander doesnt need  to refund  any 
of the commission Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont currently think that Santander UK Plc mis-sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs A, so I dont  currently  intend to tell it to give them any compensation.
I now invite  both parties to respond  to my provisional  decision by 25 February  2019. I will consider 
any responses I receive before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9918116