K821x#15complaint
Mr W, represented by a third party, says that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) 
lent money to him he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr W entered into nine loans with QuickQuid between 
January 2015  and November 2016.  He says that the loans were  unaffordable and that 
further checks on his credit history would  have shown this.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £50 9 Jan 2015 19 Feb 2015
2 £100 22 Mar 2015 21 Apr 2015
3 £50 28 Apr 2015 22 Jun 2015
4 £100 7 Jul 2015 20 Aug 2015
5 £150 21 Aug 2015 20 Nov 2015
6 £200 5 Dec 2015 19 May 2016
7 £100 7 Jun 2016 9 Sep 2016
8 £100 2 Oct 2016 7 Nov 2016
9 £250 19 Nov 2016
QuickQuid says that before lending to Mr W it carried  out appropriate and proportionate 
affordability assessments including  validating Mr Ws income and expenses. It says that the 
interest charged on the first loan was £12.30,  which was only 3% of Mr Ws disposable 
income. 
QuickQuid says that it started  to implement changes to its affordability assessment in June 
2014 and all the changes were completed by 28 February 2015. It says that the affordability 
review implemented was in line with the relevant guidelines.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that loans one to four 
shouldnt have been provided. But she thought loans five onwards shouldnt have been lent. 
She said that from loan five Mr Ws overall pattern of borrowing suggested  he had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans. She noted  he was typically taking out a new loan a 
short time after the previous loan was repaid and that he showed signs  he was struggling  to 
repay some of his loans.  
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case  
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
Ref: DRN98437452the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans - not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Before the loans were  provided information  about  Mr Ws income and expenses  was 
gathered. This showed he had a disposable  income  of around £425. Our adjudicator has 
said that that she didnt have enough evidence to say that the first four loans were unfairly 
provided. I agree with this.
However, by the time Mr W took out his fifth loan, I think that QuickQuid  should  have been 
concerned that he had become reliant  on short term borrowing. He had taken out five loans 
in seven months and was taking out new loans shortly after repaying previous loans. This 
borrowing pattern  continued for the rest of the time Mr W was borrowing from QuickQuid.
The loan amounts fluctuated but were  in general increasing with the first loan being for £50 
and the final loan being for £250. Mr W reported  a low income  and the repayments on the 
larger loans were significant. Mr W incurred  late fees on his fifth loan suggesting  that he was 
experiencing difficulty managing his money, and further fees were incurred on loan seven 
and nine. Mr W topped  up his final loan resulting in a payment amount of more  than half his 
income.
Ref: DRN98437453Based on the above I think that lending  from loan five onwards  was unsustainable and I 
uphold this complaint in regard to these loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr W paid on the loans from 21 August 2015;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any interest and charges from the outstanding balance;
use any redress to offset  the outstanding balance and pay any amount remaining to 
Mr W;
but if there is still an outstanding balance after the offset QuickQuid  may need to set 
up a repayment  plan with Mr W;
the number  of loans taken from loan five means  any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans five to nine should  be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intend  to use the refund to reduce  an amount Mr W owes, it must do this after 
tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9843745