K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his 
commercial property insurance claim.
background
Mr B made a claim after his business suffered a break in. Loss  adjusters were appointed  to 
inspect and provide  a report about the claim.  The claim  was declined as Mr B didnt have the 
right alarm security. Mr B didnt accept this. He said hed made  the broker fully aware what  
alarm he had in operation at the premises and that a quote with LV had been produced on 
this basis. Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Mr B had agreed to the terms and 
conditions when he took out the policy. He said the alarm requirements  were noted under 
the policy so he felt LV acted reasonably when it declined the claim. Our investigator said 
there was no evidence that LV knew the details of the alarm and accepted  it. He noted the 
details provided  through  the quotation system  gave  a warning  about  the full alarm 
requirements. Mr B didnt accept this and asked for his complaint  to be passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reason 
able in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a lot of points about  the sale process he went  through with the broker. Im 
unable to comment on the details of his discussion with the broker here. But I can confirm 
Mr B can take this matter  up with his broker. If any issues cannot be resolved then this 
service can consider a complaint against  the broker.
Ive reviewed the policy schedule provided to Mr B. Within the schedule  it states that the 
alarm requires remote  signalling to an alarm  receiving centre.  I understand that Mr B has 
added to his complaint that the details arent  clear.  However, he was perfectly entitled to 
check or challenge anything he was unclear about or anything  he considered to be jargon. 
But I think the section  Ive noted  above  is clear. The requirement of the policy  was for more 
than a bells/ noise  only alarm. Theres no dispute that the alarm didnt comply  with the policy  
requirements.
I think LV acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim. Its clear  that the alarm 
wasnt at the standard required by the policy  and the policy requirements are clear.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ref: DRN91147962John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9114796