K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mr A complain about the actions of their mortgage lender, HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
They say its unfair that HSBC requires them to complete a mortgage application before it 
will agree to switch their mortgages, which are currently  interest  only,  back  to capital 
repayment. They also complain that HSBC hasnt  dealt with their overpayments correctly  
and hasnt provided copies of documents  theyve requested. Mr M has handled the 
complaint throughout.
background
Mr M and Mr A have three mortgages with HSBC:  two are residential  mortgages and one is 
a buy to let mortgage.  In 2009 they spoke with HSBC as they had mortgage arrears and 
were struggling with unsecured debts. HSBC agreed forbearance arrangements, including  
capitalising mortgage  arrears and switching the mortgages from a capital repayment basis to 
interest only to lower Mr M and Mr As monthly outgoings. 
Mr M and Mr As financial circumstances have since improved. Theyve made overpayments  
to the accounts  since  mid 2015.  And theyd like to switch back  to capital repayment or agree 
another solution to ensure  the mortgages are repaid. The two residential  mortgages are due 
to expire in 2028 and the buy to let mortgage is due to expire in 2029.
Mr M says that HSBC is making  it difficult to switch the mortgages back  to capital repayment 
and is asking for new applications  to be submitted. Mr M thinks  this may be to take away  the 
competitive interest  rate they currently have. Mr M says HSBC  hasnt provided copies of 
documents and other information  to him, despite him requesting this. 
Mr M says despite them making  extra payments to the mortgage accounts  to reduce the 
capital, the amount of interest being applied to the accounts hasnt reduced. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
application process would allow HSBC to assess whether changing the mortgages to capital 
repayment is affordable.  The investigator  said it was reasonable for HSBC to assess  
affordability when  deciding whether the change would be in Mr M and Mr As best interests.
Our investigator said HSBCs letter to Mr M and Mr A explaining how the balance  of their 
mortgages reduced when they made  overpayments  was clear. And it had also provided 
statements. And HSBC  responded to Mr Ms subject access request.
Mr M didnt  agree. He wanted the investigator to look into events in 2009 to 2010   which  
wed already said we were unable to do. He said the investigator hadnt understood the 
complaint and set out his complaint points, which Ive used as the basis  for setting out my 
findings below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN98258072An ombudsman has issued a decision  saying  that we cant  consider Mr M and Mr As 
complaints about  events  in 2009 and 2010. I appreciate Mr Ms concern that the parts  of the 
complaint that we can look into arent  considered in a vacuum and I can assure  him Im 
familiar with the history of the account. 
Mr M and Mr A have three mortgage accounts with HSBC: two residential  mortgages and a 
buy to let mortgage. The concerns raised by Mr M and Mr A apply to all three  mortgages.  
While some regulations apply differently to residential mortgages and buy to let mortgages, 
this hasnt resulted  in me reaching a different outcome for the different types  of mortgages 
here. So Ive dealt with all of the mortgages  together in my decision. 
Mr M says HSBC  hasnt helped him and Mr A find a way to repay the capital. Requiring  them  
to go through  a new application is unreasonable as this wasnt required when they switched 
to interest only.
Since Mr M and Mr A took out the mortgages,  regulations have changed. Before  offering  a 
new loan or making  changes to an existing loan, HSBC has to make more stringent checks 
of affordability.  However, the regulations allow HSBC to make changes  to an interest  only 
residential mortgage contract without assessing  affordability if the change  would be in Mr M 
and Mr As best interests. 
I appreciate the significance  Mr M puts on the fact that these were initially  capital repayment 
mortgages. Nonetheless, at this point  they are on an interest  only basis. Its in everyones 
interests to find a means to ensure the mortgages are repaid.
One solution is for the mortgages to be switched back  to capital repayment. Mr M says hes 
happy to provide whatever information HSBC needs  to facilitate a switch  to capital 
repayment. Hes also said its reasonable for HSBC to assess  whether switching to a capital  
repayment mortgage is affordable. Id add here that I think an assessment of affordability is 
relevant to HSBCs assessment of whether a change to capital repayment would be in Mr M 
and Mr As best interests. 
HSBCs process  for this is for an application to be completed.  This will provide the 
information HSBC  needs to assess whether the switch to capital repayment  is affordable and 
in Mr M and Mr As best interests. I dont think this is unreasonable.
If Mr M and Mr A have other credible plans to repay the mortgages  they can of course 
propose these to HSBC.  Id expect HSBC to consider their proposals fairly.  Id also expect  
Mr M and Mr A to provide the information  HSBC requests in order  for it to consider  their 
proposals.
Mr M has expressed concern that the switch to capital repayment  will mean theyll have to 
take out a new mortgage  product. Hed prefer to keep the interest  rate they currently have. I 
understand that hed like to keep their interest rate if its lower than the products currently 
offered by HSBC. But I dont think its reasonable to require HSBC to allow  Mr M and Mr A to 
keep the product they have if this isnt now available for capital repayment mortgages.  
Ref: DRN98258073Mr M says HSBC  should have reviewed  their mortgages on an annual basis.  Because  of its 
failure to do so, they lost the opportunity to make capital repayments over several  years.
Mr M says HSBC  should have reviewed  their mortgage accounts on an annual basis and 
contacted them about switching back to capital repayment. HSBC  says this isnt a service  it 
provides. 
I dont think its fair to say that HSBC didnt contact  Mr M and Mr A about  repaying the 
mortgages. For instance, it wrote to them in 2013  and 2014  saying  their mortgage was on 
interest only terms and it wanted  to help ensure they were  on track to repay the balance  
within the agreed term. It suggested solutions,  including changing the mortgage  to include 
capital repayments.  It also sent annual statements which  said the mortgages were interest 
only.
So I think HSBC made Mr M and Mr A aware their mortgage accounts are interest only and 
they needed to think about  how to repay them   and that one way could be to switch to 
capital repayment.
Once Mr M and Mr As circumstances improved  and they thought a switch  back to capital  
repayments would be affordable they could have contacted  HSBC.  There was nothing 
preventing Mr M and Mr A from making  overpayments to reduce the capital outstanding  as 
indeed theyve done since mid 2015.  I dont agree that HSBC  made  an error which meant  
Mr M and Mr A lost the opportunity to make capital repayments. 
Mr M says despite making overpayments,  the monthly interest charged on the accounts 
didnt reduce. 
HSBC wrote to Mr M and Mr A explaining what happens when an overpayment is received. 
Ive looked at its letter and I think its explanation is clear. Mr M says its unreasonable that 
we expect him to work out what  the interest  charge  errors are. But I havent seen anything  to 
suggest theres been an error. So, unless Mr M is able to provide evidence  of an error,  I 
cant look into this further.
Mr M says HSBC  didnt treat him and Mr A fairly when  dealing with their complaint, as it 
failed to address  their complaints, didnt speak to Mr M by telephone, ignored many of the 
issues raised and didnt further consider its final response as it had offered to do.
As our investigator explained, we cant consider complaints about complaint handling as it 
isnt a regulated  activity.  
Mr M says HSBC  failed to comply with his request for all relevant paperwork about the 
mortgage.
HSBC responded  to Mr Ms subject access request. Mr M says theres material  missing. If 
Mr M remains concerned about this, he should contact the information commissioner office.
Ref: DRN98258074my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9825807