K821x#15Complaint
Mr W has complained that Martin Aitken Financial Services  Limited  (MAFS) recommended  
he transfer benefits held in a pension scheme  with his former employer to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP).  The funds were  subsequently invested in high-risk investments 
which Mr W says werent  suitable for him. 
Background
Mr W was introduced to MAFS through an unregulated introducer, Mr B, in 2015. Mr W says 
Mr B continued to be involved in the discussions he had with the MAFSs adviser, Mr M, and 
facilitated the completion of paperwork. 
In November 2015 Mr M produced a pension transfer report in which he recommended  Mr W 
transfer the cash equivalent transfer  value of his occupational pension  scheme  (OPS), an 
additional voluntary contribution plan and a contracted out money purchase scheme  to a 
SIPP with a business Ill refer to as L. Mr M recommended that the funds  be placed in the 
SIPP cash account. The report  said the underlying investments would be administered by a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM)  who Ill refer to as B.
Another pension  transfer report was issued  in December 2015,  but the recommendation was 
amended. Mr M recommended Mr W use B to access  its mode portfolio service,  based on 
his attitude to risk which had been  assessed as 4/10 or low-medium. The report said MAFS 
would be responsible for the ongoing  management  of Mr Ws funds through B, for which  it 
would take an annual fee of 0.5%  of the plan value.
Mr W accepted the recommendations and a total of £878,074.26 was transferred to the SIPP 
in February 2016.  Mr W took £75,074.99 as tax-free cash. MAFS took a fee of 2% of the 
transfer value.
Mr Ws funds  were invested  with B on 15 February 2016, and another  DFM,  who Ill refer to 
as S on 11 February  2016.
In early 2017 MAFS started  looking into pension advice  provided where  Mr B had acted as 
the introducer. Mr W subsequently found  he had lost significant  funds through high risk 
investments with B and funds had been  used to purchase bonds with S, which  were  now 
illiquid. So, he complained. Mr W said that he was led to believe Mr B was either working  for 
MAFS or he was working with MAFS on the investments.  He said his funds had been  
invested in high-risk  illiquid investments that had made significant  losses  he estimated he 
had lost around £450,000  without taking into account loss of investment growth.
MAFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said the pension advice was suitable and it was both B 
and Ss responsibility  to ensure his funds were invested in line with his low-medium attitude 
to risk. It said it couldnt be held responsible for the actions of Mr B or the actions of B or S 
where they had invested his funds contrary to his attitude to risk.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and our adjudicator upheld  it. He didnt think 
MAFSs advice that Mr W use a DFM,  such as B, was suitable for Mr W as he had no need 
for his funds  to be actively managed. He thought if MAFS hadnt  recommended Mr W place  
his funds with B they wouldnt have been exposed to such a high investment risk. The 
adjudicator recommended  Mr W should  be compensated by comparing the performance  of 
Ref: DRN96167782his funds with a benchmark.  He also recommended  that MAFS should  pay Mr W £250 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
MAFS didnt agree and asked for a final decision. It said the adjudicator had failed to take the 
role of B, S and L into account and their regulatory  obligations to Mr W. It also said Mr B had 
acted in his own capacity without involving MAFS, which  had directly  led to Mr Ws losses.  
I contacted both parties to explain why I thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. I didnt 
agree that using  a DFM  was unsuitable for Mr W given the size of his fund. But I said 
I thought MAFS had a duty to consider the suitability  of the investments intended to be held 
within Mr Ws SIPP. And I thought it had failed to make any contact  with B to establish  how 
Mr Ws funds  would  be invested, which I said had led to his losses. I also thought that MAFS 
had acted on instructions  from Mr B when it shouldnt have, which had again led to avoidable 
losses when Mr Ws funds were invested with S. I recommended Mr W should be 
compensated using  a benchmark and paid £250  for the trouble  and upset caused.
MAFS accepted my findings  but told me that it would be limiting  its offer to Mr W to £150,000 
 our award  limit. It made an offer to Mr W of £150,000 in full and final settlement of his 
complaint against  MAFS. Mr W considered this but ultimately rejected it as he said his total 
loss was substantially  more than this and he didnt feel he could accept the lower sum.
As no agreement could be reached  at this stage, Im making a final decision on the matter.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding it for the 
same reasons I gave  provisionally.
I should first say that I dont think MAFSs advice to Mr W to transfer his OPS  benefits to a 
SIPP was unsuitable.  Mr W required access to some tax-free cash  immediately for home  
improvements and he wasnt due to retire  for another  two years.  He also wanted the entirety 
of his pension  benefits to pass  to his wife and daughter in the event of his death. 
Furthermore, the amount his investments would need to grow  by annually  to purchase an 
annuity that would match the benefits  provided  by his OPS  (the critical yield)  was low and 
achievable given  his attitude  to risk. So, I dont think transferring the OPS  benefits to a SIPP  
was unsuitable  for him.
However, in providing  the advice it gave Mr W, MAFS was subject to the regulators Conduct  
of Business Rules. And at the time of the advice I think the regulator had made its view clear  
that in order to suitably advise on pension  transferring to a SIPP,  a firm needed to consider 
the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. So, I think Mr M had a duty to 
consider the suitability of the investments intended  to be held within Mr Ws SIPP.  
Furthermore, in Mr Ws SIPP application  form under Professional Adviser  Details,  Mr M 
signed to confirm the following type of advice had been provided:
Advice given at point  of sale to client that takes account of the intended underlying 
investment strategy.
Ref: DRN96167783I appreciate that the intention was for Mr W to invest his funds in Bs model portfolio service. 
MAFS says it was then Bs responsibility to ensure the investments selected  met Mr Ws 
attitude to risk.  But MAFS remained Mr Ws financial adviser and so had overall 
responsibility and oversight  in ensuring that B was broadly implementing the sort of 
approach that would reasonably be expected for Mr Ws attitude  to risk. 
Despite Mr M signing  the SIPP application  form confirming his advice had taken  account  of 
the underlying  investment strategy, I cant see that he did any investigation  into the assets  
the low-medium portfolio was invested in or that he engaged with B at all to understand how 
Mr Ws funds  would  be invested. It also doesnt  appear that Mr M passed on any relevant 
information about Mr Ws plan to retire in the next two years to ensure that sufficient 
provision would be made for this. In fact, he only passed on a very basic description of 
Mr Ws attitude to risk to B in April 2016, by which time a number of higher risk investments 
had already been made.
As MAFS  was providing an ongoing advised  service  to Mr W, for which it was being  paid 
ongoing fees, I think it should  have  been  in a position to ensure that Mr Ws funds were 
invested appropriately. It is evident  that there wasnt any oversight from Mr M in respect  of 
the investment  choices  made, and I think it is this approach that led to Mr Ws losses with B.
With regard to the investments made  with S, MAFS says it had no control over this 
whatsoever. It says Mr B arranged these investments directly with Mr W, without involving 
MAFS. However, I think MAFS misrepresented  Mr Bs status  as a financial adviser to Mr W 
in the November 2015 pension transfer  report. I can see that the sentence  identifying  Mr B 
as a financial adviser was removed from the December 2015  report,  but it was clearly stated 
in the November 2015 report. I think this has had a significant impact here.
Mr M had a duty to act in Mr Ws best interests, and I think this would include making it clear to 
him that Mr B wasnt regulated in any capacity to carry out investment activities. I think  Mr W 
shouldve been  warned  that if he chose to engage his services  further,  he wouldnt be protected.
It is clear that Mr M allowed Mr B to continue to be involved with arranging  investments long 
after the introduction had been made, and Mr W has told us he believed Mr B was acting on 
behalf of MAFS. If Mr W had been made aware  of Mr Bs status  as an unregulated 
introducer, and had no connection  to MAFS, I dont think he wouldve signed any application 
forms provided by Mr B or engaged with him any further after his introduction to MAFS. So, 
I think its very unlikely Mr W wouldve invested with S but for Mr Bs involvement  and Mr Ws 
cooperation.
Notwithstanding the above, Ive also seen clear evidence demonstrating  that MAFS was 
aware that an account with S had been set up before any investments were  made:
an email from MAFSs administrator on 25 January 2016 stating: [Mr B] has asked 
me to confirm to you that he sent the account opening forms to you on Friday in 
respect of the above. The forms are for [B] and [S], so if you havent received  these  
today you should have them by tomorrow.
an email from the SIPP provider to S copying in MAFSs administrator on 
26 January 2016 including  details  of the new account to be opened in the SIPP.
Ref: DRN96167784As no advice  had been provided to Mr W in respect  of placing any investments through  S, 
and given the ongoing involvement of the unregulated introducer, I wouldve expected Mr M 
to follow  up with Mr W to ensure he was aware of this and understood the risks involved. 
In addition to having knowledge that the account with S had been  opened,  contrary  to the 
advice given, theres also clear evidence that MAFS accepted and acted upon instructions 
from Mr B, which is highly irregular. The file notes provided show Mr B phoned the MAFSs 
administrator on 4 February  2016 asking her to send £300,000  to S. She then sent an email 
with this instruction  to the SIPP provider on the same day. Its not clear  why the introducer 
was giving instructions  to MAFS  to pass on to the SIPP provider.
I know that a number of Execution Only letters were sent to the SIPP provider, purporting to 
be from Mr W, which he denies seeing.  I can see a letter was sent directly  to S dated 
21 January 2016  (bearing  Mr Ws name  and signature) confirming that he wished to 
purchase £300,000 of bonds. But the only way this couldve  actually  happened  was by 
MAFS facilitating it. MAFS instructed  the SIPP provider to send the money to the account  
with S on 4 February  2016. Without having  done  this, the purchase of the bonds wouldnt 
have gone ahead.
The unregulated introducer shouldnt have had any say or influence  over where Mr Ws 
funds were invested. And MAFS shouldnt have acted on any instruction from the introducer 
about where Mr Ws money should be sent.  So, I wouldve expected MAFS to have 
contacted Mr W to establish what, if anything,  he knew about the transaction.  Had MAFS, as 
Mr Ws adviser, taken  this action, I think its likely MAFS wouldve discovered Mr W was 
possibly acting under  Mr Bs influence, or that the Execution Only letters  sent to the SIPP  
provider may have been written and sent without his knowledge. 
The investment in the bonds through S (an illiquid corporate bond) wasnt suitable or in line 
with Mr Ws low-medium  attitude to risk. And despite the influence  of Mr B here, I think if 
MAFS had warned Mr W against any investment via S, Mr W wouldve most likely followed 
that advice. I say this because  he had a lower attitude to risk and capacity for loss, and 
needed to access  his funds in around  two years.
This means  that I also think the later investments  with S wouldnt have taken place. This is 
because I think it most  likely the account with S wouldve been closed if Mr M had followed 
things up appropriately  when MAFS was made aware of the existence of the account  in 
January 2016.
DFM involvement
I recognise that MAFS argues that the DFMs actions may have also separately caused 
some of Mr Ws loss. So, I have  considered  whether I should  apportion  only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to MAFS. In the circumstances, though,  I think  it fair 
to make an award for the whole loss against  MAFS.
I think MAFS advised with complete disregard  for Mr Ws interests  (given the lack of steps  it 
took to establish how the portfolio with B was invested and the failure  to question the S 
account opening).  MAFS also continued to take fees from the investment that it should  have 
been monitoring. So, anything that B or S might  also have  done  wrong  doesnt  make it 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case for MAFS to avoid compensating for the losses 
they may have gone on to cause. So, I think apportioning responsibility to MAFS for the 
whole of the loss represents  fair compensation in this case.
Ref: DRN96167785Im aware Mr W has cases with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
about B and S, but both are on hold pending  the outcome  of the cases  Mr W has with our 
service. 
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS  wont pay out if a third party  could also be 
held liable. This means an apportionment  of only part of the loss to MAFS could risk leaving 
Mr W out of pocket. With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr W wouldnt have lost 
out at all but for MAFSs failings and that MAFS benefitted financially from advising  on this 
transaction  I think apportioning responsibility  to MAFS for the whole of the loss represents  
fair compensation in this case.
Furthermore, my understanding is that if the FSCS were to make  an award to Mr W in 
respect of his complaints about B and S, it would seek  to reclaim any compensation he had 
received from third parties  that were  related  to those claims.  So, I dont think  Mr W would 
benefit from double  recovery. However, I think its reasonable  that if the FSCS doesnt seek  
to recover other compensation he had been paid, Mr W should  provide an undertaking to 
repay MAFS any compensation that he has received (in combination from both) over and 
above his total losses as calculated by the method I have outlined below.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr W would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr W's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should MAFS do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, MAFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
         MAFS  should  add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, MAFS should  pay into Mr W's pension  plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If MAFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Ref: DRN96167786For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr W £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the failings that occurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MAFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. MAFS should  give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPP mixedfor half the 
investment: FTSE  
UK Private  
Investors  Income 
Total Return  
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed  rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days 
of the business 
being  notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. MAFS 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above.
If MAFS is unable to purchase the investment  the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. MAFS may require that Mr W provides an undertaking to pay 
MAFS any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must  
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. MAFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  MAFS should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Ref: DRN96167787Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if MAFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted income with some growth  with a small  risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position.  It does  not mean that 
Mr W would  have invested  50% of his money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 50% in some  
kind of index tracker  investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr W could  have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective  and risk attitude. 
My final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Martin  Aitken  
Financial Services Limited  pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should  be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Martin Aitken Financial Services  Limited 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation  up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
If Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Mr W. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited  (excluding  any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.  
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited may request  an undertaking from Mr W that either 
he repays to it any amount he may receive  from the investment  thereafter,  or if possible, 
transfers the investment at that point.
Mr W should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Ref: DRN96167788Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Martin Aitken Financial Services  Limited pays Mr W the balance 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9616778