K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs G said she thought  the PPI was sold to her in a meeting. But BoS says the PPI was sold 
over the phone. The adjudicator assessed this case on the basis that the PPI was sold over 
the phone, and neither  party responded to disagree,  so Ive also considered  this as a 
telephone sale in my decision. 
 
Mrs G says it wasnt clear  the PPI was optional  and she wasnt given the choice to opt out of 
the policy. Due to the length of time thats  passed  there is no longer a call recording  for me 
to listen to. So I dont  know exactly what was discussed in the call. But Ive seen a copy  of 
Mrs Gs credit card agreement which BoS says was sent to her following the call. And based 
on this evidence, I think BoS made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Mrs Gs credit agreement  included  a section for PPI where there  is a printed x in 
the box to agree to the policy.  So I think its likely PPI was discussed  in the call and Mrs G 
agreed for it to be added to her account.  Once  she received the credit agreement Mrs G 
signed next to the x to confirm her decision to take out PPI. This signature is separate  and 
additional to her signature to agree to the credit  so I think  this reflected what  she wanted  at 
the time.   
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check  that the policy was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs G says that as she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and had some savings at 
the time,  the PPI wasnt suitable for her. But upon  a successful  claim the PPI wouldve paid 
10% of Mrs Gs outstanding monthly  balance (up to £2,500) for up to 12 months.  And this 
wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Gs sick pay and savings, so she was free to use these 
funds for other expenses  had she been unable  to work. So I dont think Mrs Gs sick pay and 
savings meant the policy wasnt  suitable  for her.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it looks like she chose to take it out - so I think she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN95229032This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs G paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs G back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs G and I dont think it needs to do 
anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9522903