K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about an instalment  loan he took out with Madison CF UK Limited 
(trading as 118 118 Money) in 2017. Amongst  other things, hes said that the loan was 
unaffordable and so 118 118 Money lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
Mr S initially  complained about having  been provided with two instalment loans by            
118 118 Money. The first loan was provided  in October 2016.  It was for £2000  and due to 
repaid in 24 instalments. This loan was settled when Mr S applied  for further  borrowing in 
November 2017.  The November 2017 loan was for £2779.24  (which  included an amount of 
£1529.24 to clear  the outstanding balance on the October 2016 loan  so Mr S received 
£1250.00) and this loan was also due to be repaid over 24 months.
When it initially investigated Mr S complaint, 118 118 Money accepted that it shouldnt have 
provided the October 2016 loan. It refunded the interest Mr S paid and then reduced  the 
balance on the November 2017 loan to reflect the fact that Mr S borrowed extra in order to 
repay his first loan.  Mr S was dissatisfied at 118 118 Moneys response as he thought that it 
was unfair  for it to have provided  his November 2017 loan too.   
One of our adjudicators looked  at what 118 118 Money and Mr S said.  He thought that     
118 118 Money unfairly provided the November 2017 loan to Mr S. So our adjudicator 
thought that Mr S complaint should  be upheld. As 118 118 Money disagreed with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
As 118 118 Money has already agreed  that it shouldnt  have provided the October 2016 loan 
to Mr S, this decision isnt looking at whether it acted unfairly at this time. All Im looking at is 
whether 118 118 Money acted fairly and reasonably in providing the November 2017  loan to 
Mr S and what effect this has on what it has already agreed to do to put things right for the 
October 2016 loan.
the regulatory framework
118 118 Money was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
when it lent to Mr S. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms  are required to 
follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.  
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN92523922the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like 118 118 Money.  
CONC also replaced the requirements  set out in Section 55B CONC 5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after 
a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN92523923CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Ref: DRN92523924Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been  able to do so?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that 118 118 Money  didnt act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr S 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Did 118 118 Money  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time 118 118 Money  lent to Mr S required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr S could afford to repay his 
loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The affordability checks had to be borrower-focused   so 118 118 Money had to think 
about whether  Mr S would  be able to repay the loan sustainably.  In practice this meant that 
118 118 Money had to ensure that making  the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words, it wasnt enough  for 118 118 
Money to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money  back, it had to consider the 
impact of loan repayments on Mr S.
Any checks  also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check  will be dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
Ref: DRN92523925the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
118 118 Money says it carried  out a number of credit and affordability checks  before it 
decided to lend to Mr S. It says that it carried out a credit check and its decision to lend was 
based on this, the income and expenditure information provided by Mr S and the bank 
statements requested.  As far as 118 118 Money is concerned  the loan was affordable based 
on everything it had. 
Ive carefully thought  about what 118 118 Money has said. But it isnt enough just to carry 
out checks. A lender  also needs to react to the information it receives. And, in this case, Im 
mindful that Mr S was asked to provide copies of his most recent  bank statements. The bank 
statements Mr S provided showed  that Mr S had been taken out a significant number of 
high-cost short-term loans  in the months leading up to the November 2017 application. 
Equally 118 118 Money appears to have been  aware of the fact that Mr S had at least 13 
loans of this type in the months leading up to November 2017.
 
118 118 Money says having existing short-term credit commitments didnt make Mr S 
ineligible for his loan. Mr S was asked what the purpose of this loan was and he said that he 
was going to use the funds to consolidate  debts.  
Indeed this loan was flagged as a payday  rescue  loan and Mr S existing short-term lending  
commitments werent considered because it was reasonable to assume  that he wouldve 
used the funds obtained to settle  the most  expensive credit he had  the short-term loans on 
his credit file.
It says:
Payday rescue is all about helping customers get better value credit  on the basis  that they 
would cease to need payday  loans, hence we would expect to see this sort of behaviour  - 
our experience shows that such customers are less likely to default  on loans than average  
perhaps because  the repayments to us are less than they have become used to with payday  
loans companies.  
  
Ive carefully thought  about what 118 118 Money has said. But I have  to say that I have 
grave concerns with this approach for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, 118 118 Money  didnt actually take any steps to establish  which  debts, if any, Mr S 
would actually be consolidating  with this loan. So while the purpose of this loan was 
recorded as debt consolidation,  without knowing which, if any, debts Mr S would  be 
consolidating, 118 118 always ran the risk that no existing debts would be cleared and this 
loan would simply increase Mr S overall  indebtedness. And by failing to take account of 
Ref: DRN92523926which existing debts  would be consolidated, I have to question  how accurate any 
affordability assessment  going forward would be.
Secondly 118 118 Moneys  comments about  its experience showing that payday loan 
customers are less likely to default on loans appears  to suggest that its only concern  was 
whether it was likely  to receive  loan payments from a customer. As Ive explained earlier,  the 
rules, regulations and guidance in place all make it clear that a lender is required to do more 
than simply assess  its own credit  risk. It also needs to consider the impact of any lending  on 
the customer.
In my experience, payday loan customers are indeed more  likely to somehow make  their 
loan repayments.  But they often do so by unsustainably increasing their overall 
indebtedness by borrowing  from a number of different  sources including the lender 
concerned. So 118 118 Money  relying  on its experience  of payday loan customers being  
more likely to make their payments and less likely to default  as a factor in deciding  whether 
to provide a loan, doesnt inspire  confidence  in the robustness of its borrower focused 
affordability assessment.        
My final reason for concern here is that 118 118 Money appear to have disregarded the 
existing high-cost short term credit commitments that it was aware Mr S had. It has said that 
it didnt take Mr S existing  high-cost short term credit commitments  into account because  it 
was reasonable  to assume that hed used the funds being advanced to settle these loans.  It 
assumed this would  be the case because Mr S high-cost  short term loans were the most 
expensive credit Mr S had.
The first thing for me to say is that there  isnt anything  to suggest that Mr S intended  to 
consolidate his existing short term lending commitments with this loan. 118 118 Money  may 
have flagged the November 2017 loan as a payday rescue loan. But I dont think  that it and 
any reason to believe that the funds would be used  for this specific  purpose such  as a 
declaration from Mr S that this was going to be the case.  And for the reasons Ive explained  
above, this means  that 118 118 Money  ran the risk of increasing Mr S high-cost credit 
indebtedness by leaving him having to make payments to this loan as well as his existing 
ones.
Id also point out that I wouldve had concerns  with 118 118 Moneys overall argument even 
if I were to accept its points on why it disregarded Mr S existing high-cost short  term credit  
commitments. Firstly,  the amount of money it provided to Mr S for the November 2017  loan 
wasnt enough to clear all of Mr S existing  high-cost  short term credit commitments. So I 
cant see how it could possibly have  concluded that all of them would be settled.
Secondly, I also have  significant concerns with the idea that Mr S using the funds from 118 
118 Money to repay his existing high-cost short term credit commitments,  somehow  meant  
that he was being provided with better value credit. I say this because  CONC5A.3.2 limits 
the total amount a borrower  has to repay a high-cost short  term credit  provider  to no more  
than twice the amount they initially borrowed.  
So if I were to accept 118 118 Moneys  argument about the purpose of this loan, it will have 
effectively transitioned Mr S from a product where  the total amount he could pay (including 
late payment and default fees) was capped to twice the amount initially borrowed, to a 
product where  the amount he had to pay was uncapped. My own estimate  indicates  that    
Mr S had to pay around 1.5 times the amount of money received for the November  2017  
loan in interest (when the interest on the amount advanced to settle  the October 2016 loan is 
Ref: DRN92523927excluded). And even  then he didnt have enough funds to be able to clear all of his existing 
high-cost short term credit  commitments. 
Given the interest rate 118 118 Money charged on this loan and half of the total amount of 
credit was due to be repaid halfway into the term, there is an argument for saying that the 
November 2017  loan 118 118 Money  provided Mr S was itself high-cost short term credit. 
And it should be subject  to the cap in CONC5A.3.2 as a result. 
I suspect that 118 118 Moneys argument  against  this isnt that the credit it provided isnt 
high-cost but that it isnt short-term. And, in these  circumstances, if I accept that the 
November 2017  loan was to be used  to repay  Mr S high-cost short term credit 
commitments, 118 118 Money will have  transitioned  Mr S from high-cost short term credit to 
high-cost medium or long term credit. So given  the total amount Mr S was required to pay on 
the November  2017 loan and the circumstances, Im simply not persuaded by the argument 
that this loan represented better value credit  than what 118 118 Money was assuming would 
be repaid.
Indeed Id even go as far as saying  that it is arguable that providing  this type of credit in 
these particular circumstances  for this particular purpose is, in itself, unlikely to be fair. But 
this isnt a matter for me to decide  here, as Im required  to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case   not whether it would ever be fair for a lender to transition 
a customer from a loan where the total amount they could repay is capped to one which isnt 
and potentially could  cost them substantially more.
And I dont  think deciding this issue is crucial  to me deciding whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr S particular  case.  I say this because  the information  118 118 
Money obtained ought fairly and reasonably have alerted  it to the fact that Mr S was unlikely 
to be able to sustainably make his repayments  - irrespective of whether he intended to use 
the funds to repay his existing high-cost short term credit commitments.
           
As Ive previously explained, CONC 5.3.1(2) G requires a lender to take reasonable steps  to 
establish that a borrower will be able to sustainably make any repayments required by a 
credit agreement. CONC defines sustainable as without undue  difficulties and in particular
the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  And I think that the information                
118 118 Money gathered ought  fairly and reasonably to have alerted it to the fact that this is 
always what was likely  to happen  here.
To explain, 118 118 Money says the information  it gathered suggested that Mr S was 
required to pay £1000  to unsecured loans  and credit cards  and that he was overdrawn by 
almost £5000. 118 118 Money will also have  been aware of Mr S monthly  salary.  
So 118 118 Money ought to have been aware  that Mr S was unlikely to have reached a 
credit balance on his current account  even if a whole  months  salary  was added to the 
money he received  for the November 2017  loan. This doesnt  even take into account the 
payments due on the unsecured loans  and credit cards,  Mr S existing high-cost credit  
commitments and any other reasonable normal monthly living  expenses. 
Ref: DRN92523928As this was the case the information 118 118 Money  obtained  suggested that Mr S was 
always likely to remain substantially overdrawn during the period he was required to make  
repayments to this loan. Given just how overdrawn Mr S was likely to remain, 118 118 
Money ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Mr S was unlikely to be able to 
make his loan repayments while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having  
to borrowing  further.  And I think that the information 118 118 Money obtained  ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have  alerted it to the fact that Mr S would not be able to sustainably  make 
the repayments to the loan he was given in November 2017.    
So having  carefully considered everything  Ive seen on this case,  I think 118 118 Money  
failed to proportionally react to the information it was provided  with. This led to it unfairly and 
unreasonably providing Mr S with a loan he couldnt  have sustainably  repaid. And so        
118 118 Money unfairly and unreasonably provided  Mr S with an unsustainable loan.
Did 118 118 Money  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, other than by providing the 
loan, Ive not seen anything here that leads me to conclude  118 118 Money acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Mr S in some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
four of this decision, I think that 118 118 Money  unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr S 
with a  loan it ought  to have realised he was unlikely to have been able to sustainably make 
the payments  to. So 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided the November 2017  loan to   
Mr S. 
As Mr S ended up paying interest and charges on a loan he couldnt reasonably have been 
expected to sustainably repay, I think that he lost out because of what  118 118 Money did 
wrong. So 118 118 Money  should put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Ive carefully thought  about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean 118 118 
Money putting Mr S in the position hed now be in if he hadnt been given a loan in 
November 2017.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr S 
was given the loan in question and hes used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mr S back in the position  
he would  be in if he hadnt been  given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to fully explain 
the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for 118 118 Money to put things 
right in the following way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr S shouldnt have been given
Ref: DRN92523929As Ive explained, 118 118 Money ought to have realised that it was providing  Mr S with a 
loan that he was unlikely to be able to substantially repay.  And  in reality its the interest that 
Mr S had to pay 118 118 Money on the November  2017 loan that is the problem, as he kept 
having to find additional funds (usually  through borrowing elsewhere) to pay the interest  on 
his 118 118 Money  loan.  
Im also mindful that 118 118 Money  has already attempted to put things right for the 
October 2016 loan which  it accepts shouldnt have been provided to Mr S. So I think that the 
fairest way to ensure that Mr S is refunded any interest and charges that he may have paid 
on the November  2017 loan is to add the total amount of money he received as a result of 
being provided both of his loans (in other  words  £3200). 118 118 Money should then deduct  
any payments Mr S made  from this amount. 118 118 Money should treat any payments 
made after the payments Mr S made reach  a total of £3200 as overpayments.  And to start 
with, I think that 118 118 Money should  refund these overpayments as they will represent 
the interest Mr S paid as a result  of being given  his loans.
Ive also given thought to the argument that Mr S had to borrow  from elsewhere   in order  
to repay  the interest and charges he paid to 118 118 Money and so he should  be refunded 
any borrowing costs he incurred to pay 118 118 Moneys interest  and charges.
I accept that there were  occasions where  Mr S was simply cycling money around borrowing 
from multiple sources in order  to pay debts. For example, its clear that Mr S made a number 
of payments by using  his overdraft.  And, in circumstances, where it is clear that a consumer 
incurred additional  costs in order to be able to repay  a lenders interest and charges, it might 
be appropriate to direct a lender to pay the consumer extra compensation  to cover those 
additional costs.
But, in this case, Mr S was borrowing  from so many different sources. And I cant  see a clear 
correlation showing that funds from a particular source (or sources)  of credit directly went  
towards repaying 118 118 Moneys  interest and charges. In other words, I cant say exactly  
what directly additional  cost Mr S incurred  at a given time.  So, in these circumstances, 
I dont think that 118 118 Money  should refund extra interest because  Mr S mightve paid 
interest elsewhere in order to repay  his 118 118 Money loans.
That said,  its clear that Mr S did lose the use of the funds he used to pay the interest, I now 
think that 118 118 Money needs to refund to him. As Mr S lost the use of these funds, I think  
that he should be compensated for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid 
(in other words any overpayments over and above  the amount of money Mr S received), is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN925239210Mr S credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.  As the 
monetary award Im making reflects this, I see no reason to depart  from our typical approach 
in this case. So I think that 118 118 Money  should remove any adverse information recorded  
on Mr S credit file as a result of these loans.  
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of Mr S 
complaint for 118 118 Money to put things  right in the following way:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having  been given his 
loans. The loan payments Mr S made  should be deducted from this amount. Any 
payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount of money Mr S was given 
should be treated  as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr S credit file as a result  of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to take off tax from this interest.  118 118 
Money must  give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr S complaint. Madison CF UK Limited  
(trading as 118 118 Money) should  pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9252392