K822xcomplaint
Mrs T is unhappy  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  converted  her euros into pounds 
during a transfer to another euro account, resulting in a loss of over £3,000.  
background 
In May 2019, Mrs T asked Barclays to transfer  €100,000 from her account with it to another  
euro account with an alternative provider. But the amount was converted  into pounds before 
being converted back into euros,  resulting in a loss of around £3,100 or €3,400.
Barclays recognised  it had made an error  here so it issued her with a refund  of €3,400, 
which was paid into the account  the rest of the money had been transferred into.
Mrs T said the matter caused  her huge distress. She believes the member of staff who made 
the error  did it on purpose and she said she was lied to by staff at the bank about the 
availability of a manager. Mrs T thinks the member of staff should be dismissed  and she also 
asked for compensation which she felt should  be paid by the staff members involved. 
The investigator felt that Barclays  was right to refund the money that had been lost in the 
conversion. But he also spoke to it about  the distress the situation had caused,  and it offered 
to pay compensation  of £100. He felt that this was a fair amount. He thought  it likely that the 
issue had arisen  as a result of human error.  
Mrs T disagreed. She feels strongly that the staff members involved should be dismissed 
because of their dishonesty, harassment and because of bodily injury caused to her, as well 
as the way shes been spoken to.
So the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, I dont uphold her complaint 
against Barclays  Ill explain why.
Its important for me to point out that my role isnt to punish businesses,  let alone individual  
employees (for whom an employer bears legal responsibility). Its not for me to say whether,  
and how, Barclays should reprimand staff for errors.  And I have no power to order  that an 
employee should be dismissed  or that compensation should be paid for by them  personally.  
Under well-established principles, an employer normally  pays for the careless  mistakes  of its 
employees. Its then up to the employer to decide what, if any, disciplinary action  to take 
against the employee having regard to respective rights and responsibilities under 
employment law.   
Barclays has admitted it made  an error during the transfer. And it has compensated Mrs T 
for this by refunding the full amount that was lost due to the error. I can see it did this around 
a week afterwards. So I cant see that shes lost out financially as a result  of this situation.
Ref: DRN99352342Mrs T told us about the impact this situation  has had on her. And I can see why it wouldve 
been distressing,  given  that its a large sum of money to have seemingly  lost. For this 
reason, I conclude that its fair that Barclays compensate her for this error. But in deciding  a 
fair amount here, I need to bear in mind that the matter was fully rectified  quickly,  which  
ought reasonably  to have minimised the distress  or inconvenience.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the member of staff completed the transfer  
incorrectly on purpose, and I simply cant see a logical  reason why they wouldve done so. 
And theres  no independent  medical  evidence  to show that Barclays  was responsible for the 
bodily injury Mrs T says she suffered as a result  of the situation. So I think  its more likely  
than not that the conversion  to pounds was a genuine error, for which £100 is adequate 
compensation. 
Ive also thought about Mrs Ts allegations about  staff members intentionally lying to her, 
harassing her and, more  generally, dealing with her inappropriately. But these are quite 
serious allegations for which  I simply havent  been  given  sufficient  information  to safely  
conclude that Barclays did something  wrong here.  So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask it to pay more than its already offered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should pay 
Mrs T £100 for her distress and inconvenience.  Payment  is to be made within 28 days  of 
receiving notification from us of Mrs Ts acceptance of this decision, failing which interest  will 
accrue thereafter on the amount payable  at the simple rate of 8% a year until the date of 
settlement (less any tax that may lawfully be deductible). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935234