K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) refused to deal with a claim 
for contents  damaged by its agents  after returning  them following a flood claim under his 
home insurance. 
background
Mr B had made a claim to RSA for flood damage to his property. In October  2016  RSA made 
an offer of settlement in respect of the damaged  contents  that Mr B accepted. The contents 
which had been  in storage were returned  to him by the restoration  company appointed by 
RSA. But Mr B was unhappy that some of the items were  damaged  and some were  missing. 
Mr B contacted RSA and the restoration  company,  The company itself has closed down and 
no further details  can be obtained from it. RSA repeatedly told Mr B that it was a matter for 
the restoration companys public liability insurers (L). In its final response it advised Mr B 
that, as he hadnt  raised the matter  with the restoration company within 14 days  of receiving 
the contents back, it could help no further. It did however approach L to see if it would 
consider the claim.
L did so, and reviewed the missing/damaged items,  It made an overall offer to Mr B but he 
was dissatisfied  with it. Some of the items  were  heavily discounted for wear and tear. For 
some other items he was referred back to RSA as they were deemed  to be (possibly)  flood 
damaged. And other items he didnt agree the figure offered, or the indemnity offered wasnt  
sufficient or not offered  at all. L offered Mr B a total of £6,000, which  I believe he turned 
down. 
On referral to this service,  our adjudicator said there  was evidence  to show that Mr B did 
contact both RSA and the restoration company within 14 days. She proposed  that RSA 
appoint another  restoration company to review the missing or damaged items and then 
assist Mr B with his claim with L.
RSA said it had no restoration company in Mr Bs area. It suggested that Mr B provide a 
clear and detailed  list of any damaged or missing  items along with an independent report  to 
support the settlement.
Mr B said RSA should just pay for the missing/damaged items according to the terms of his 
policy. He said he had already provided detailed lists to both RSA and the restoration 
company. He has shown  us correspondence  between him and L, setting out what they were  
prepared to pay for and his objections to or acceptance of offers  in respect  of the various  
items.
I issued a provisional decision. In light of the fact that RSA wasnt  able to appoint another  
restoration company.  I made various  directions  concerning  the items to be paid for and/or to 
be reconsidered.
Mr B accepted my decision. And RSA has said it has no further  comments  to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96206112I made  the following provisional  findings:  
reporting the damage
There is evidence that Mr B emailed both RSA and the restoration company  within  14 days 
to advise that there were items missing and/or damaged. It took a while for him to draw up 
the necessary  lists but I think RSA was wrong  to refuse its co-operation  because  of this 
issue. As the restoration company was its appointed  agent,  RSA was ultimately responsible 
for companys actions.
damaged/missing items
Mr B has had his claim considered by L. Its final offer to him was £6,000.  Some  of the 
figures for some items he accepted. And there  was a deduction  for wear and tear for some 
items. Im not surprised  about that  the restoration company would only be liable to pay the 
actual value of missing or damaged items  it had no obligation itself to pay on a new for old 
basis. If Mr B wants to accept the offer from L, without  prejudice to his right to claim any 
shortfall from RSA, that is a matter for him.
I dont think its practical  to require RSA to appoint another restoration company, given its 
marked reluctance to become involved.  But I also think its not fair to expect Mr B to obtain  
an independent report to show the cost of restoring or replacing the missing items.  There  is 
a clear shortfall between  what  L has offered  and what the actual loss to Mr B is. I also dont 
think its fair to Mr B to have a deduction  for wear and tear so I think RSA should  firstly pay 
the wear and tear element of the damaged  items, where this has been deducted. This 
applies to the following  items on the lists exchanged  between Mr B and L:
missing items list:
1 Afghan carpet, 2 Sofa Bed 3,4,5,6,7  Various power  tools 8 Moroccan Rugs  11 African 
Mask.
In addition Mr B says the items were  also undervalued. He should be prepared to produce 
evidence of their actual value. Then RSA should consider payment of the amount  over and 
above that offered by L and the actual value,  as determined by Mr Bs evidence.
The following  items were  rejected  by L:
damaged items list:
1 Table  -  Mr B was offered £300  but claims the table was much more  extensively damaged. 
RSA should pay the difference between that offer and the value to repair  or replace as put 
forward by Mr B, or carry out an inspection to determine the value, and in that event, 
consider a further payment.
For the following  items on the damaged  list, and two items Mr B says werent considered by 
L for which no indemnity  has been  offered, RSA should either pay Mr Bs assessed cost of 
restoring them or carry out an inspection to determine the cost of restoration.  And in that 
event, it should  consider  a further  payment:
6 French sculpture, 8 Georgian chair, 17 Architects table. And the two items not considered 
by L: Antique Afghan  cupboard and Metal legged table.
Ref: DRN96206113RSA should also pay Mr Bs valuation of the following items, for which delivery was refused 
due to extensive damage, the items  were  never  returned:
damaged items list : 4 and 5 brass  trays.
The following  items should be reconsidered  by RSA as being  flood damaged,  in accordance  
with the terms of the policy,  if not already paid for in the settlement. 
:
damaged items list:
2 Folding table,  3 Egg chair  12 Curtains 13 Clothes (not numbered
I dont propose to require  RSA to pay anything for the following items:
damaged items list: 
7 Printing table   already disposed of
9 Wooden bookshelf 10 Georgian style mantelpiece  11 Rocking potty trainer  15 clothes rack 
16 Goose lamp 18 Rocking Cradle  settlement  already  agreed  with L.
14 pot stand  just a missing screw  which I think could be replaced at minimal cost.
missing items list:
9 ceramic basin, 10 salmon  poacher, 12 bamboo bowl,  13 computer accessories, 14 wicker 
lamp shades, 15 tub chair, 16 snooker  table,  17 art projector  settlement already agreed 
with L.
compensation
As Ive said RSA has been uncooperative  in helping Mr B resolve the damaged or missing  
items for which it was ultimately responsible, For the distress  and inconvenience caused to 
Mr B, RSA should pay compensation of £100.
overall
RSA should pay the difference between Ls offer in respect of the items that were damaged 
or lost by the restoration company, and Mr Bs valuation for repairing or replacing them.  If it 
disputes the costs,  as Ive set out above  it will have to carry out an inspection of the 
damaged items where appropriate  to determine what  it should  pay. If that happens and there 
is a dispute over the costs, then Mr B will be free to refer that back  to this service. 
As neither party has any further comments to make, my provisional findings as set out above 
are now final,  and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
pay the wear and tear element of the items  listed above.
consider payment of any difference between the amounts offered by L and the actual 
value of said items, subject to Mr B producing evidence of this.
Ref: DRN96206114for the table, pay the difference between £300 and the value put forward  by Mr B, or 
carry out an inspection  to determine  the value, and in that event, consider a further 
payment.
for the other damaged  items  for which no indemnity has been offered,  pay Mr Bs 
assessed cost of restoring them or carry out an inspection to determine the cost of 
restoration, and in that event, consider a further  payment.
pay Mr Bs valuation  of the brass  trays.
in respect of the items  Ive identified as flood damaged, as set out above,  reconsider 
those items in accordance with the terms of the policy by either paying Mr Bs assessed 
cost of restoring them  or by carrying  out an inspection to determine  the cost of 
restoration or replacement, and in that event,  consider a further payment.
pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9620611