K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC sent him a temporary  security  number for 
his account when he hadnt  requested one.
background
In August  2018,  Mr D received a text message from Tesco with a Temporary  Security 
Number (TSN).  As he hadnt requested one, he contacted Tesco  to find out why he had 
received it. The call handler said there had been  no security breach on Mr Ds account  but 
couldnt explain why the TSN had been  sent.
 
Mr D raised a complaint  with Tesco. Tesco  said that, as Mr Ds mobile  number isnt 
associated with any other account, they assume  the TSN was sent out by mistake,  due to a 
keying error. By this they mean that Mr Ds mobile number was wrongly input due to 
human error and the message wasnt meant for him. They  confirmed that they have no 
security concerns about Mr Ds account.  They apologised and credited his account  with £40 
as compensation  for the distress caused. They also raised an incident with their IT team  to 
investigate what had happened.
But Mr D wasnt  reassured by Tescos  response and felt they hadnt carried out a thorough  
enough investigation. So he brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  thought 
Tesco had dealt  with the issue fairly and that their offer of £40 was fair. But Mr D remains 
unhappy and says Tesco havent provided any evidence to support their explanation of why 
the TSN was sent to him. He asked  for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised  a number of points about  how Tesco have dealt  with this situation. As well 
as reviewing all the information which the parties  have provided, Ive listened to the calls Mr 
D had with Tesco. So Im fully aware  of all the issues in this case. But Ill focus on what I 
think are the main issues here, surrounding the sending of the TSN and Tescos explanation  
for that.
Tesco say theres  no record  of the TSN on Mr Ds account. And they cant  find his phone 
number linked to any other account  on their systems. So they cant  say which  customers 
account the TSN was generated  from. Without this, its very difficult to say exactly what  
happened. So I need to look at what both Tesco and Mr D have said and decide  what I think  
is most  likely  to have happened here, in light of the evidence that is available and the 
surrounding circumstances.
Tesco have  explained that each customer has a security  number  which they use to access 
online and telephone banking. They say that if the customer forgets the number, or enters it 
incorrectly too many times,  the number needs  to be reset. Tesco do this by sending a TSN 
to the customer.  The other scenario in which Tesco say they would send a TSN is as part of 
the application process when theyre initially verifying a customers  contact details. The 
customers account cant be accessed without the TSN in any of these scenarios. As none of 
these apply in Mr Ds case, the question  here is why a TSN was sent to his phone.
 
Ref: DRN97585582Tesco say its reasonable to assume that Mr Ds phone number was typed by mistake  by 
someone requesting  a TSN on a different account.  In that scenario,  that customer would 
have been waiting for a TSN. But if their phone number had been input incorrectly  (either  by 
the customer themselves  or by someone at Tesco), the TSN would  be sent to that (wrong) 
number. So, when no TSN arrived, its likely that customer would have contacted  Tesco and 
at that point the problem would have been  discovered and corrected. Tesco  say that would 
explain why they arent  now able to find any other  accounts showing Mr Ds phone  number. I 
think thats a plausible explanation. It also ties in with the fact that Mr D hasnt received any 
more TSNs to date.
Its not uncommon for businesses to have this type of temporary security arrangement in 
place. What is perhaps less common is for a wrong  phone number entered by one person to 
be the actual phone  number of another customer  of the same business. If that is what  
happened, its unfortunate for Mr D that the number input  by the third party was his phone  
number. But even though thats  an unfortunate coincidence, I still find it to be a plausible  
explanation.
I realise this isnt the definitive answer to what happened here and Mr Ds frustration  is 
largely to do with the uncertainty. Without any record of Mr Ds phone number (other than on 
his own account) on Tescos systems, its unlikely that Tesco  will be able to give a definitive 
answer. But the explanation they have put forward is a reasonable one which ties in with the 
online security process  which they have  described.
Mr D is concerned this could happen  again  and says his account security  could have been 
breached. But Tesco have confirmed his account wasnt compromised. They  say they cant 
stop instances of human error, but they have confirmed that Mr Ds phone  number isnt 
stored against any other account. So the risk of this happening  again must be very small. 
Its difficult to see how Mr Ds account would  be compromised in any event. If a third party 
trying to access their own account  mistakenly input Mr Ds number,  they wouldnt receive the 
TSN they need but that wouldnt affect Mr Ds account. And if someone was trying  to gain 
access to Mr Ds account, the TSN they need  would be sent to Mr D so his account  security 
wouldnt be breached.
As Tesco say they dont  have the information  which confirms  exactly  what happened, I cant  
direct them to provide  it. But they have told Mr D that if anything  else comes  to light from 
their IT investigation, theyll let him know. I think thats reasonable. And I think  the £40 which  
they have paid to him is fair, so Im not going  to ask them to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9758558