K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way that Allianz  Insurance Plc has dealt with his home insurance 
claim for water damage to his property 
background
In November 2017 Mr C had a burst stopcock in his kitchen which flooded the kitchen, utility 
room and parts of the ground floor. Allianz  sent out a loss adjuster who inspected  the 
damage and agreed the property was uninhabitable. Mr C expected  Allianz to arrange  
alternative accommodation but the loss adjuster was under the impression that Mr C was 
arranging this himself.  Mr C moved  his family to live elsewhere and expected  to hear back 
from the loss adjuster.  He didnt hear back but contacted the loss adjusters and he arranged 
for the property to be stripped out. Allianz paid his costs for this and also for the removal  of 
contents. It agreed to pay £15 per day disturbance allowance for Mr C and his wife.
Mr C wanted to use his own contractor. Allianz  sent out a surveyor to agree a scope of 
works. Mr C had his own scope drawn up, and there was a considerable disparity between 
the two. As far as I can see this is due to a dispute over the quality of the flooring but may 
also be because of the difference in Allianzs contractors and Mr Cs contractors'  rates.  
There was a dispute over the contents. The loss adjuster said that the water didnt rise much  
over the floor level so any contents/appliances above that werent damaged.  This included  
integrated appliances. Mr C said the loss adjuster had told him he could dispose of all the 
appliances. But its not clear whether he did say that. Allianz  made an offer in respect of the 
buildings which was about a third of the amount Mr C had estimated for. It wasnt willing  to 
pay for the appliances  as it said they werent  damaged.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said Allianz should pay the amount  it had offered 
but if Mr C didnt accept  this it should arrange to carry out the work itself, and it should  pay 
£15 per day per person  allowance  until he could move back  in. He thought the handling of 
the claim had been poor and that it should  pay £750 compensation for this.
There have been  developments  since then. Mr C has appointed a loss assessor. Allianz  has 
offered £10,000  for the contents against  Mr Cs estimate of £13,800. Allianzs  final offer for 
the buildings  is £32.777.42  plus VAT where applicable for the buildings  against  Mr Cs 
estimate which was much  higher. It had offered to pay a disturbance allowance  to Mr C and 
his wife of £15 per person per day for six months.
Mr C pointed out that he is still out of the property  and that it has been stripped out so is still 
uninhabitable. So six months disturbance allowance isnt sufficient and this doesnt  cover his 
travel expenses of a 100 mile round trip per day. Hes unwilling for Allianz to use its 
contractors and has pointed out that Allianz allowed him to strip out the property and remove  
the contents. He says that the water sprayed all over the area from the stopcock and 
damaged items throughout the ground  floor like curtains and a number of shirts  he had 
hanging up. He believes Allianzs  estimate  for the flooring  is based  on some unclear  photos 
from its loss adjuster. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that it was reasonable for Mr C to use his own 
contractors and that Allianz should  pay for the repairs on the basis  of Mr Cs contractors 
rates, and add the cost of the integrated dishwasher  and pay 50% contribution towards the 
heating costs. Allianz should continue  to pay the disturbance  allowance until Mr C is able to 
Ref: DRN90181132move back  into the property. I said it should  also pay £10,000 for the contents  plus the cost 
of the freezer.
Allianz agreed with the suggested £1,000 compensation , 50% contribution towards  the 
heating costs and to continuing to pay the disturbance allowance  and travel  expenses,  
subject to details  of the expenditure and days travelled. It stuck by its view that its settlement 
was reasonable.  It said it  couldnt calculate  the cost of the work on the basis of Mr Cs 
contractors rates, as the costs are priced differently. It pointed out however that the freezer 
hadnt been included in any previous lists submitted by Mr C. It had agreed the cost of a 
fridge freezer.
Mr C essentially  agreed with my proposed findings. I shall set out his responses in my 
findings below.  He pointed out that there was no fridge freezer,  just a larder fridge  in the 
kitchen and a freezer in the utility  room.
I advised Allianz that as I couldnt  see any evidence that Mr C was asking for more than he 
was entitled to, that my final decision was likely to be that Allianz should pay the amounts  
requested by Mr C as set out in a schedule  shared  with it, as well as the other expenses and 
compensation, which I believed were  agreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
handling of the claim
I dont think this claim was handled very well, particularly in the early  stages.  The loss 
adjuster deemed  the house  to be uninhabitable, but left it to Mr C to arrange  alternative 
accommodation himself.  It would be normal to at least  offer help in finding this, since  it is 
covered under the policy. The loss adjuster then didnt go back  to Mr C to tell him how the 
claim would progress, and didnt contact him again leaving him to have to sort out the strip 
out and removal  of his contents himself.
Mr C stayed in a hotel  initially  then stayed with relatives  he had to chase for payment of 
the invoices. Further, he sent quotations to the loss adjuster who failed to progress  them. It 
wasnt until five months  after the incident  that Allianz sent out a surveyor  to draw up a scope 
of works. The property had been stripped out by then. Also when  Mr C tried to contact 
Allianz to find out about progress he was referred back  to the loss adjuster to be told he was 
on holiday. The claim seemed to be passed  from one person to another  without anyone  
taking responsibility.
The way the claim  was handled in the early stages is in marked contrast to the way I would 
normally expect, especially when its clear  the policyholder is out of his home.  As matters  
have gone on, Mr C would now prefer to use his own contractor. But the problem with 
leaving the matter  for so long is that it has caused later difficulties with agreeing  payments. I 
think Mr C was caused considerable inconvenience and upset and would propose that 
Allianz pay him £1,000 to compensate for that.
Ref: DRN90181133alternative accommodation
If any hotel bills are still outstanding, Allianz  should pay these  forthwith. For the time Mr C 
and his wife were living out of the property  Allianz has offered  them  six months disturbance  
allowance at £15 per person per day. It doesnt  have to pay this for the period  Mr C was in 
hotels, but the offer doesnt cover the whole period hes been out of the property. I think  it 
should keep paying the disturbance allowance  until the property is repaired and habitable 
again. I think, once the repairs are agreed  this would leave up to two months to book the 
contractor. But the parties  will have to tell me how long the repairs are expected to last.
Mr C says the payment  doesnt cover his travel  expenses. Allianz  says its intended to 
include those. The normal disturbance allowance is £10 per person per day, so it is an 
enhanced allowance. But Im not convinced that would cover his travel, if it is a 100 mile 
round trip. Mr C should submit details of his fuel expenditure. And Allianz should pay that 
again for the period  Mr C was out of the property. Mr C should supply a detailed  list of the 
number of days travel per week and I will consider that when making my final decision.
Neither party disputes what Ive said here. Allianz  should pay the allowance for up to two 
months before the repairs commence and then for a reasonable period (I believe this to be 
about three months but this remains to be agreed)  to allow  for the repairs  to take place. Mr C 
should supply  full details of his travel cots to Allianz, including  any receipts.
building costs
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C has told us he doesnt want to use Allianzs  contractors.  I think,  bearing  in mind that he 
was left to his own devices after he made the claim, that it is reasonable to allow  him to use 
his own contractors. 
There is the problem  of the great  disparity  between the estimated costs. As far as I know  the 
parties have agreed  on the actual scope of works.  The difference  appears  to be the quality 
of materials and (possibly)  differing contractors rates. Regrettably its not possible for me to 
say now what quality  flooring Mr C had in place.  It appears that the loss adjuster made a 
detailed inspection on his visit shortly after the claim was reported, and took a number of 
photographs. I think it would be reasonable for Allianz to assess it on the basis of those 
photos and the loss adjusters report.
But I think Allianz should pay for the repairs on the basis of Mr Cs contractors rates.  It 
should therefore calculate its scope  based on those rates and pay a settlement to Mr C 
accordingly.
Allianz has so far refused  to pay for integrated appliances on the basis that it doesnt 
consider that they were damaged. But its accepted that those appliances which were on the 
floor would have  been  damaged, such as the washing machine and tumble  dryer.  It seems 
to me that it should also at least pay for the dishwasher, it may have been integrated but it 
was at floor level.
Allianz has accepted  that the dishwasher  needs to be replaced. It says it cant  calculate the 
costs using Mr Cs contractors rates as they are set out on a different basis  to its surveyors 
costing,
Ref: DRN90181134As Allianz  hasnt been able to price  its schedules based on Mr Cs contractors rates. I think  
Allianz should pay what Mr Cs contractor proposes to charge. There  is some dispute about  
the extent of the damage, particularly to higher parts of the kitchen. But Mr C says the entire 
kitchen was damaged  if not in the initial flood, then from being left damp  for a time before 
stripping and drying began. And he says Allianzs  surveyor worked from a wrong plan which  
underestimated the square meterage of the downstairs  area. As I understand it the quality of 
the flooring is no longer in dispute. 
I think that , as Allianz didnt step in to help with drying out and stripping out the property and 
as theres no evidence that Mr C is asking for higher quality  items/materials than were there 
before, it should pay the amounts Mr C has asked  for, in accordance with his contractors  
schedule. The list has already been sent to Allianz,  but I shall set out here Mr Cs figures:
KITCHEN £ (inclusive 
of VAT)
Kitchen and Worktop (including Refitting  Dishwasher  etc. and standard  
worktop)27,070.00
Floor 2,550.00
External Back Door  (from Kitchen to outside) strip and replace. 750.00
HALLWAY
Bespoke Arched  Door  from kitchen* 4,308.00
Bespoke Arched  Door  from office*  4,308.00
OFFICE
Floor 1,350.00
LOUNGE 2
Floor 2,850.00
LOUNGE 1
Floor 1,504.00
Cost of Doors (5 Doors  Insurance) fitting and cost of door frames,  stops  
and cost of doors (solid  oak) 
And to include cost of WC door5,200.80
Total 49,890.90
*Mr C says these two doors are the same type and both need replacing.  Allianz  was only 
prepared to pay for a proportion  of the cost of the office door.  But I think, as both need 
replacing and as they are the same, Allianz  should pay the costs of both, as set out by 
Mr Cs contractor.
Mr Cs figures  include  VAT. And I understand that he would like a full payment up front so he 
doesnt have to go back to Allianz  for further  funds. I appreciate his desire to have the full 
payment. Allianz  can come to an agreement to pay that full amount but I cant reasonably 
require it to pay VAT unless it has a VAT receipt.  
Ref: DRN90181135contents
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C disposed of the damaged contents without  Allianz being  able to inspect them.  It has 
offered £10,000  in payment against  a figure of just over £13,800  Mr C has asked  for. But 
that figure would seem  to me to include items  which are unlikely to have been damaged in 
the initial flooding,  like 40 shirts, which could have been laundered. On the basis that the 
electrical appliances at ground level were damaged, it seems to me that Allianz should pay 
for the freezer (which  wasnt  integrated so is a contents item), on top of the £10,000.
I think, having considered the contents  lists, that Allianzs offer is reasonable here.  I note that 
it mentioned the dishwasher in response, but being  integrated, that is included in the figure 
for building  costs, as is the larder fridge.  Ive noted that Allianz  agreed  a figure for a fridge 
freezer in its offer for the contents which I understand is in fact just a freezer,  so no separate 
payment is appropriate  for that. 
heating/telephone costs
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr C has submitted a bill for the heating costs  in drying out the property. I believe this is 
central heating rather  than any industrial drying.  The invoices total £1,798.  I appreciate that 
Mr C wasnt in the property for the time of these bills. But Allianz would only be expected  to 
pay bills in excess of normal heating bills. I think it should pay half of these bills - £899.
For the broadband/phone line, unless Mr C has incurred the cost of this elsewhere also,  I 
wouldnt expect Allianz to pay this.
Allianz has agreed to pay for half the heating  costs  I think  thats reasonable. Otherwise I 
will make no further comment.
overall
Save for where Ive commented further above my provisional findings  as set out above are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN90181136my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Allianz  Insurance Plc to:
pay Mr C £1,000  compensation.
if it hasnt done  so already, pay Mr Cs outstanding hotel costs and pay him a 
disturbance allowance calculated at £15 per person per day for the period he and his 
wife have been out of the property  (excluding  any time spent in a hotel) up until the 
estimated date of completion of the property repairs.
on receipt of full details of the expenditure from Mr C, pay his travel  expenses for the 
same period.
pay to Mr C his building  costs  on the basis of his contractors rates in accordance with 
the figures set out above to him by way of settlement. Any VAT payment should  be paid 
on production of a VAT receipt  by Mr C, or earlier by agreement.
pay to Mr C £10,000 for the contents.
pay £899 towards Mr Cs heating costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9018113