K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim 
under her gadget insurance  policy for the loss of her earphones.
background
Mrs B has gadget insurance - underwritten by Assurant - included  as a benefit on her bank 
account with a high street bank. She lost her Bluetooth earphones and made a claim on the 
policy. Assurant rejected the claim,  saying that earphones werent gadgets  so there  was no 
cover for them under  the policy.  Because of this it didnt consider  the claim against  the 
remaining terms and conditions.
Mrs B didnt agree with this so she complained. Assurant maintained its position  so Mrs B 
brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said she thought these earphones met the 
definition of a gadget  under the policy terms and conditions and she thought  the claim had 
been unfairly declined. But Assurant didnt  agree  and asked an ombudsman  to make a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain my reasoning.
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage  or loss. But, when an insurer wants  to 
apply an exclusion or say a condition has not been  met and so decline a claim, the onus is 
on it to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion  or condition applies.
Assurants argument  is based on what it says the intention of the policy wording  is and its 
relied on this to decline the claim.  But I think this is quite distinct  from what the policy 
wording actually says  so Ive looked  into the policy wording to see how it applies to this 
claim.
The policy wording defines a gadget as 
A gadget is a portable electronic device  that contains its own power  source (for 
example battery  or solar  power) whose  main function is designed to support  
multimedia applications  or obtaining  multimedia content (for example any of the 
following  running  apps from an app store, playing music, taking pictures  and/or 
video, recording data,  use of GPS etc with the exception of drones)
I think its reasonable to consider these earphones meet  this definition. Theyre  a portable 
electronic device, have  their own power  source in the form of a battery and are designed to 
support multimedia applications - listening to content  such  as music via a multimedia 
application. This is also how Mrs B says she interpreted the terms and conditions.
Assurant said that these earphones have to be used in conjunction with mobile phones or 
tablet computers and because of this it classes them as an accessory  and not a gadget. It 
Ref: DRN93659902also said that they cant be used on their own without a portable device. But these additional  
requirements arent detailed in the policy terms, accessory isnt defined and Assurant 
hasnt provided  anything to show they were made clear  to Mrs B separately.  So this may 
have been Assurants intention but Im not satisfied its what  the policy  actually says.  
The policy contains  an exclusion that states  that items that arent gadgets  wont  be covered. 
It provides the following  definition  of what isnt a gadget:
If your item is required to be plugged into the mains electrical  supply, or another  
item continuously in order  for it to operate then these  items are NOT covered
Assurant says that technological advancements mean that accessories no longer have to be 
plugged in to their host. It says that because  the earphones need  to be continuously  
connected to a host via Bluetooth or Wi-Fi  to operate, they fall under the definition  of what 
isnt a gadget and cover is therefore excluded.
That may be Assurants  intention but Im not satisfied thats  what  the policy  actually says. In 
this case, these earphones dont need to be plugged into the mains supply or other item 
continuously to operate.  I agree they need  to be charged from the mains  and therefore have 
to be plugged  in some  of the time. And they have to be connected via Bluetooth to be used 
but I dont agree that they have to be plugged  into either continuously. So Im not satisfied 
they fall under this exclusion as defined in the policy.
Overall, Im not persuaded by Assurants arguments  that these earphones arent a gadget. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to say that 
Mrs Bs earphones meet the requirements  of a gadget as defined by Assurants policy  terms 
and therefore  dont fall under the exclusion.  
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont think Assurant  acted fairly when it relied on the 
exclusion. I will therefore be instructing it to reconsider Mrs Bs claim without applying this 
particular exclusion while considering Mrs Bs earphones as a gadget under the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Assurant General Insurance  
Limited to reconsider  Mrs Bs claim without applying  this particular  exclusion  while  
considering Mrs Bs earphones as a gadget  under the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9365990