K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the credit  card online in September 
2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt know that PPI had been added to the credit card account.  But Im not 
persuaded that Mr H has any clear  recollection of the sale,  which  is not surprising given how 
long ago it took place. I say this because Mr H has said the sale was made during a 
meeting, when in fact the application was made  online.
Looking at the credit agreement, it provides a summary of the information Mr H provided 
online during the application process.  It notes  that he has requested PPI. Furthermore there  
is a separate section  at the bottom  of the form where Mr H has to again confirm whether  or 
not he wants the policy. There is a cross in the box next to the statement I wish to purchase 
Credit Card  Repayments Cover.  Mr H has then signed  in that section to agree to the PPI (as 
well as signing separately for the credit card itself).
From the available evidence, I think that the PPI was presented as optional. It seems  to me 
that Mr H decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers  
doing so.
BoS didnt advise Mr H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. But 
it did need to provide  him with enough  information so he could make an informed choice 
about whether  or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H has told us he would have received at least six months full sick pay from his job. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr H 
would have received full pay for. Mr H says he had some savings, but having  the policy 
would have allowed  him to retain these or use them to cover other household bills at what 
would have been a difficult time. He has mentioned that family  could  have helped,  but other 
people cant always be relied  upon as their circumstances can change.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But M H wasnt affected by any of those  things. 
Ref: DRN98904232As I think  that Mr H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  him to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr H paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9890423