K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)  gave him when 
inspecting and replacing his boiler.
Mr B made a claim under  a Homeserve  policy, for which  Aviva  is the insurer.  This means it is 
the party that makes  decisions  about  whether a claim is settled or not. So to keep things 
simple, throughout  this decision  I will refer to Aviva only.
background
In January 2019 Mr B contacted Aviva as his home  was without hot water and heating. Aviva 
sent an engineer  who assessed  the boiler and found it was beyond economical repair (BER). 
Aviva said it would provide a replacement boiler  under  the policy, but Mr B would need to 
pay for the installation cost.
Aviva provided Mr B with a quote  for a new boiler and he accepted  this. This was installed 
several days later. But shortly after the installation Mr B contacted Aviva to say there was an 
electrical fault with it. Aviva re-attended the property and resolved  this the day after. 
Mr B says he had to make a number of calls to have this issue resolved. And during this 
period his son and other family  members  became ill due to the conditions.  Mr B asked Aviva  
to waive  any remaining balance owed to recognise  the distress it had caused.  
Aviva apologised for the delay in getting  the boiler working and said it hadnt  provided 
service to the standard it would  expect.  It said its mistake caused  a lack of central heating 
and hot water for the home for three  days. So it offered £150 to Mr B to recognise this. Mr B 
also said an extractor fan was broken by Aviva  during a visit. Aviva considered this, offered 
to review it, and said it would fix this if it was clear it was responsible for the damage.
 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service  and one of our investigators looked  into what 
happened. She didnt  uphold the complaint, saying that the issue with the boiler was rectified 
within a few days. So she felt Avivas offer of £150 was fair in the circumstances.  Mr B 
disagreed and said the works werent  resolved  until a few weeks  later.  Aviva said other 
works to the home were  carried out around this time, but these were in relation to an 
unconnected water cylinder problem.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint but didnt change her mind.  She said any 
complaint about  the water  cylinder would need  to be considered separately.  She also 
highlighted that Aviva had provided temporary heaters to minimise the impact of the boiler  
not functioning. And the investigator said while there  was no clear cause of damage  to the 
extractor fan, Aviva had acted fairly  by saying it would reassess it.
Mr B still didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN91485732Mr Bs policy  insures him for certain emergencies and domestic incidents such  as a 
breakdown of central heating or issues with plumbing or drainage.  In this case Aviva  
accepted the claim he made for his boiler. And theres no dispute that this needed to be 
replaced. So I dont  need to consider these  points any further.
Mr B has instead complained about  the quality of the workmanship during the installation of 
his boiler. Specifically Mr B is unhappy  because only three days after it was installed an 
engineer needed to revisit the property to get it working again.
As Aviva has said, its clear its engineer made a mistake. So Ive thought about whats 
happened and whether  its done  enough  to put things right. Aviva provided Mr B with two 
temporary heaters  when  it discovered his central heating wasnt  working  this isnt an 
unusual step for an insurer  to take in this situation.  And while I dont doubt Mr Bs home  was 
not as warm as it wouldve been had his boiler been working, Im satisfied  these two heaters 
wouldve helped reduce the impact  of the cold within  his home.
I can appreciate Mr B found this experience frustrating. But once  Aviva  was notified of the 
issue it resolved it within  a relatively short  period of time. So taking this into account, Im 
satisfied its apology and offer of £150  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In relation to the extractor fan, Aviva has said it will investigate  the damage  and cover  it if its 
clear its own engineers caused  it. From what Ive seen, this decision hasnt yet been made. 
So I dont  think it would  be helpful  to comment on the outcome of this at this time. But Im 
satisfied Aviva has acted fairly  by agreeing  to this course of action.  And Id expect  it to 
undertake this inspection and give Mr B an answer within  a reasonable timescale  if it hasnt 
done this already.
Mr B has also raised concerns about repairs to his water heater.  I havent seen that these 
issues have been  raised with Aviva  or that its had an opportunity to respond  to these points. 
So I havent considered them any further within this decision.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9148573