K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave him loans  that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr Lender has said 
it has nothing further to add. Mr G has provided us with some comments. Although I am only 
summarising here what Mr G has said, I have considered his entire response carefully 
before writing this decision.
Mr G points out that his first loan was rolled over twice before being repaid. He says that 
better checks when it was rolled over would have shown he was in deep  financial trouble. 
Mr G doesnt recall  inflating his income  when applying for the loans. And Mr G recalls that he 
was asked by Mr Lender to send  in bank statements before his loans were  agreed.  He thinks  
these statements should have shown Mr Lender that he was in financial trouble.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I still dont think  
Mr Lender was wrong to give these  loans to Mr G.
Mr Lender has now confirmed that Mr G did roll his first loan over on two occasions. I find it 
very disappointing that Mr Lender didnt provide that information to us as part its response to 
Mr Gs complaint. But knowing  that the loan was rolled over twice still doesnt  make me think  
that Mr Lender should have done more checks than I suggested in my provisional decision. 
In itself refinancing  a loan on one or two occasions is not necessarily  an indicator of financial 
difficulties. And so I dont  think  Mr Gs request should have led Mr Lender  to do more  
checks.
The records  that Mr Lender  has provided  show that it recorded Mr Gs income  as being 
£2,500. Of course  I have  no way of knowing that is the submission that Mr G made at the 
time. But I also have no reason to doubt  that Mr Lender accurately recorded Mr Gs 
declaration and that is what  it has provided  to us. However, even if I accepted  that Mr G had 
declared a lower amount of income, that wouldnt lead me to conclude  that Mr Lender should  
have done more checks, or that it should  have assessed the loan as being unaffordable.
I have also asked Mr Lender if Mr G provided a copy of his bank  statement  when  he applied 
for the first loan. Mr Lender has said that he didnt. In my experience  it was very rare, in 
2012, for lenders to ask for copies of a borrowers bank statements in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. As I said in my provisional decision Mr G was also borrowing at that 
time from a number of other short term lenders. So I think it most likely  that it was another 
lender, and not Mr Lender, that might have  asked Mr G for a copy  of his bank statement.
Ref: DRN90047622I think that the checks Mr Lender  did before agreeing the second  loan were  proportionate, 
and that they showed  the loan to be affordable. And whilst I think Mr Lender should have 
done more checks  before agreeing the first loan, I dont think what I consider to be 
proportionate checks would have shown that loan to be unaffordable either.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90047623EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans  that he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Mr G has borrowed twice  from Mr Lender.  He borrowed £500 in February 2012  that was repayable 
the following month,  and then borrowed £500 in December 2015 that was repayable in six monthly  
instalments. Both of Mr Gs loans  have  been  fully repaid.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the checks 
Mr Lender had done before  agreeing the second loan had been sufficient. But she thought  more 
checks should  have been done before  Mr G was given the first loan. And she thought that better 
checks would have shown  Mr Lender that Mr G couldnt afford to repay  that loan. So she asked  
Mr Lender to pay Mr G some  compensation.
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Mr Lender was required  to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether  Mr G could  
afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be proportionate to things 
such as the amount Mr G was borrowing,  and his lending history, but there was no set list of checks 
Mr Lender had to do.
Mr Lender has told us about  the checks it did before  lending to Mr G. Before the first loan it asked him 
for details of his normal income. And Mr Lender says that it checked Mr Gs credit file. Before  the 
second loan Mr Lender  asked Mr G for details of both his income and his normal  expenditure. And it 
also performed a new credit  check.  Although I havent seen the full results of the credit checks, 
Mr Lender has told us that they didnt show any adverse information such as accounts that had 
entered a defaulting or delinquent  status within the last three  years or evidence of any IVAs or 
Bankruptcy. And I am also not aware  of any adverse information of this nature that would  have been 
on Mr Gs credit file at the time of the loans.
I dont think the checks Mr Lender did before  the first loan were sufficient. The repayment that Mr G 
was agreeing  to make, just a couple of weeks after taking the loan, was a reasonably  large proportion 
of the income that he declared  to Mr Lender. So as well as taking details of Mr Gs income I think 
Mr Lender should have  asked him about  his normal living  costs as well.
I do however think the checks Mr Lender did before the second loan were enough.  A considerable 
period of time had passed since Mr G had repaid his first loan. So I think  it would be reasonable  for 
Mr Lender to treat this application as if it had come from a new customer  and base its checks 
accordingly. And although  Mr G borrowed the same amount as before, he was now due to repay  his 
loan in six monthly  instalments. So the amount he needed to pay each month was significantly less 
than before. Based on what Mr G had told Mr Lender about his disposable  income I think it was 
reasonable for Mr Lender  to conclude that this loan was affordable for him.
Ref: DRN90047624But although  I dont  think the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing the first loan were sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Mr Gs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded  that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  Mr Lender that Mr G couldnt  sustainably 
afford the loan. So Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements,  and what  hes told us about his financial 
situation, to see what better checks would have shown  Mr Lender.
Mr G told Mr Lender that he was earning  around £2,500 each month when he applied for this loan. 
Although it seems from his bank statements that his actual income was only just over £2,000 per 
month I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on the information Mr G had provided. And 
looking at the normal expenditure that is shown on Mr Gs bank statements at the time it seems that 
his day to day living  costs  were such that the loan would have seemed to be easily affordable. 
I appreciate that normal living costs didnt make up the majority of Mr Gs expenditure. I can see that 
at the time he took the first loan he already  owed more than his normal  income to other short term 
lenders. But that wasnt something he told Mr Lender when he asked to take the loan. And I dont 
think it is something that what I consider to be proportionate checks  would have discovered  here 
either. I think proportionate checks would have involved Mr Lender asking Mr G about his income,  
and his normal living costs. And from what I can see I think the answers to those questions would  
have suggested that the loan was affordable. So I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to give this loan to 
Mr G either.
Ref: DRN9004762