K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Equifax Limited  have  recorded information  on their credit file 
inaccurately.
background
Mr and Mrs M say that their loan with a company Ill call N was in a Debt Management  Plan 
(DMP) between December 2009 and 2016  and then under an Arrangement to Pay (ATP) 
until April 2017. But they say that Equifax have recorded that information  incorrectly. They 
say that when the DMP ended and they started  reporting the account  as in an ATP, all 
previous entries  were  replaced with information showing that the account had been in 
arrears of greater than six months. 
In September  2016 this service had asked N to amend Mr and Mrs Ms credit file and to 
show that theyd  been in a DMP between 2009 and 2016. They have  confirmed that they 
made that manual adjustment.
Equifax agreed  that the loan had been registered as in a DMP between  the dates Mr and 
Mrs M suggested  but they said, as the DMP had now ended,  it had been removed. They 
said they could  only report active DMPs. They  said Mr and Mrs M could add a note of 
correction to their report to explain they didnt agree with information contained in it.
So Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his 
opinion. He noted that The Principles  for reporting  arrears, arrangements  and defaults 
issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), said that information must  be 
accurate, consistent,  complete and up to date and he agreed  with Mr and Mrs M that this 
wasnt currently the case. He explained  that the ICO said if you are subject to a DMP  this 
will be shown  on your credit file and for such accounts arrears  may continue to be 
calculated in accordance with the contractual terms, but the account  marked as under a 
DMP and he said there was nothing  in The Principles that said this DMP should be removed 
when the DMP  ended.
He said he wouldnt expect past information  to be changed unless it had been inaccurately 
reported and he thought  it had been  accurately reported by N.
He looked at the credit files that had been  issued.  He noted that in July 2015  when  the 
accounts status was shown  as ATP the payment history  entries  had been shown as in an 
ATP from 2011 to 2015 but in February 2017 when the status  showed  as in arrears all the 
previous ATP entries had been changed and now showed the accounts  as being six months 
in arrears (recorded  as 6). So the historical entries  were being changed to reflect the 
current status of the account. The adjudicator  thought this ignored the requirement for 
entries to be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date  because  recorded 
information was being changed  without the approval  of the lender.
He also noted  that thered been no reference to Mr and Mrs M being  in a DMP in any of their 
files. He thought this was unreasonable as he thought potential  creditors  would consider 
those in a DMP  as being actively engaged in resolving their financial circumstances  but 
perhaps wouldnt view those in an ATP so positively. He didnt think changing a DMP to an 
ATP gave  an accurate historical picture  as was required by The Principles.
Ref: DRN93838502He didnt think it was fair for Mr and Mrs M to record a notice of correction on the file but he 
did think the file should show they were in a DMP between December 2009 and September  
2016 and then in an ATP from October 2016 until the account  was brought  up to date in April 
2017.
He noted that Equifax may have some problems  putting this right on their system so he 
suggested they should:
ensure Mr and Mrs Ms credit file showed them as in a DMP between December 
2009 and September 2016 and then in an ATP between October 2016 and April 
2017.
if Equifax were unable  to make a one off correction then the files should be checked 
on a monthly basis and records amended as above. 
if Equifax were unable  to comply with the above then the loan from N would need  to 
be removed in its entirety from the credit file
pay Mr and Mrs M £250  each for the trouble and upset this issue  had caused them
Equifax didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  They didnt think  they were reporting 
inaccurate information and they said that removing the arrears markers  would  have a 
positive impact on Mr and Mrs Ms credit scores which could alter the way potential  lenders 
viewed their applications. They didnt think lenders would want them to hide that kind of 
information. So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Principles for reporting arrears,  arrangements  and defaults issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO), say that information must be accurate, consistent, complete 
and up to date
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs M were in a DMP during the periods mentioned above 
and then in an ATP.  So thats what must  be recorded on their credit  files in order  for the 
records to be accurate,  consistent, complete and up to date.
I dont think its acceptable to change the historical  records based on the current  account 
status. That wouldnt be consistent. And I dont think a reasonable solution would be for Mr 
and Mrs M to add a notice  of correction as the information isnt disputed by the lender and 
the file should therefore give an accurate reflection of what happened.
Ref: DRN93838503It may be that Equifax systems wont currently allow them to make the changes  required but 
I can see that, if thats the case, the adjudicators  solution to the problem is for them  to 
review the file monthly and make manual amendments. It would be unreasonable to expect 
Mr and Mrs M to accept  the account continues to be reported  inaccurately.
But if Equifax  cant  do any of this I think the adjudicator has been fair in suggesting the 
record of the loan with N would need to be removed. It appears that it is now being  reported 
accurately by other credit reference  agencies and as a result I dont think it would 
inconvenience lenders too much. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs M have been inconvenienced by this issue  and I think  a payment of 
£250 per person is appropriate compensation in the circumstances. But I cant  say theres 
conclusive evidence that potential lenders have denied credit as a result of the DMP being  
inaccurately recorded. so I wont be making  any further award.
Overall, I agree  that Equifax need  to take some action here and I think  the adjudicators  
suggestion is a practical  way forward.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I ask Equifax  Limited  to:
ensure Mr and Mrs Ms credit file showed them as in a DMP between December 
2009 and September 2016 and then in an ATP between October 2016 and April 
2017. 
if Equifax are unable  to make a one off correction then the files should be checked on 
a monthly basis and records amended as above. 
if Equifax are unable  to comply with the above then the loan from N should  be 
removed in its entirety from the credit file
pay Mr and Mrs M £250  each for the trouble and upset this issue  had caused them
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9383850