K820x#14complaint
Mr F and the executors  of his late wife, Mrs F, complain that Connells Limited mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint concerns  the sale of a monthly premium PPI, taken out jointly by 
Mr and Mrs F in 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr F and his late wifes  
executors didnt agree with the adjudicators  decision, so the case  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This service is only able to consider a complaint if it falls within certain  criteria  set out in law 
and our case-handling  rules. This PPI was sold before the sale of insurance by brokers  like 
Connells Limited became  regulated in January 2005. This means that Connells didnt have 
to be  and in fact wasnt  - covered  by us when it sold this policy.
But this service can consider some  complaints  about PPI sold before January  2005 where 
the business was covered by a former  scheme and later became covered by us. And 
Connells was covered by one of these schemes  in 2001 - the Mortgage Code Arbitration 
Scheme (MCAS). And it went on to be covered by us from October 2004. 
So this means  that I can consider Mr Fs complaint against Connells. But I have to consider 
it in the same way MCAS would have done. The Mortgage Code was chiefly  concerned  with 
mortgages and secured  lending. There was only a very small part of the code that related to 
insurance. This can be found  in section 3.2 of the code and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
a description of any insurance  service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility  it is to ensure that it is taken  out;
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
us;
a general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So Ive looked  at whether  Connells  failed to meet any of the limited requirements  which  were  
placed on it by The Mortgage Code. 
Ref: DRN90268532Unfortunately, theres very little of the paperwork completed at the time of this sale still 
available. And theres no written record of what was said to, or discussed  with, Mr and Mrs F 
then either.  Thats not altogether surprising given how long ago this sale took place. 
Businesses arent required to keep  this information over such long periods of time. But this 
means I need to decide what I think is most  likely to have happened. To do so, I need to take 
account of the limited  information available to me - including what  Mr F now thinks he recalls 
happening then - together with my more general knowledge of similar sales by Connells from 
around this time.
Mr F says that he and his late wife were told by Connells  that they had to take the PPI as a 
condition of their mortgage.  Ive no doubt  that this is Mr Fs honest recollection  of what was 
said to them at the time. But I do need to take account of the fact that memories of what 
happened at such meetings do tend to fade with time.  
Connells says that the PPI wasnt  a condition of the mortgage offered to them. It says that it 
would have been its normal practice  to discuss with Mr and Mrs F their requirements for 
different types  of insurance, including PPI. And it says it would have provided Mr and Mrs F 
with an insurance  illustration for the PPI policy  which detailed  its monthly  cost.  Having 
agreed to take out the policy,  Mr F would also have been sent a Policy  Schedule  and 
Certificate of Insurance. And Ive seen a letter written to Mr F in 2001 confirming that his 
application for the PPI policy had been accepted  and enclosing  these documents. 
This letter also made it clear that Mr F could cancel  his policy  at any time. And I think Mr F 
would have been likely to do this after he had received  his mortgage, if hed only taken  it out 
because he thought he had to in order to get the mortgage approved.
So whilst I accept that its possible  that the Connells representative Mr and Mrs F spoke  to at 
the time wrongly  mis-led  them in to thinking  they had to take the PPI, I dont think it would  be 
fair for me to conclude  that this is what is most likely  to have happened, based solely on 
what Mr F thinks he remembers happening now. On balance, I think its more likely that 
Mr and Mrs F actively decided to take out the PPI, knowing they didnt  need  to in order  to get 
their mortgage. But I can understand why Mr F may not recall  this now.
Mr F says that he and his late wife didnt need  the PPI because  they had other ways  of 
making their mortgage repayments if he wasnt able to work. He also says that, because of 
their ages, he and his wife wouldnt have been  covered by the policy  for the full term of their 
mortgage. 
But under the Mortgage  Code, Connells wasnt required to give detailed information  about 
the PPI policy  to Mr and Mrs F. And it wasnt required to assess  their eligibility and suitability 
for the policy either. It only needed  to fulfil the specific and very limited  requirements detailed 
above. And whilst  I fully appreciate that this will be a disappointment to Mr F and the 
executors of the late Mrs F, I dont think Ive seen  anything which makes me think  I should 
uphold this complaint because  Connells failed  to meet the Mortgage Codes requirements.
Ref: DRN90268533my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against Connells Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and the 
executors of Mrs F to accept or reject  my decision before 13 October 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9026853