K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. 
To keep things  simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller in my decision.
Mr I says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store card.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1997. 
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr I owed  on his store card.  The policy  would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr I couldnt  work because he had 
an accident, was unwell  or lost his job. The policy also provided life cover which offered to 
repay the outstanding balance in the event of a successful  claim.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL  asked for some information which was provided to it 
in November, but as no further response has been received, the complaint  has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Is case.  
Ive decided to uphold  Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was taken  out during a telephone call some months after the account was 
opened in store. FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy  to Mr I. And from what I know 
about their sales practices, I think its more  likely  that FICL didnt give advice to Mr I during 
the sale. So it didnt  have to check  that the policy was right for him but it did need  to give 
him clear enough information to enable him to decide for himself  if this cover was right for 
him.
I dont have a recording of the call with Mr I so I dont know what  was said.  So I havent 
any evidence to show that Mr I was given clear information about the cost of the policy, in 
real terms.  Its possible FICL may have explained  the amount he would pay for each 
pound he spent on the card, but I dont  know if it explained  that interest would be charged  
on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance or that he would need to keep 
paying the premiums  during a claim. So I dont think its likely Mr I would have  been  made  
aware of the true cost of the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr I as he has told us that he would have been paid full 
sick pay for at least six months  if he was too ill to work. He has also said he had a 
generous amount in savings (equivalent to more than six months pay) that he could have 
used to meet his repayments. So I dont think that Mr I would have thought the policy  was 
value for money  if he had fully understood the costs.
Ref: DRN97155802So, overall, based on what Ive seen and been told, I dont think FICL gave clear enough 
information to Mr I to enable him to decide if the policy was right for him. And, if it had, I 
dont think he would  have  taken the policy out as I dont think  he would have considered  it 
value for money.  So I think Mr I has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr I in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr I would  have owed  when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr I owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr I would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr I would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr I 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr I paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr I wouldve 
owed FICL something on his card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year. 
D.FICL should tell Mr I what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN97155803my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Is complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9715580