K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
December 2003.  Miss K says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Miss K, Nationwide had to make it clear the policy  was optional. It 
also had to get Miss Ks agreement to take it out. Miss K says she had no idea the PPI had 
been added  to her card and she would not have wanted it if it was explained to her. 
When Miss K originally applied for her credit  card online, there was the option to take out a 
PPI. I can see that PPI wasnt taken out at this time. Nationwide say this PPI was sold later 
over the phone when Miss K activated  her credit card. Nationwide  no longer has a copy of 
the call recording from when it sold her PPI. This is unfortunate, but not surprising given  how 
long ago the call took place. 
But it has given me a copy of the call script it says was in use at around  the time  based on 
my knowledge of how Nationwide sold PPI, I think the script is likely to be very similar if not 
the same  as the one that was used when the PPI was sold to Miss K. Ive looked carefully at 
the guidelines Nationwides representatives were  expected to follow during these types  of 
calls. And they show that the representative  shouldve made it clear to Miss K that the PPI 
was optional and it shouldve got Miss Ks consent before adding  the cover.
I dont know exactly what happened  on the call, but there would have been an expectation 
the representative would follow the guidelines set out. So I think  its more likely that Miss K 
had a conversation  with a representative  of Nationwide in which  she was offered a choice to 
buy PPI and that she chose to take it. Miss K says that the PPI was automatically added and 
she wouldnt  have agreed to take it out. But the PPI would have appeared on Miss Ks 
monthly statements   so if she didnt want the cover, she could have questioned this with 
Nationwide when she saw it on her statements.
From looking  at the call script  the representative at Nationwide  should have followed,
I dont think it recommended the PPI to Miss K so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss K got the information she needed to decide  if it was right 
for her
I think its likely that the information  Miss K received about the PPI could have been better 
than it was. But I dont  think better  information would have changed her mind about  taking 
the cover  and Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ks circumstances at the time she was eligible for the policy  
and it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Ref: DRN95584902Miss K has told us shed  sick pay from her employer if she was off work sick. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Miss K couldnt work due to illness  and this wouldve 
been paid alongside her employer benefits.  And if Miss K had lost her job, this policy  
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. So I think she would have valued  the extra security 
the policy gave  her if things went wrong.  And as the policys premiums were  paid monthly, 
she could have cancelled  it at any time if it no longer met her needs. 
Ive thought about everything Miss K has said, including her comments  that she couldve 
relied on family for help if she needed it. I dont  doubt that it would have  been  the intention  of 
Miss Ks family to help. But circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that 
assistance would have been  available to Miss K as and when she needed it. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K. 
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss K because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss K about  that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell 
Miss K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K. 
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9558490