K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) and their failure to 
cover the Driving other Cars (DOC)  claim he made after an accident in his wifes car.
background
Mr G took out an Admiral motor insurance  policy for his own car on 1 January 2018.  He 
thought that this policy also covered him to drive  his wifes car on a third party  basis.
Unfortunately, on 12 August Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident  when  driving his 
wifes car. So, he called  Admiral to make a claim.  They  made him aware that his policy didnt 
cover him to drive his wifes  car. 
Mr G was unhappy so raised a complaint.  He said the policy  documents  werent clear in 
explaining he wouldnt  be covered by Admiral  to drive his wifes car. He also said Admiral  
had provided conflicting  information  over whether they would be prepared  to handle the 
claim.
Admiral responded  initially saying they didnt uphold the complaint. But, after reviewing the 
original response,  offered Mr G £75.00 to recognise that hed been led to believe theyd 
handle the claim. Mr G didnt accept  this offer as he didnt feel it recognised the stress and 
anxiety he was suffering  due to the claim not being covered. Admiral sent a second  
response, offering an additional £100.00.  Mr G remained unhappy so he referred his 
complaint to us. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. She said that Admiral had 
acted fairly  when declining the claim as it was made sufficiently clear  that his wifes car 
wasnt covered when the policy was taken out. But, she agreed that Admiral had made 
errors when  communicating with Mr G and the insurer  of his wifes  car. 
She felt the £175.00 offer made  by Admiral fairly compensated Mr G for these errors  so 
didnt think Admiral needed to do anything further.  As Mr G disagreed with this view, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Admiral declined the claim under the terms of the policy, which  they believed  had made it 
sufficiently clear to Mr G that he wouldnt be insured to drive  his wifes car. Mr G didnt think 
this was made clear  to him when  he bought  the policy.  So, Ive looked at the policy  
documents and the information  available to Mr G when  he bought the insurance to decide 
whether Mr G shouldve been  aware at that time.
Ive seen Mr G purchased the insurance  policy online through a comparison website. Mr Gs 
insurance documents were uploaded to an online portal, which  he accessed on 15 January; 
two weeks after the policy began.  Im aware Mr G has said he spoke to Admiral  before 
buying the policy to confirm he could  drive his wifes car under the DOC section  of the policy.  
Ive seen no record of this conversation so Im unable to agree that Admiral  mis-advised 
before him before he took the policy out.
Ref: DRN97934002Ive seen the certificate of motor insurance  attached  to the policy which  says The 
policyholder may also drive with the consent of the owner a private motor car as long as the 
other car is not a car either owned by you or your partner or hire or leased to your or you 
partner. This certificate  was included in the documents that Mr G accessed  when  he logged 
onto the online portal and I think  it made  it clear that Mr G wouldnt be covered to drive his 
partners car.
But, Im aware Mr G doesnt think the term partner is clear enough for him to assume it 
included his wife and that the document should  also say spouse. When  Mr G called  Admiral  
to make the claim, he was directed to the policy terms and conditions  which  defines partner 
as Your husband, wife, civil partner or a person whom you live on a permanent  basis at the 
same address. Mr G has explained he wasnt given a copy of these terms and conditions 
and wouldve needed to search for these online to understand  the definition. He  thinks this 
is unreasonable.
I understand Mr Gs view and I think ideally the terms and conditions would have been 
available on the online portal. Im unable to confirm that they were. But, I dont think  this 
means Admiral shouldve accepted the claim. I think that the term partner is clear enough in 
every day use that  Mr  G ought reasonably to have understood that this would include his 
wife. As this condition was clearly presented on the certificate of motor insurance,  I think  
Admiral provided enough information for Mr G to be aware his policy wouldnt allow  him to 
drive his wifes  car. Its unfortunate that Mr G wasnt aware on this occasion,  but I think  
Admiral have fairly declined the claim.
Im aware that Admiral have admitted that after the initial decline of the claim they made 
errors when  communicating with Mr G. Ive listened to the call Mr G had with Admiral  on 21 
August where  he was told theyd be handing  the third party claim which  contradicted the 
information he was given on the initial call. It was clear that Mr G was worried about the 
consequences of the claim being  declined so I think this information  would  have created 
some confusion and false  hope. But, Mr G received a response to his complaint about the 
decline a week later which explained  the original  decline stood. So, I think  Admirals  offer of 
£75 to recognise the mistake made  on this call is reasonable as the error  was rectified in a 
relatively short space  of time.
Admiral have also admitted they didnt make Mr G aware they would be writing  to the third 
party solicitors, directing them to send any further correspondence to Mr Gs wifes insurers. 
Theyve also admitted  this conflicted with the advice Mr G was given on a call he held with 
them on 17 September where  they said they would handle the third party claim and recover 
the costs from him directly. To recognise these errors, theyve offered Mr G a further 
£100.00 which, I understand, hasnt yet been banked.  So, Ive considered whether this offer 
is fair given  the circumstances.
Ive listened to the call where  Admiral provided the incorrect  advice. Im aware this was the 
second time Mr G was told by Admiral  theyd be handling the claim, only to be told otherwise 
at a later date. I think its clear on this call that Mr G was worried about the situation he found 
himself in. This confusion  was caused by being  made aware that the third party  was now in 
contact with his wifes insurer  regarding  the claim. Had Admiral  made  Mr G aware of the 
letter they were  sending to the third party providing  his wifes insurer details, I think  the 
surprise value of this letter  wouldve  been reduced. 
Ref: DRN97934003I can appreciate that Mr Gs worries wouldve been made worse when he was made  aware 
in Admirals final response that they wouldnt be dealing with the third party claim. Again, this 
was the second time they changed their stance. I dont think  Admiral had a duty to handle  
the third party  claim as the accident wasnt something his policy covered. But, I do think Mr 
G had asked for re-assurance from Admiral on a number of occasions that they wouldnt 
leave him to face the claim alone. I think their repeated mis-advice created unrealistic 
expectations. 
But, I think Admiral have  acted fairly  when  providing  the information of the cars insurer after 
deciding they wouldnt be handling the claim. The have a duty to provide the correct  
information to the third party and this included the insurance information of the car involved  
in the accident. Mr Gs policy also explains that Admiral are entitled  to exchange information 
with other  parties  involved with the accident or claim  so theyve acted in line with the policy  
when doing so.
So whilst Admiral acted as Id expect them to, I think the additional  £100.00 offer in their 
second response is a fair amount to compensate for how the impact  of their actions  made an 
already difficult situation for Mr G worse. 
I understand that Mr G has been severely affected by the stress of having no insurance  
cover for the accident and the potential consequences of this. So, I understand why this 
decision isnt the one he hoped for. But, I think Admirals  decision to decline the claim and 
not to liaise  with the third party insurer is fair under the terms of the policy.  Admiral have 
made errors that have added to the anxiety created by this situation, but I think the total 
compensation of £175.00 fairly  compensates for this and dont think  they need  to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about  Admiral Insurance  
Company Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020. 
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9793400