K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  sold him a life insurance policy that was not fit for 
purpose. His prime  objective was to ensure his wife would receive a specific  lump sum in the 
event of his death yet premium rises  made the policy unaffordable.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 23 September 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr M responded, saying:
He was not a typical  bank manager,  as ReAssure claimed, but a corporate marketing 
manager
He had never heard of a whole  of life policy
He simply  accepted the advisors  recommendation  that this was the best way to 
protect his wife after his retirement
ReAssure disagreed with my decision. It said Mr M clearly wanted  a protection policy to 
provide financial  security for his wife during his lifetime.  If he had taken  a savings 
endowment plan and died within the first few years it would not have provided anywhere 
near the £150,000 he asked for at the time of the sale.  My decision is based on the benefit  
of hindsight which suits Mr Ms circumstances now rather than at the time of the sale.  It is 
also clear that the plan was sum assured-driven rather than premium-driven.
The most appropriate plan would have  been  a whole of life policy set up on a balanced basis 
- as the complaint is about  its reviewable  nature - as there  would have been  less chance of 
failing reviews.  Further, at retirement Mr M would  have had the option of keeping  the plan 
going of cashing it in and taking the surrender proceeds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons previously  outlined  I am 
satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld.
ReAssure now admits  that its recommendation did not meet  with Mr Ms declared objectives  
given the very real risks posed by a policy set up on a maximum cover  basis.
It put forward a plausible case that a whole of life policy on a standard basis would have  
been a more suitable recommendation.  But there was still a significant  chance of such a 
policy failing a review,  particularly after retirement,  so there  was no guarantee that such  a 
plan would prove affordable/provide a large  lump  sum whenever Mr M died. 
Crucially, the figures it has now provided raise strong doubts as to whether Mr M would  have 
chosen such an option. His actual initial premium of £98 a month would have  only provided 
for £37k  of cover while it would have cost more than £200 a month  at the outset - to 
provide the level of cover his maximum cover  policy delivered.
I cannot safely say whether he would have chosen either  of these options, and doubt either 
would have proved attractive.
Ref: DRN93640982In this context I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr M would not have gone 
ahead with a whole  of life policy if fully informed of the options and the risks entailed  with 
these.
I still believe a savings  endowment plan would  have been an appropriate recommendation 
but, again, ReAssures recently-supplied figures  raise serious doubts as to how significant a 
level of cover would have been  available  for the amount Mr M chose to commit to. So I doubt  
Mr M would have chosen such an option.
Given this, I believe ReAssure should refund the premiums Mr M paid on his policy as the 
evidence, in my view, does not indicate he would likely  have chosen  any of the obvious 
policies ReAssure sold at the time.
In many circumstances  this service instructs a business to add 8% simple interest per 
annum to refunded premiums to reflect  the loss of use of this money over the time 
concerned. In this case I feel this is over-generous as I am satisfied that Mr M was happy 
with the life cover and enjoyed such protection for 20 years.
Taking this into account, I think  it would  be fairer to simply add interest at Bank of England 
base rate plus 1% (compounded).  This formula still provides a reasonable return on Mr Ms 
money, comparable  with him having invested but does deliver a fairer level of compensation 
than the court-approved rate of 8%, taking account of the life cover he enjoyed.  
I put this to ReAssure.  It acknowledged why I had reached this conclusion  but felt that the 
cost of life cover should be deduct  from the refund  of premiums  and supplied  figures  to 
show the likely compensation that would result.
I told ReAssure that I didnt think this would be fair given Mr Ms prime objective, in my view,  
was to ensure  he built up a sufficient sum to offset the loss of household  income  if/when he 
died in retirement before his wife. I therefore didnt believe it was fair for most of his 
payments to be swept up in insurance  cover such that only a very small amount remained  
as in the case of its latest proposed redress.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  ReAssure  Limited to refund the premiums Mr M paid on 
this policy  and add interest at Bank  of England base rate plus 1% on each premium from the 
date it was paid to the date of settlement. If Mr M received a surrender sum when he 
cancelled this policy this figure should  be taken into consideration  and as of the date he 
received it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93640983provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure  Limited  sold him a life insurance policy that was not fit for purpose.  His 
prime objective was to ensure his wife would  receive  a specific lump  sum in the event of his death yet 
premium rises  made the policy unaffordable.
background
There was a 5% annual indexation of both the sum assured and the monthly  premium.  Mr M 
discontinued this indexation  at some point and agreed to reduce the sum assured after failed reviews 
in 2008 and 2013. After the 2018 review he surrendered the policy.
ReAssure rejected  Mr Ms complaint, saying  it was satisfied he had been fully aware of the renewable 
nature of the policy and the risk of premium rises/reductions in the sum assured.
An investigator at this service felt the complaint should be upheld. He noted  that the policy had been 
set up with a sum assured of £150,000 - with an initial premium of £98 - and on a maximum  cover 
basis, resulting in most of the premiums simply  paying  for the monthly cost of insurance cover. This 
meant that very little was invested to provide a bulwark against the need for future  premium rises for 
the increased  cost of cover  when Mr M got older. 
He said that if the policy had been  set up on a standard cover basis the initial premiums would have 
been higher but this would have reduced the need for future  rises. Given Mr Ms financial 
circumstances back in 1998  he felt he would more likely  than not have chosen to pay bigger 
premiums if fully informed of the likely  implications  of the two types of cover.
He therefore recommended that ReAssure rewrite Mr Ms policy as if it had been taken out on a 
balanced (standard) cover basis. He didnt think it would be fair to ask Mr M to pay the additional 
premium amounts; instead  ReAssure would need to make up the shortfall in his current  investment 
pot. Mr M would, however,  need to pay the correct  premiums for his standard cover policy going  
forward.
Both ReAssure and Mr M disagreed with the investigators view.
ReAssure said it did not accept that Mr M was unaware of the different cover options, particularly  
given he was a bank manager  and therefore had good financial  knowledge. Further, it said that the 
brochure explained the difference between maximum and balanced cover and the implication for 
premium rises. 
It also noted  that Mr Ms policy had first failed a review in 2008 and he had agreed to reduce the sum 
assured as a result. He therefore  could  have raised concerns about  the policy  at that point.
Mr M said the investigator hadnt fully grasped the nature of his complaint, saying his primary 
objective  as recorded on the Fact Find - was to have a financial vehicle  that would provide a lump  
sum for his wife if he died before her after he had retired. This was because  she would only be 
entitled to half of his private pension and his own state  pension income would  also be lost; these two 
things causing a significant reduction in her retirement income.
In this context the investigators proposed solution was not appropriate. Firstly, because paying  
increased premiums  is no longer affordable  in his retirement,  let alone  being asked to pay for the 
missing payments over the previous 21 years. He therefore felt ReAssure  should return all the 
premiums with interest (minus the surrender  sum already  paid).
Ref: DRN93640984He also said that back in 1988  he was working, had mortgage protection and his wife was working.  So 
while there might have  been a small mortgage shortfall if hed died this consideration was, at best, an 
afterthought compared  to his primary  objective: securing  a lump sum for his wife if he died before her 
during retirement.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I fully agree with the investigators view that a maximum cover whole of life (WoL) policy was never 
likely to meet  Mr Ms objectives. As is clear from the Fact Find his primary  concern  was to ensure his 
wife received a large lump sum in the event of his death, particularly after hed retired i.e. around 20 
years in the future. Therefore, it was paramount that any recommended plan or policy was likely to 
prove to be affordable (as far as one could predict) several decades  ahead, and after Mr M had 
retired (and faced a near-inevitable reduction in income).
Yet a maximum cover WoL policy  was almost certain to require large premium rises at the very point 
Mr Ms income reduced, if not before. So affordability in retirement was an inevitable issue with this 
recommendation. There is no evidence to indicate  that the advisor  pointed this out or warned of the 
very significant drawback  with what he was proposing. 
For this reason, and those  outlined by the investigator, I am satisfied this was not a suitable 
recommendation. I acknowledge that Mr M had more  financial experience than an average customer 
but I consider this policy so manifestly unsuitable  for his recorded objective that I am satisfied he did 
not have sufficient  specialist knowledge to fully assess the proposed recommendation.
I recognise also that Mr M could well have brought his current complaint after one of the earlier failed 
reviews i.e. more than three years ago. But as ReAssure  gave this service permission to consider his 
complaint it cannot now withdraw that permission.
Taking account of Mr Ms circumstances and objectives  at the time, I believe  the most  suitable 
recommendation would have been a savings  endowment policy. This would  have provided  some 
insurance cover during the 20 years or so till Mr Ms projected retirement; probably sufficient to meet 
his modest requirements for cover (over and above what was likely to be generous employee  
protection).
Crucially, most of his monthly payments would have been invested to build up a sizeable pot so by 
the time he retired such his wife would receive a substantial sum if he were then to die before her.
ReAssure should therefore  compare the surrender value  Mr M received with how much his same 
monthly payments would have delivered if invested in one of its standard  savings endowment 
policies. A 10 or 20 year policy with rolling renewability  would be appropriate.
If it did not have such a policy in 1998, or something equally suitable, it will need to pay compensation  
based on the returns Mr M might have got via this services recommended  medium risk returns 
formula: that is, the returns as shown  via the FTSE UK Private  Income Total Return Index. As this 
index does not include any deductions for life cover  I would  prefer the former  redress methodology.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr M would  have encashed such a plan when he surrendered  his 
WOL policy so it would  not be appropriate to add 8% interest to the loss figure. Instead, ReAssure 
should use the same  medium risk formula to calculate how much growth  Mr M might have achieved 
on the loss figure between the surrender  date and the settlement  date of this complaint. This is 
whether it uses one of its savings endowment  policies  as the basis for calculating redress or the 
formula above. 
Ref: DRN93640985my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct ReAssure to pay compensation  as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9364098