K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company have unfairly  declined  her 
claim made under a legal expenses insurance  policy. 
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents  and claims  handlers. 
Miss W has been helped  with her complaint by a representative. For ease of reading Ill refer 
to all submissions as having been  made by Miss W herself.
background 
In May 2017  Miss W instructed a builder Ill refer to as B to do work at her home.  There was 
to be a single storey rear extension and a variety of work done to the existing house. Miss W 
says some of the work is incomplete and what has been done  isnt to a satisfactory  
standard. 
She wants to take legal action against  B and made a claim to DAS. After  considering  the 
claim DAS advised that it wasnt something the policy  provides cover  for. They  highlighted 
part of the policy which excludes contract  disputes in relation to building work to support their 
position. 
Miss W complained, she accepted that some  building work was excluded,  but pointed  out 
that common home improvements such as fitting  a replacement kitchen are included. She 
was also unhappy  with a delay in DAS responding to her. She would like DAS to consider  a 
proportion of her legal costs. DAS maintained  that the policy  term applies,  but they accepted 
the service side of the complaint and offered £100 compensation. Being unhappy with this 
response, Miss W brought  her complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  thought it should  be upheld. He concluded DAS hadnt fairly 
declined the claim. He thought the exclusion didnt apply to the whole contract, and the 
elements which  could be considered home  improvements  should  be covered. He 
recommended that DAS reconsider the claim. 
DAS didnt accept  this and have asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. I came to 
a different conclusion so on 27 February 2019 I issued a provisional  decision in which I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different 
outcome.
the claim
Miss Ws policy provides cover for contractual disputes relating to the provision of goods and 
services. But like almost  all policies, there are terms and conditions  that apply. Miss Ws 
policy says there is no cover for Anything relating to the building, converting, extending, 
altering, renovating, or demolishing of your home  (this does not apply to common home 
improvements, such as installing double glazing or replacement kitchens).
Ref: DRN94431772I dont think this policy term is inherently  unfair. I think  it is clear that smaller common  home 
improvements are covered by the policy, but that larger projects involving building  work  and 
renovation arent. 
The letter before action that Miss Ws solicitor sent to B says the contract was to Design, 
erect, build and furnish a Single-Storey Extension, and a complete House Refurbishment to 
the existing building. It goes on to say that B have breached  the contract through:
defects which fail to comply with building control and regulation
failure to provide Electricity and Gas Safety  Certificates
failure to file with building  control any drawings, steel and structural calculations
failure to obtain  building controls  approval  and sign off certificates.
Taking all of this into consideration, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think  DAS 
are unfair in applying the above policy term to decline  the claim.  I think the evidence is clear  
that there  was a considerable amount of work  being done to Miss Ws house. There  is also 
evidence in the scope of work that a downstairs washroom was to be installed where the 
original kitchen was. And the new kitchen would presumably be fitted in another  location.  
I understand Miss Ws point that individual elements of the works may be able to be 
considered common  home improvements. The policy refers to a replacement  kitchen  as 
an example. But I think  that moving the kitchen  goes beyond a replacement.  And more  
importantly, the contract specifically relates to an extension and complete refurbishment of 
the house.
So looking  at this complaint as a whole, I think works of this nature  can only fairly be 
described as an extension and renovation. And as such, I think it is fair for DAS to rely on 
the exclusion to decline the claim. 
the service
DAS have an agreed service level of responding to correspondence within  five working  days. 
When Miss W wrote to them  in relation to her claim, they took nine working days  to respond.  
Miss W also had to chase them for this response. DAS acknowledged this was outside the 
service standards  they aim to meet. 
They offered  Miss W £100  as compensation for any trouble  and upset caused by their 
delayed response.  In line with what our investigator explained, Im satisfied this is a fair 
amount and I dont  intend to direct that it needs to be increased.
DAS responded  and said they had nothing further  to add. Miss W doesnt accept my 
provisional decision and made a number  of further  comments. Now both parties have had an 
opportunity for comment I can go ahead  with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
change from my provisional findings.  I understand this will be disappointing  for Miss W, so 
Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN94431773Some of Miss Ws response to my provisional decision related to our investigators findings. 
Our service operates a two stage process.  DAS disagreed with our investigators findings 
and asked that an ombudsman review everything afresh. As such I wont be providing  further  
comment on our investigators outcome, I set out my position in my provisional decision and 
as the complaint is now with me, our investigators outcome is of less relevance. 
Miss W questioned why I raised  the issue of the kitchen being moved within  the house and 
questioned the relevance. My apologies  if any confusion  was caused. But my point remains 
that I consider the relocation of a kitchen within a property to be further evidence that the 
works should more  fairly be considered a renovation. Rather than solely  a like for like kitchen 
replacement.
Miss W says the contract related to the building of an extension (which she accepts is 
excluded) and a number of common  home improvements. She has provided  a list of ten 
items of work included  in the contract that she considers to be common home  
improvements that she says should be covered. I can understand why Miss W says this. But 
Im more persuaded  by the letter before action from her solicitor as quoted  above  referring  to 
a complete house refurbishment. 
Miss W points out that the policy document doesnt say that a contract relating to building  
work is excluded (and that this doesnt  apply to common  home improvements). I agree that 
is the case. The relevant policy wording is as quoted above  from the contract disputes 
section of the policy. But anything relating to is broader than specifically a contract. So I 
dont agree that this makes a difference.
Miss W presents the argument that it is unfair  that the amount of work contracted at the 
same time means she isnt covered for things which  would be otherwise be covered. Ive 
carefully thought  about this point. I think its likely that the bigger the project,  the more  scope  
there is for something to go wrong  and for a dispute  to arise. While DAS may be willing to 
cover smaller, more  straightforward improvements such  as replacing double  glazing or a 
kitchen, they dont want the policy to cover the risks associated with larger building works.  
And as such Im not persuaded its unfair  for DAS to rely on this term to decline the claim or 
that it makes  the term itself inherently  unfair. 
I think the policy term can only fairly be read to say that disputes relating to common home 
improvements will be covered if they arent  part of larger  works  involving building, 
converting, extending, altering, renovating, or demolishing. If this were just a case  of one 
smaller element of the contracted works being under  dispute  then it might  not be fair to apply  
the term. But in this complaint the nature of the alleged breaches  of contract and the scope 
and extent of the work involved,  means I dont think the policy term has been unfairly applied  
in the circumstances of this case.  I still think that the contract and the works taken as a 
whole can only fairly be considered to be an extension and renovation. 
Neither party disputed  my provisional  findings in relation  to the service element of the 
complaint, so I wont be commenting  further  on that point.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance Company Limited  must  pay 
Miss W £100.
Ref: DRN94431774Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9443177