K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Black Horse  Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services,  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Ms C under a hire purchase agreement with Land Rover 
Financial Services that she electronically signed in September 2016. She returned the car to 
the dealer in March 2018 because  she said that there were issues with the cars convertible 
roof, engine and gearbox. The car was repaired by the dealer under warranty and was 
returned to Ms C in June  2018. She was provided  with a courtesy car but says that it was 
more expensive to run. She complained to Land  Rover Financial Services in May 2018 and 
said that she wanted to reject  the car or to have a replacement car. It offered to pay her 
£298.50 (which  it said was 25% of her monthly payments for the three months  that the car 
had been with the dealer)  as compensation for any trouble and upset caused by the roof 
issue and the fact that shed been  using a courtesy  car which  wasnt a like-for-like 
replacement. Ms C didnt accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  that 
it would  be fair for Ms C to get a full refund of her payments because  she still had use of a 
car and it was fair that she made a contribution towards the agreement for the use of the 
courtesy car. So she thought that Land  Rover Financial Services offer of a refund of 25% of 
three of her monthly payments was fair.
Ms C has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that she was paying £400  for three months for a convertible  car that she wasn't in 
possession of during  a really nice summer  and the dealer was only supposed to keep it for a 
week but had it for three months.  She also says that the courtesy  car had a much larger 
engine so cost her a lot more in petrol. And she says that the roof still isnt working  properly 
so its booked into the dealer for further work and that shed keep the investigator  updated  
with what happens.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Land Rover Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that 
the car was of satisfactory  quality.  That will depend  on a number of factors, including the 
age, and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Ms C was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that the car 
would be free from even  minor defects. Satisfactory  quality  also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time  but exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number  of factors. 
The car was supplied to Ms C in September 2016 and she returned it to the dealer because 
of issues with the cars roof, engine and gearbox  in March 2018  about a year and a half 
later. Ive seen no evidence to show that she complained  about  any faults with the car before 
then. The dealer repaired the issues under warranty and returned  the car to Ms C in June 
2018. 
Ref: DRN97550582Ms C was provided with a courtesy car by the dealer. She complained to Land Rover  
Financial Services in May 2018 and said that she wanted to reject  the car or to have a 
replacement car. It offered to pay her £298.50  as compensation for any trouble and upset  
caused by the roof issue and the fact that shed been using a courtesy  car which wasnt a 
like-for-like replacement. 
Ms C had the car for a year and a half before she returned the car to the dealer and it 
repaired the car under warranty. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable response to the 
issues with the car. And Im not persuaded that Ms C was entitled to reject the car or to 
receive a replacement. 
Her monthly  payment under the agreement  was £398.01 and she was provided with a 
courtesy car by the dealer for the three months  that she was without her car. She says that 
the car wasnt suitable for her because it had a larger  engine  and was much more  expensive 
to run. But Ive seen  no evidence to show that she asked the dealer to provide her with a 
different courtesy  car. Land Rover Financial Services has offered  to refund to her 25% of the 
monthly payments  that she made for the three  months that her car was with the dealer  
which equals £298.50.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Ms C to have use of a car under the 
hire purchase agreement  whether it was the car that was supplied to her or the courtesy 
car  and to receive a larger refund that shes been offered by Land  Rover Financial 
Services. I consider the refund of £298.50  to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require  Land  Rover Financial 
Services to pay a higher  amount of compensation to Ms C than its already offered to her  
or to take any other action in response to her complaint. 
Ms C says that the roof still isnt working  properly  and that the car was going back to the 
dealer for further repairs. She said that shed provide  the investigator with updates  about  that 
- but she hasnt done so  and she hasnt  responded to the investigators  requests for an 
update. Ive seen no other  evidence to show that there are any issues with the roof. If there 
do continue to be issues with the cars roof Ms C can complain again  to Land Rover  
Financial Services  and, if shes not satisfied with its response,  she may be able to make 
another complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN97550583my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Land Rover  Financial Services should pay to Ms C 
the £298.50 thats its offered her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9755058