K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc wont make  up the shortfall in her 
savings account  after an unauthorised withdrawal  in 2010. She only got slightly more  than 
£500 when she cashed in her account in 2018.
background
Mr R, Miss Bs uncle, opened  three savings accounts in August 2008 for three nephews and 
nieces and put £2,000  in each for them. This fulfilled  his fathers  wishes. Miss B was able to 
access the account when she was 18. Until then funds were held in trust in Mr Rs name.
When Miss B cashed in the account in 2018, she was shocked to find firstly RBS had 
categorised it as dormant.  And then after the account was located,  she only received 
£501.68 plus interest. She complained.  She was told a withdrawal had been made on 
17 August 2010  from this account by her uncle for £1,498.32. As this had been authorised  
because Mr R was the authorised account user at the time  RBS would do nothing further. 
They did send Miss B a cheque for £144.35  which included  her costs of visiting  her local 
branch as well as £70 compensation.
Mr R brought a complaint to the ombudsman service, along  with Miss B. Our investigator 
obtained the evidence RBS had to show what happened in Mr Rs branch on 17 August 
2010. Mr R deposited  a cheque and withdrew £250  in cash using his debit card and PIN. 
There was also what looked to be a withdrawal of £1,498.32 worth of foreign  currency  from 
Miss Bs account at the same time.  He didnt think it would  be fair to ask RBS to do anything  
further.
Mr R was adamant hed not bought foreign  currency from RBS as he always  bought his 
currency elsewhere. He asked an ombudsman to consider  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion to our investigator. As I was intending to do this Ive been in touch with 
both RBS and Miss B to explain my thinking.  Ill explain  this again here.
Firstly Ive confirmed that Miss B is the correct  eligible complainant,  not Mr R. At the time the 
complaint came to us, shed passed  18 and the savings account  had become  hers.  However 
what happened is intrinsically wrapped up with what happened on 17 August 2010 when 
Mr R was in his branch  that I shared my thinking  with him as well. Particularly as he was 
initially led to think this complaint was his.
Its worth  stressing that, to state the obvious, I wasnt there when £1,498.32 was withdrawn 
from Miss Bs account. Its more than nine years  ago so any records  and luckily RBS does 
have some  are limited.   
Ive taken into account what Mr R has told us: that he would never  have withdrawn money 
from Miss Bs account. In fact I can see he had no need to as there were sufficient funds 
within his own current account for any transaction he was planning.
Ref: DRN95801692I know  and Mr R agrees about  this  he was about  to embark  on a trip overseas and would  
need foreign currency for this trip. Hes told us this would have been far more  money  than 
£1,498.32 would have bought him. Hes also confirmed he never bought  his foreign currency  
from RBS as he could  get a better  deal elsewhere. But looking at both his RBS credit card 
and current account  statements  over this period, I cant see any other transaction that looks  
like foreign currency, apart from a transaction of a similar size on the boat over to the United 
States. So I do believe all the evidence points  to him getting foreign currency  on 17 August.
The evidence confirms:
Mr R was definitely in his RBS branch on 17 August 2010; 
He paid a cheque into his current account  for £4,530;
There was a transaction  buying foreign currency at 14:38 from Miss Bs account. Im 
pretty sure this resulted  in Mr R being  given £1498.32 worth of US dollars  for his 
upcoming holiday;  
He took out £250 in cash over the counter at 14:39 from his current  account; 
Mr R had more than sufficient funds in his current account for any transaction;  and  
Mr R was the authorised signatory for the savings account held in trust for Miss B.
I dont think theres much  chance  Mr R didnt  authorise the withdrawal of the currency. I 
know he says not. But the coincidence of a foreign currency  transaction  happening at the 
time he was in branch just a week or so before he was due to go on holiday seems a stretch  
to me.
But how? This is where I differ from our investigator. I believe:
Its completely possible that a mistake was made by the teller. Weve been  told by 
RBS the teller would  be able to see all accounts in Mr Rs name. That includes the 
three savings accounts he held in trust.  It is possible they made  the foreign currency 
withdrawal from the wrong  account.
Mr R would in all likelihood have been  given something to sign for the currency  
transaction but I accept he wouldnt have necessarily noticed  the debit used a 
different account  number and was in fact the savings account.
Mr R used his debit  card to withdraw cash so that transaction  would have debited his 
current account. He was also paying  in a cheque to his current account so more  than 
likely he handed over the cheque with a completed bank giro credit slip.
So I believe  its not an unauthorised transaction but a bank  error.  Im in no doubt  Mr R got 
the benefit of the money but its also the case that Miss Bs account  when it matured  as 
she reached 18  was significantly depleted.
Mr R has argued  that the teller could have committed fraud. Theres  certainly  a slim 
possibility that occurred but I think its extremely unlikely. Theres  no reason for a foreign 
currency withdrawal to have been made without Mr R prompting that.
Mr R strenuously  believes  he didnt withdraw foreign currency in branch. But Im sure he 
accepts the possibility he may be wrong.  He only found out about  it eight  years  after it was 
made. It is more than likely that he wouldnt automatically recall making it.  
As both parties know  because Ive been  in touch with them over the last few months   I 
have considered this complaint carefully.  There is supporting evidence for RBSs  assertion; 
likewise there is evidence  in support of Mr R. I have to decide  this case  on the balance of 
Ref: DRN95801693probabilities, and considering the case overall and on balance  I have decided the facts 
support the outcome as Ive covered above.
The difficulty  is that I dont  think it would be fair to require RBS to repay  £1,498.32  to Miss B. 
Even if Mr R didnt  intend to withdraw  foreign currency from RBS that day, I believe the 
evidence points to him doing this. I agree he didnt mean to make that transaction from his 
nieces savings account but that is what happened. Therefore he got the benefit of that 
transaction. I cant oblige him to repay Miss B  that will have to be an agreement  between 
the two of them. Although RBS made a mistake as I believe they did, I dont think  its fair 
they reimburse Miss B in full. They  didnt give Mr R foreign currency  unrequested:  rather 
they debited the wrong  account.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Obviously Miss B didnt make this transaction. But 
at the time of the transaction the account was held in trust by Mr R. Having reviewed  the 
terms and conditions I can see Mr R was authorised to withdraw funds from the account. 
Strictly speaking I dont  think it would  be true to say the transaction  was unauthorised.
I will be asking  RBS to re-calculate the interest  that would have been payable  on Miss Bs 
account as if £2,000  had remained there  until she withdrew the final amount and pay her the 
remaining interest amount  she wasnt given in 2018.  I dont think this will be very much 
however. Ive told RBS already I would be asking  them to arrange this.
In discussion with RBS they agreed to pay Miss B a further £80 in compensation to bring  
that up to a total of £150. They didnt agree to pay the additional interest but this may have 
been an oversight  on their part.
Im sorry  that my resolution will not give Miss B what she wants:  the missing £1,500. I dont 
want to cause a family  breach and can only stress I dont believe Mr R withdrew currency 
deliberately from her savings account. But I do believe he got the benefit of the money  from 
her account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to:
Calculate what interest  would  have been  payable on £2,000 on Miss Bs savings 
account;
Repay Miss B that amount (minus  any interest already paid in 2018); and
Pay Miss B a further £80 compensation for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9580169