K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains that an appointed representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  
Limited mis-sold her a mortgage, as the advice they gave was unsuitable.
background 
Ms L had a mortgage,  which  was part repayment  and part interest-only. The mortgage term 
was due to end in 2008. In 2005, L&G advised  Ms L to re-mortgage. Due to Ms Ls 
circumstances, they advised her to switch more of her existing mortgage to repayment, and 
borrow some  extra  funds  to consolidate  existing debts. Ms L also borrowed some more  
money to buy a car. L&G advised Ms L to take the mortgage over a five-year term.
A claims  management company (CMC) complained to L&G on Ms Ls behalf. They  said the 
mortgage advice  was unsuitable,  as Ms L didnt need to consolidate her existing  unsecured 
debts. They  said if she wanted  additional  borrowing, she could have taken a further advance 
with her existing lender.  Overall, they didnt think Ms L needed to re-mortgage.  They  also 
complained about the wills and estate  package she was sold by L&G at the same time, and 
the legal  fees paid.  
L&G upheld Ms Ls complaint.  They  said whilst they were  satisfied  the mortgage advice they 
gave was suitable, they thought Ms L may have incurred unnecessary legal costs in respect 
of her re-mortgage. So they offered  to refund these, as well as the mortgage  interest  paid 
due to the costs  being added to the mortgage.  They offered to refund £197.64. They also 
agreed that the costs for the will package  shouldnt have been  added to the mortgage  
balance, so they offered to refund the interest  paid on this too  which was £24.46.  They  
offered to pay 8% simple interest  on the amount offered, and £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Their total offer to Ms L was £529.53.
Since the complaints  been with our service,  L&G have offered to refund  the commission the 
broker received from the solicitor they recommended, together with £100 compensation, 
which the CMC has now accepted.
Our investigator looked into things, and explained that L&Gs offer was fair, as he thought 
the mortgage advice was suitable. The CMC disagreed, so the complaints  been  passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability of the mortgage advice
The CMC have raised several  reasons  why they feel the mortgage advice was unsuitable  for 
Ms L. I want to assure them that Ive carefully considered everything theyve said,  but I will 
address what I feel is the crux of the matter here.
Ive considered the information weve got from the time the mortgage was sold,  which shows  
Ms Ls circumstances at the time,  as well as what  she stated her preferences  and priorities  
were. In 2005, Ms Ls existing mortgage  was part repayment and part interest-only, which 
was due to end in 2008. Her existing  interest rate product was coming to an end. The 
Ref: DRN91979902interest-only part of the mortgage was £34,575,  and Ms Ls planned repayment strategy to 
redeem this was her endowment policies. However, the endowment policies  were  forecast  to 
mature with a shortfall, at £24,950 in 2007.  Which would have left Ms L with around £10,000 
to find elsewhere.
The notes from the time show that Ms Ls intention  of the re-mortgage  was to address the 
expected shortfall  of the endowments, and to borrow more money to get a new car. L&G 
advised Ms L to switch  some of the interest-only mortgage to repayment, in order to address 
the shortfall, and ensure that all of the mortgage  would  be repaid by the end of the term. 
They recommended  that £24,950  stay on interest-only, which  could be repaid by the 
endowments, and the rest would be on repayment.  
The notes also show Ms L wanted to borrow £8,000 for a new car. Given Ms Ls income and 
expenditure at the time, L&G advised the mortgage was taken over a five-year  term in order 
to keep the monthly payments affordable for her. So the new mortgage ended  in 2010 as 
opposed to 2008. Whilst this meant Ms L would be paying a mortgage for two years longer 
than she was originally  intending too  she was able to borrow the extra money  that she 
wanted, and ensure the mortgage would be fully repaid by the end of the term. This was still 
before Ms L was planning  to retire.  So looking  at the information the adviser had about  
Ms Ls circumstances at the time  Im satisfied this advice was suitable.
Ive also thought carefully about whether L&G should have advised  Ms L to consolidate her 
existing unsecured debts into the mortgage. At the time of the advice, Ms L had two 
unsecured loans (£2,450 and £3,645), an overdraft  and credit card debt. The loans were on 
substantially higher interest rates,  but were due to end in 2006  and 2009.  So by 
consolidating these  into the mortgage  Ms L would have paid interest, albeit at a much lower 
rate, for a slightly longer  period. I understand  why the CMC has concerns about  advice  to 
consolidate unsecured debt into a mortgage  secured on Ms Ls property, due to the added 
level of risk involved if the mortgage goes unpaid, and the additional  period  of time that Ms L 
would have to pay interest  on these loans.  
However, in this particular  case, the terms of the unsecured loans  have not substantially 
increased, so I consider  the risk minimal  here. Also, looking  at the difference  in interest  Ms L 
was due to pay on the debts as they stood at the time of the advice, and what she would 
have paid on them as part of the mortgage, Ms L has not ended up financially  worse off as a 
result of the advice.
The CMC said that Ms L was managing  to make the monthly payments as they stood, and 
so the consolidation wasnt necessary. Whilst I agree it looks as though  Ms L was managing  
her existing commitments  switching more  of the mortgage to repayment and taking out 
extra borrowing, in line with her objectives,  would have increased  Ms Ls monthly  mortgage  
payments to more than what she was paying  before. So looking at the position Ms L would  
have been in if she hadnt consolidated these loans,  her disposable  income would have 
decreased until the loans  had been repaid. The notes show  that keeping her monthly 
payments the same  was important to Ms L, as she wanted the ability  to contribute  to 
savings. And Ive also considered the fact that Ms L didnt have a great deal of disposable 
income each month to start with. So, considering  all this  Im satisfied the advice to 
consolidate Ms Ls existing debts was suitable  for her at the time.
I understand the CMC have said Ms L could have taken further borrowing  with her existing 
lender, which  would have been  cheaper for her. But whilst this may have been an option, 
theres no guarantee Ms Ls existing lender would have offered her the further borrowing she 
Ref: DRN91979903wanted. As Ive explained, I think Ms L did have  a need to make changes to the mortgage  as 
well as just taking the additional  borrowing, so I think overall, L&Gs advice to re-mortgage 
was suitable.
The will package and legal costs
L&G have said that Ms L did not benefit  from the free legal services the lender offered at the 
time. So theyve refunded  what  she paid for this, minus the cashback she received, and the 
interest she paid on this by the fact it was added  to the mortgage.  She did still have to pay 
the legal  administrative  fee to L&G (of around  £300),  but as L&G have explained  this was 
an administration fee that Ms L would always have needed to pay to complete the work 
needed to re-mortgage. 
These costs were set out clearly to Ms L before she agreed to the re-mortgage.  So she knew 
what the associated  costs were before she agreed to them.  Overall, Im satisfied that L&Gs  
offer to refund the legal  fees paid by Ms L, plus interest is fair. So I wont be asking them  to 
refund the administration fee as well.
Ms L stated at the time of the advice that she didnt have a will. She had equity in her 
property as well as other assets, so I think it was reasonable for L&G to advise  her to take 
out a will. However,  the cost of the will would  have been set by the firm who carried this out 
for Ms L  so I cant hold L&G responsible for this. 
L&Gs own fee for enabling the wills package  was clearly set out in the documents  Ms L saw 
before she agreed  to the mortgage. And she went ahead on that basis. L&G have  said that 
the fee for the wills package shouldnt have been added  to the mortgage, and have offered 
to refund the interest  Ms L paid as a result. Considering all the circumstances, Im satisfied 
this offer is fair.
L&G have offered to pay Ms L £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by adding 
these fees to Ms Ls mortgage. Considering the circumstances, Im satisfied this is fair.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied the offer 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited have made to settle things is fair. So I direct  
them to pay Ms L the amount offered, upon  Ms Ls acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9197990