K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs C took out a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP) at the same time 
as they applied for a mortgage  in one of the banks branches. As part of this plan they both 
selected life and critical illness cover, and a PPI policy that was in Mr Ss sole name.  This 
gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly 
amount for it. This complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. In their response  to our adjudicator Mr and Mrs C questioned the cost of the 
PPI. Their total TMPP monthly cost was £55.43, £21.50 of which was for Mr Cs PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I 
have based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider  
is most  likely  in the light of the available evidence and what we know  about how Halifax 
sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were told they had to take out PPI. Halifax  hasnt got all the 
paperwork from the sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago. And I cant 
know what was said in the meeting. But based on what we know  about the banks 
sales process at the time, I think its most likely  Mr and Mrs C completed  a TMPP 
application form selecting which elements of the cover they wanted, after discussion 
with the bank. I say this as Halifax has provided  samples of the documents it used  
when selling  TMPP at this time. I cant find enough evidence to conclude  that it 
didnt follow its standard sales process here.  Also, the letter they received after the 
meeting started  Thank you for choosing Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
which suggests it was presented to them as an optional product.
I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C said. And whilst I dont doubt  
these are their honest recollections of the meeting, I have to take into account that it 
was over 15 years ago and that this might affect  what they now remember. 
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made  it clear  Mr and Mrs C had a choice 
about PPI - and they opted  to take it out for Mr C.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C, and it seems to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Mr C told us he was 
entitled to statutory sick pay but the PPI would have  paid out in addition to this and 
for up to 24 months for all accident, sickness and unemployment claims. Mr and 
Mrs C had no savings or other  insurances. 
Ref: DRN97235742They were  borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on their home.  
So the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. 
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs C if Mr C was sick, 
had an accident  or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. I dont  know  when  it made  the cost clear,  but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out 
the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of those  things. This means, overall, I dont think better information 
wouldve changed their decision.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9723574