K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) have asked her to pay 
to refurbish a car she was financing through a finance agreement  with them.
background
Mrs S took receipt of a new car in September 2015. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with PSA. When she returned the car at the end of that agreement it 
was inspected by a third party company. PSA subsequently asked Mrs S to pay them  for 
damage that they said would need  to be repaired  in order to return  the car to the contractual 
condition.
Mrs S disputed some of that damage. She said she shouldnt be charged for:
dents to the left rear door and right front door
a paint run on the bumper
PSA didnt agree. They said theyd written to Mrs S to explain the condition  that the car 
needed to be returned in and that the condition was also stipulated in the hire purchase 
agreement. They said theyd reviewed the photographs  provided by the independent 
inspector and they were persuaded that all of the damage was beyond what could  fairly  be 
considered fair wear  and tear; so they thought  the charges were still applicable.
But Mrs S disagreed and she therefore  referred  her complaint to this service  where our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  He explained that the industry guidelines, wed expect a 
business to inspect a car to at the end of a lease, were provided  by the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association.  So he reviewed the photographic evidence  of the damage 
against this standard. He thought both door dents were bigger than the allowable  10mm and 
that the paint run on the bumper was clearly evidenced. He noted that the guidelines 
prohibited any poor repair and he therefore thought the bumper condition  was beyond what 
could be considered fair wear and tear and that the charges  were  being levied reasonably.
He noted that Mrs S also complained that PSA had been harassing her for payment  of the 
bill. He explained that we couldnt  insist they ceased collection activities  and he didnt think 
PSA had been  doing anything wrong when pursuing the debt. But he did arrange  with them 
to stop collection  whilst  the complaint was in process.
Mrs S didnt agree with the adjudicators view so she asked  for an ombudsman  to provide a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN98096412Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The terms of that hire purchase agreement explain that the car should  be kept in a good 
condition and also explain  that Mrs S will be responsible for the costs  of repairs  if it isnt.
The industry guidelines that Id expect PSA to use to establish what  was a fair condition and 
what damage was beyond fair wear and tear are provided by the BVRLA.
The vehicle inspection appears to have been  carried out to that standard and by an 
independent third party. Photographs have been supplied of all of the damage that was 
identified and rulers and viewing  aids have  been added so that the extent of the damage can 
be clearly assessed.
Ive reviewed each  of the chargeable items  against  the standard and, for the same reasons 
the adjudicator  gave;  I think  PSA have  fairly  applied refurbishment charges. I note that Mrs S 
says theres never been a repair to the bumper but theres a clear circular paint drip so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say there was no sign of the damage PSA are claiming 
refurbishment for, or to ask them to take any further action.
Whilst its often the case  that businesses will be prepared to suspend  collection activities  
whilst complaints are in progress we cant insist they do so. So I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to say PSA were doing anything wrong when attempting  to collect this debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9809641