K820x#14complaint
Mrs E has complained Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund her £150  for a 
cash machine transaction she didnt make.
background
On 7 July 2018 Mrs E went  to the cash machine outside a branch of a different bank. She 
wanted to take out £50 but only £20 came out of the machine. She went into the branch and 
took out a further £30. Shortly afterwards she noticed there  was a withdrawal of £150  from 
her account  done  at the first cash  machine shed  stood at.
She went into her Halifax branch to complain. They didnt  think  thered been any fraud as 
Mrs E always had her debit card with her. They would look at this as a cash machine 
dispute. Two days later Mrs E called Halifax. She explained shed definitely not requested or 
taken out £150 so wanted to know what had happened and have the money  refunded to her. 
She did think that shed  probably pressed the 20 button rather than the 50 on her original 
transaction when  she wanted to take out £50 but was adamant  she hadnt taken out £150.
Halifax felt all the evidence showed  Mrs E must have made this transaction herself. However  
they apologised for not dealing with her complaint  properly and gave  her £50. Mrs E brought 
her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included the detailed data from the bank whose 
cash machines Mrs E had used  that day. Mrs E never didnt have her own card with her. 
This was evidenced by her making two transactions that day for £20 and £30. Thered been 
no fault with the cash  machines nor were  there  any records  that cash had been  taken back 
by the machine. He felt Mrs E had made  the transaction herself and therefore couldnt  ask 
Halifax to refund her.
Mrs E didnt agree with this outcome. Shes  asked  an ombudsman to make  a decision on her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent when  looking  after their card and PIN but 
nothing that Ive seen that would have an impact on how Im considering  this case.  So when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  of the three cash machine 
transactions themselves. This evidence has shown:
There were  three cash machine withdrawals made with Mrs Es genuine card;
Two of these were  done at the outside  machine for £20 and £150  at 12:21 and 12:22;
Ref: DRN94569992The third was for £30 and carried out inside the branch at 12:23;
No faults were reported  by other  cash machine users with those two machines;
The other banks  evidence shows the cash that was dispensed for the first two 
transactions (2 x £10 for the first, 5 x £20 and 5 x £10 for the second) and for the 
transactions that followed when Mrs E moved  inside;
There was no more  cash  held in the reject  bin of the cash machine after the 
transaction for £150  than before. This means  that the cash  wasnt ejected and taken 
back by the cash  machine;  
Mrs E always had her genuine  card with her and this, along with the PIN, was used  
to authenticate all three  withdrawals.
I know Mrs E is adamant she didnt  try to withdraw £150. Its always  difficult  to suggest 
alternative scenarios  as I sound as if I may be doubting Mrs Es evidence. Im sorry about 
this as I know how consistent shes been. But I can see no other explanation than what  Im 
going to suggest.
Ive noted Mrs E thought shed originally asked  the machine to give her £50 but got £20. She 
subsequently thought  she may have pressed the wrong button as the sun was shining on the 
cash machine display. This is easily done.  I think this is what  happened as Mrs E got £20 
and her account was debited  £20.
So I think what may have  happened is Mrs E tried a further transaction  at the same machine 
outside the branch. Instead  of asking for £50, she asked for £150. She may then have got 
flustered. She hadnt intended on doing  this and ended up going to use a machine inside. 
However she hadnt cancelled the transaction and rather  walked  away without taking her 
money.
Unfortunately if the cash was dispensed, as I think it was here as the result of a genuine 
transaction, and Mrs E just walked away without taking it, then it wouldnt be appropriate to 
refund her. There  were people using the external cash machine within a minute of Mrs E 
walking away. Theres no way of knowing but they may have benefitted from an unexpected 
windfall. I know Mrs E will think this is harsh but unfortunately I cant  blame  Halifax  for this 
happening.
I know Mrs E believes CCTV  evidence would  be able to confirm  exactly what  happened and 
its unfortunate this doesnt exist. I agree. But its really not unusual for CCTV evidence  to be 
wiped on a regular  basis. Overall I think theres  enough  evidence here for me to conclude  
that Mrs E made the transaction at the cash machine.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Es complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax.
Ref: DRN94569993Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9456999