K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about a car she purchased  with finance provided  by N.I.I.B. Group Limited 
(trading as Northridge).
background
In October  2016 Miss A entered a hire purchase  agreement with Northridge  for a used car. 
The car was about four years old and had been driven over 51,000  miles.  Immediately she 
reported a couple of minor faults, which were repaired. But over the following weeks  and 
months, she reported a number of other  faults,  some of which were serious, and at one point 
the car broke  down. The car was in the garage a total of nine times  to be repaired.  The 
repairs and courtesy cars were provided free of charge. But after so many  problems, she 
wanted to reject the car. So in September  2017  she brought  a complaint to our Service   the 
first of two.
One of our investigators  considered that complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said (in 
October 2017) that as the faults  had all been  repaired at no cost to Miss A, and the car had 
since passed its MOT test, it wouldnt  be fair to allow her to reject the car now.  Also,  
Northridge had told her that she could sell the car, and it had reduced the settlement figure  
by over £2,300  as a gesture of good will, which the investigator thought was fair. Miss A did 
not agree  with that decision, but she did not ask for an ombudsmans  decision either, and so 
that complaint  was closed.
In September  2018 Miss A returned  to our Service and complained about new faults with the 
car which had happened  since the last complaint. My colleagues treated this as a new 
complaint, and that second complaint is the one I am dealing with here.  Meanwhile,  
Northridge offered to further reduce  the settlement figure as a gesture of good will (without 
admitting liability). Instead Miss A voluntarily terminated the agreement,  and the car was sold 
at auction. She would like to be put in the position  she would have been in if shed been 
allowed to reject the car.
Another investigator considered this complaint. At first he didnt uphold it, because  there  was 
an independent report (commissioned  by the auction house in January 2019) saying that the 
car was in good  condition, and he had seen no evidence that the new faults  had been  
present at the point of sale. But then Miss A provided more evidence, which changed the 
investigators mind, and so he upheld this complaint after all. He found  that the new faults   
involving the gear box and the steering  had been present at the point of sale,  and that the 
auction houses report was less persuasive than hed originally thought.  He recommended  
that Northridge refund Miss As deposit and ten percent of the monthly payments shed 
made since, and remove  the hire purchase agreement from her credit file.
Northridge did not accept  that decision. It said that the report was reliable evidence, and that 
Miss A had driven the car over 22,700 miles in the last two years, which  suggested that there 
had been nothing wrong with the gear box. There was no evidence  that there had been 
anything wrong  with the gearbox in 2016, and Miss A had conceded that the steering fault had 
only developed  as recently as September 2018. The law placed the burden of proof on Miss A 
to show that the car was defective when it was sold. In 2017  the first investigator had found that 
there had been  nothing  wrong with the car, and Northridge asked what had changed to make 
the second investigator reach a different conclusion. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows. (I have added two corrections  in footnotes.)
Ref: DRN94814012my provisional findings
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I have not reconsidered the original  complaint. That complaint was closed in 2017, 
because Miss A did not ask for an ombudsmans decision at the time. So I dont think it 
would be fair of me to re-open that matter now (although I have still read about it). Instead, 
I have confined myself to considering what has happened since  then, and the new faults 
which Miss A raised when  she brought this new complaint in late 2018.
It is clear that this second complaint is about new issues which have  arisen since the first 
complaint was resolved in October  2017. New evidence has been presented, which  did not exist 
back then. So there is no reason  why I should not consider this complaint on its merits. No final 
decision was issued  in the original complaint, and our Service is entitled to consider a complaint 
about new issues, and also to reach  different conclusions in the light of new evidence.
Before I come to that, I shall summarise  the relevant law. The Consumer Rights Act 2015  requires 
goods which are sold commercially to be of satisfactory quality. If the car had faults  when it was 
sold, then Northridge is liable to Miss A for those faults  but it is not liable for any faults which  
were not present or developing  at the time, but which only occurred later on. Section 19 of the Act 
puts the burden of proof on Miss A to show that any faults which became apparent  more  than six 
months after she bought the car were  present or developing at the point of sale.  (In this decision 
I am using  the words  bought and sale as shorthand  for when  Miss A acquired  possession of the 
car under the hire purchase agreement in 2016,  although she never actually owned  it.)
the evidence initially provided
When Miss A first brought this second  complaint to our Service, the evidence  she provided  
then did not persuade our investigator  that the new faults could be traced back to 2016. This 
evidence was mainly  phone calls shed had with the dealership, and text messages,  about 
one of the first repairs which were  carried out, back in November 2016.
Ive seen an invoice  for that repair, which describes the reported  fault as the car jerking  and 
jumping when it pulls away. The issue was described by Northridge in its original final 
response letter (dated 4 September  2017)  as follows:
A judder/jerking on acceleration issue was addressed.  This was rectified  following a 
transmission control module  software update.
That fault did not recur by the time the original complaint was resolved, and so I infer that the 
problem was accurately  diagnosed  it was the software, and not the hardware which was 
faulty. It is not evidence  which supports her claim that the gears are still faulty as a result of 
the original defect not being repaired properly. It could be an entirely different fault.
I have listened  to the call recordings Miss A has provided. The only one which contains any 
material information is a call which Im told was made in October  2018,  in which  Miss A was 
told that a bulletin  had been circulated about harsh gear changes,  and that this would 
require some further work on the car. The dealership confirmed that this was not wear and 
Ref: DRN94814013tear but an issue that would have been present all along, so I agree that this is a fault which 
was present at the point of sale. But Miss A agreed to have that repaired (at no cost to her), 
so I cant agree that this would be a reason to let her reject the car.
In March 2019 the investigator decided (rightly, in my opinion) that the evidence hed seen 
was not enough to prove Miss As case.  In response  to that decision,  Miss A provided further 
evidence, and this is what I have referred to above  as the new evidence.
the new evidence
The new evidence included a letter (dated 13 March 2019) from the garage which  had fixed 
the gearbox faults in November 2016 and in October 2018.1 It says that the diagnostic  code 
was the same in both instances: PO895  Shift time too short   gear fault. It concluded that 
the first fault had been present at the point of sale. It did not offer any opinion about the 
second fault. That letter does not change my mind  these faults  were  present at the point of 
sale, but Miss A accepted repairs both times, and didnt ask to reject the car instead. 
Although the same  fault code came  up both times, that doesnt necessarily mean that the 
first fault wasnt repaired properly. The fault described in the bulletin might have been some 
other problem.
Miss A sent us a photo, dated May 2017,  of a warning light on the dashboard saying 
gearbox fault. This is not really new evidence  it was available to her during the original 
complaint. But Ive still considered it, in case its relevant to the new fault. This photo might  
mean that the original repair in November 2016 was not successful, or it might  be evidence  
of a new and separate  fault.  Whichever is the case,  it was repaired in October 2018. The 
March 2019 letter from the garage which fixed the gearbox says that this was the last time 
they repaired the car,2 so I infer that the fault did not recur again.
Miss A also sent us a letter from the dealerships solicitors, dated 16 October 2017. That 
pre-dates the first investigators decision by 11 days,  so again its not new.  I have  still read it 
(that is to say, she only sent us the first page, so Ive read that),  but it does not assist her. It 
mentions the car jumping  and jerking,  and being  taken  back  to the garage to have this issue 
fixed. Miss A told us that this information had never been provided to us before. But we knew 
about this during the original complaint  as I have said already, its referred  to in the 
November 2016  invoice and Northridges September  2017  final response letter. Both of 
these documents  are in our original  case  file. So the first investigator knew all about it. She 
rejected that complaint, and I agree with her decision.
Miss A sent us a list of diagnosed faults,  provided to her by the dealership,  which lists the 
faults by the mileage at the time of each  fault. One of the faults is about the gears.  The 
mileage is unknown, so this doesnt  help me. On balance, I think it must be one of the two 
faults Ive already described.
She also provided an email, dated  20 November 2017, from the dealership. It mostly 
consists of the following  quote from the workshop manual for the car:
Regardless of HDC selection, the automatic hill start assist function will aid smooth 
transition from foot brake  release to moving  away, on all ascents above a 5% gradient.  
It does this by holding driver generated  brake pressure for a short period  of time (2-3 
1 In fact this was not that garage  but another garage which gave Miss A a second opinion.
2 In fact this was the last time they saw the car; they never  repaired it.
Ref: DRN94814014seconds) and then balancing  brake torque with the propulsion torque generated when  
the accelerator pedal  is applied, to ensure the vehicle does not roll backwards.
(The dealership summarised  this by suggesting that Miss A press the brake harder.)  It might  
have been helpful if this information had been included  in the owners  handbook,  but the fact 
that it is described in the workshop manual leads me to think  that what  is being  described 
here is not a fault.
In July 2018 the steering  wheel fell off, and the car had to be recovered by the AA. The AA 
took it to the dealership, where it was repaired. I have seen an invoice which  says a loose 
bolt on the steering  wheel was tightened. But there is no evidence that the bolt was already  
loose in 2016. So I think it was probably wear and tear. Miss A was not charged for this (the 
invoice is for £0.00).
I therefore have  no reason  to doubt  the report. Apart  from some minor scratches, which  were  
repaired for less than £50, the car was found to be in good condition.
So my provisional decision is that I currently do not intend to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  findings
Northridge did not reply  to my provisional decision.  Miss A objected  to it. She denied that the 
car had been  repaired  in October 2018.  She said it was misleading  to say that the repairs  
had been done at no cost to her, because they had been carried  out under warranty,  and 
she had paid for the warranty.  She provided  a technical bulletin about  the gears, dated 
October 2015, a year before  she bought  the car. She said she had tried to reject the car in 
July 2017, but had not been  allowed to, so it wasnt really true that she had accepted  repairs  
 she had only allowed  them to be done under sufferance. She said the auction  houses 
report was unpersuasive,  because  the author had only carried  out a visual inspection of the 
exterior of the car, and had not carried out a full mechanical inspection.
(She also corrected a factual error  about  the identity  of the garage  which  wrote the March  
2019 letter,  which I have  noted in my footnotes  above.)
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thought the car had been  repaired in October 2018 because in Miss As recording of the 
phone call she made in that month,  she agreed  to have  the fault fixed. I have listened to that 
call again to make sure of what was said. It is a call to the same garage which had carried  
out the earlier repairs (this is mentioned  in the call). The garage told her that there were no 
relevant fault codes,  but a technical bulletin had recommended  some adaptations to the 
gears, which would take one and a half hours to do. The garage said this wouldnt normally  
be covered by her warranty, but because of the earlier issues  it would cover the cost. Four 
minutes and 14 seconds  into the call, Miss A agreed for this work to be done.
The March  2019  letter from the other garage  says that the final time the car was brought to it 
was on 22 October 2018. It had been  collected from the first garage  for a second opinion.  
The phone call I have just described  was on 30 October. So after getting a second opinion, 
Miss A agreed to take the car back  to the original  garage to be repaired for free. I hadnt 
been told that she had changed  her mind, but if she did, that wouldnt necessarily mean  it 
Ref: DRN94814015would be fair of me to say that Northridge should now refund  her as if she had rejected the 
car. I think  that having agreed (whether contractually or not) to have the car repaired, it 
would be fair and reasonable to allow the garage  to carry out that repair.
One of the documents  Miss A sent us in response to my provisional decision was about the repair  
in November 2016. It is entitled Technicians Write  Up. In red ink and in capital letters the 
technician has written  NOT COVERED  BY WARRANTY. That is also what she was told in the 
October 2018 phone  call. But both repairs were still done or offered  for free. There  is no evidence  
that the repair which was agreed to in October  2018 would not have been  successful.  The garage 
which gave Miss A a second opinion has not suggested that the fault could not be fixed.
I have not changed my mind about what I said in my provisional decision that the issue  with 
the gears in October 2018 may not be a recurrence of the same fault which  was dealt with in 
November 2016.  There is no evidence of any work being done on the gears between  those  
times  a period of almost  two years. The repair in 2018 was offered as a result of it being 
recommended in the recent bulletin.
However, the 2015 bulletin is new evidence,  and as it pre-dates the sale of the car to Miss A, 
I think that the gears should have been repaired before the car was sold to her. That would 
have avoided the need to take the car back to the garage in November  2016.  I have taken  
into account the fact that she had a courtesy car at the time,  but I still think  that some  
compensation is due to her for her inconvenience.  I think £300 is fair.
I know that Miss A says that she tried to reject the car in 2017, but I am not going to consider 
what happened before  her original complaint was closed in October of that year.  I am only 
considering the issues  with gears  (and the steering) which have happened since then.
I accept Miss As point  that the auction  houses report was not a full mechanical inspection.  It 
was just an external  visual inspection, and (according to Northridge)  a test drive. It doesnt  
prove that there  was nothing wrong  with the gear box. Nevertheless, this does not change  
my view that the free repair which was proposed and agreed to in October 2018 was an 
adequate remedy,  and that it would  not be fair to say now that Miss A, on changing her mind,  
should have been allowed to reject  the car instead.  I am not satisfied that this was a 
recurrence of the original fault which was dealt with in 2016.
my final decision
So my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  N.I.I.B. Group Limited to 
pay Miss A £300 for her inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2020. If she accepts  it, it will be binding on both 
parties and enforceable in court under paragraph  16 of Schedule 17 to the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000. If she does not accept it, then it will not bind the parties.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9481401