K820x#14complaint
Ms H isnt happy with the amount of compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to 
settle her complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a store 
card ending. 
In this case it has been agreed that AXA, as the insurer, take responsibility for the complaint. 
So Ill be referring  to AXA throughout  my decision.  
background
Ms H took out a PPI policy alongside  a store  card in 1984. Ms A made a complaint that the 
PPI policy  had been mis-sold. AXA agreed the PPI was mis-sold  and calculated  how much  it 
owed Ms H in compensation. 
AXA said it doesnt have  statement data for Ms Hs store card account. And it only has basic  
computer records about the account.  AXA explained it used this information  to try and put 
Ms H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt had PPI on the account.
Its basic records show that Ms H was charged  a total of £25.36 in PPI premiums  over the life 
time she held the policy. 
It used this information to work out how much  Ms H may have been charged because of PPI. 
It calculated that Ms H paid £25.36 in PPI premiums and it assumed those PPI premiums 
caused her to be charged £17.68 in card interest.  It then offered Ms H an additional £37.56  
(after tax)  to compensate her for the time she was out of pocket. 
So AXAs total offer of compensation  came to £80.60, after tax. 
Ms H isnt happy with AXAs records and she thinks she paid more  towards  PPI than AXA 
has worked out.
Our adjudicator looked at what AXA had offered and thought that its offer was fair.
As Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion and as the complaint hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has already  agreed to settle  Ms Hs PPI mis-sale complaint. So I wont be looking at 
how the policy came to be sold  because thats not in dispute. 
In this decision I will only be considering whether  the approach AXA has taken to 
compensate Ms H in this case  is fair. And Im sorry to disappoint  Ms H but I think it is. Ill 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN92177362what is PPI and how is it charged
PPI is an insurance policy  which was sold alongside certain types  of credit.  It normally  
covered part or all of a consumers monthly  repayments towards  the credit for a pre-agreed  
period if they were  out of work.
For a store  card, the PPIs cost is defined by the outstanding balance that is on the store 
card. In Ms Hs case it was likely  to be around 66p for every £100  of the outstanding 
balance. So if Ms H had an outstanding  balance  on her store  card of £200 then Ms H would 
be charged £1.32 for PPI that month. But if the store  card wasnt being used and there  
wasnt a balance, then no PPI would be charged  that month. 
our approach to compensation  
When a business  agrees  to settle  a PPI complaint Id expect  it to, as far as is possible, put 
the consumer  in the position theyd be in now had they not taken the PPI policy.  
As far as is possible  is important to highlight here, since theres  no way of knowing exactly 
what an account may have looked  like if it didnt  have  PPI attached. But Id expect a 
business to use what information it does have  and take a fair approach.  Its especially  
difficult in complaints like Ms Hs  where there is very limited information.  
With a PPI policy attached to a store card, Id expect a business  to refund any overpayments  
a consumer made on the store card because of PPI (typically  PPI premiums and the 
associated interest charged  on those  PPI premiums), any fees/charges  directly  caused by 
the PPI and additional compensation set at either 15% (up until 1993) or 8% simple  (after 
1993)  to compensate a consumer if they have been out of pocket. 
the evidence available  in this case
Its understandable  that AXA doesnt  have full information and records  (including  statements)  
about Ms Hs account going all the way back to 1984. The store  card and PPI policy  were  
taken out a very long time ago and businesses arent expected to keep records indefinitely. 
Ms H has provided some  statements from the later years she held the card and the policy  
but again, and understandably, Ms H doesnt  have all the records  going all the way back. 
But AXA, importantly, has basic computer records about Ms Hs account.  Ive seen a copy of 
the computer  records  and I have no reason to doubt that these are genuine.
The basic  records show the account number of the card and some  details about the PPI 
policy. 
It also has a section called Lifetime data. Within  this section  it details the total amount of 
spending over the lifetime  of the card, the total amount  of interest  charged  to the card and 
the total amount charged for PPI. For PPI it says £25.36. This shows  that Ms H was only 
ever charged £25.36  in PPI premiums over the lifetime of the policy.
Ref: DRN92177363the approach  AXA has taken using  this information
AXA didnt know how Ms H used  her card on a month by month  basis.  That is to say it didnt 
know exactly what Ms H spent and when  and what she was charged in PPI premiums 
each month  over the duration of the policy, or if she was not charged  anything at all in some 
months. But it had enough information to be able to work  out a fair offer.  And Ill explain how.
As AXA knew the total amount Ms H was ever charged in PPI premiums  (£25.36) it could 
use this amount to calculate the approximate  interest that the PPI premiums  attracted 
throughout the life time of the policy. It worked  out what the average monthly  premium  would 
have been over the possible  maximum  duration  of the policy  and therefore what the 
approximate interest on those monthly premiums would be.
In the absence of full statement data covering  the whole period the policy  was in place I think  
the method AXA has used  is fair.  
So it calculated that Ms H paid £25.36 in PPI premiums (as it knows  she did) and it has 
calculated that Ms H was likely charged  £17.68  in card interest because of the PPI 
premiums. 
And it has offered  Ms H some additional compensation for the time she has been  out of 
pocket of this money.
Ms Hs concern that she spent a lot on her store card
I can see Ms H took the time to provide as much  information as she could, including 
providing statements  showing  her spend in the later years she held the card,  to show her 
spending pattern  on her card. Ms H considers this shows she likely spent more on her card 
in the duration  she had the policy and estimates  her compensation should be around £200. 
While Ms H has provided some statements  the full statements arent  available  for the 
whole period. So it isnt known how the card was used from 1984 until 1992  and what was 
spent and when  or what the balance was each month,  or what  was repaid each month.  
But as explained  above, AXA has the records of the total ever spent on the card and the 
total that she was ever charged for PPI over the lifetime she held the policy. And as Ive said, 
I have no reason to doubt these records.
summary
Overall, AXA knew  what Ms H was charged  for PPI over the lifetime she held the policy and 
it has used this information to work out what she was likely charged in associated  interest on 
those premiums. And it offered some additional compensation for the time Ms H has been  
out of pocket of this money.
In Ms Hs case, its offer of compensation is fair and in line with what  Id expect to see and as 
far as is possible it puts Ms H in the position  as if she had never taken PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN92177364AXA France  IARD has calculated Ms Hs offer fairly. And it doesnt  need to do anything 
further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9217736