K821x#15complaint
Through a claims management  company (CMC), Ms C has complained about fees and 
charges added to her mortgage account.  The complaint is against  Pepper (UK) Limited  
(trading as Engage  Credit), which  administered  the account on behalf of the business which 
owned the mortgage. It covers the period September 2015 to November 2019,  when 
ownership of the mortgage was transferred to another business and Peppers administration  
of the account  ceased.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Furthermore, our decisions are published, so I have to ensure that nothing in this decision 
leads to Ms C being identified.  Because of this, I will not set out the full details of her 
circumstances, or the timeline of events; the investigator has set out in detail whats 
happened in her letter dated 4 December 2020.  Both parties have had a copy of that letter, 
so theres no need for me to repeat all the details here.
Briefly, the mortgage was originally taken out on 22 July 2005. I havent seen a copy of the 
original mortgage  offer, so I dont know how much was originally advanced.  The last annual  
statement on file, from 2017, shows an outstanding  balance of about £68,000, of which  
about £24,000 is on an interest-only  basis, with the remainder on a capital and interest 
repayment basis. The mortgage was taken out over a term of 25 years and so has about  
nine-and-a-half years remaining on the term. The mortgage was transferred to an 
unregulated business in September 2015,  and Pepper (which is regulated) was appointed to 
administer the account until the account  was sold again in November 2019.
Unfortunately Ms C has experienced financial difficulties throughout the period Pepper was 
dealing with the mortgage account. Fees and charges were added to the account,  in 
accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions.
In 2018 Ms C, through a CMC, complained about the fees and charges. Pepper  refunded  a 
modest amount  of charges  (£183.50) as a gesture of goodwill. Ms C didnt accept  this and 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator looked at the complaint and thought  it should be upheld. She noted Ms Cs 
circumstances and found that there were a number of factors  which made Ms C very 
vulnerable. In the circumstances,  the investigator  didnt think Pepper had done enough to 
Ref: DRN98982012help Ms C. She asked  Pepper to refund all fees and charges applied to the account  between 
September 2015 and November 2019, and to pay compensation of £500.
Ms C accepted the investigators findings,  but Pepper did not. It said that it had done what it 
could to help Ms C, but ultimately she wasnt able to maintain any payment arrangement.  
Pepper maintained it had acted in line with the regulators  requirements in respect of 
Treating Customers Fairly (TCF)  and so didnt think it had done anything  wrong. Pepper also 
didnt think a payment  of £500 for trouble and upset was justified.
Pepper argues  that it considers the investigators stance on TCF is to keep Ms C in a home 
she cant afford, and that her circumstances show that staying in the property was not the 
best option for her. Pepper also says that the first conversation it had with Ms C was on 
1 December 2015 (shortly after Pepper  took over administration  of the account) and that it 
asked Ms C for documentation about  her income  and other relevant factors,  which  she didnt 
provide. Pepper  says it wasnt given the opportunity to help Ms C, due to her lack of 
response.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I will not provide any details of Ms Cs circumstances, in order  to preserve 
her privacy  and anonymity. But I have taken note of everything shes  said about  her 
situation, and Ive also read Peppers contact notes and documents  provided to us.
The crux of this complaint is whether or not the fees and charges that have been applied to 
the account were  applied  fairly, given Ms Cs circumstances.
The starting point  is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. 
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks to be short-term and capable  of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must  also look at other  ways  to help, such  
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period  of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable.  
In her letter dated 4 December  2020 the investigator set out full details of what had 
happened, the contact  between Ms C and Pepper  and the implications of this in relation to 
the mortgage. The timeline  of events isnt in dispute.
Having reviewed the contact notes, Im not persuaded that there was sufficient  consideration 
of Ms Cs circumstances by Pepper  to justify the action Pepper took (including possession  
Ref: DRN98982013proceedings) and in applying fees and charges to the account.  As I said above, Im not going 
to list each and every occasion  when a payment arrangement was proposed, declined, 
agreed to or breached,  or discuss Ms Cs personal circumstances. 
But I think it ought to have been apparent to Pepper that Ms C was in a very precarious 
position. Given this, the addition  of fees and charges to the account,  including  legal fees, on 
which interest would accrue, resulting in a higher  overall debt, was not, in my view, fair or 
reasonable. Although I acknowledge Peppers entitlement to receive  payment, I dont think, 
in this specific case, legal action was the most appropriate way to achieve that.
In the circumstances, I am upholding this complaint. I require  Pepper  to refund back to the 
account all fees and charges applied during the period  the account was administered by 
Pepper. Im satisfied that Ms C was caused distress and upset because  of the way the 
account was administered, and I award  compensation of £500 for this.
This is a finely balanced case; there  is no doubt Ms Cs situation was very difficult 
throughout the period  in question  and at times  was very grave indeed. I think  her situation 
was at the furthest end of the scale of financial  difficulties, in addition to which Ms C was 
also vulnerable  due to her personal circumstances. This, in my opinion,  is a unique situation  
which falls outside  the general parameters of the types of financial difficulties cases we 
generally see. This is reflected  in the redress.
But I also take on board  Peppers  comments about  Ms C being  in a property she cannot 
afford. This is a very modest property,  and the mortgage is not, by todays standards,  a large 
one. Yet Ms C has struggled for many years to maintain regular payments towards it. 
For this situation  to continue (albeit with a different business) for another nine years until the 
mortgage term ends  may be an intolerable strain on Ms C. So I would urge her to think  about 
whether or not keeping the mortgage  going  is in her best interests.
I say this with all good intentions, and I mean no offence to Ms C, but I think  it would help her 
to take advice from a specialist  debt advisory service, such as StepChange, Citizens  Advice 
or Shelter  about  her long-term prospects of being able to stay in the property. Its clear that 
trying to keep up with the mortgage has caused Ms C distress over a long period of time.  I 
think its likely that this hasnt helped with her other personal circumstances, which  impact on 
her daily life and well-being.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement  I order Pepper (UK) Limited to refund all fees and charges (and to 
remove any interest applied thereon)  during the period September  2015 to November 2019  
when it was administering this mortgage  account.  I also direct Pepper  (UK) Limited to pay 
Ms C compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
Jan OLeary
Ref: DRN98982014Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9898201