K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains, through  a claims management  company (CMC), that TS CAPITAL  
LIMITED (TSCL)  gave her unsuitable investment  advice.
background
In 2014 Ms H opened a portfolio account with TSCL  which included  an advisory brokerage 
service allowing it to provide advice  on investments.  It is its advice to invest  in various 
equities which is at issue in this complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  I set out inconsistencies in the information that TSCL  had obtained about 
Ms H which I thought it needed  to clarify.  I wasnt  satisfied that she was correctly  identified 
as a medium risk investor based on some of the information she had provided, and I thought  
that redress should be calculated by comparing the investments TSCL had advised Ms H to 
make with our usual benchmark for a low/cautious risk investor. A copy of my provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information for me to 
consider before making a final decision. TSCL said it was disappointed  in my decision and 
had difficulty understanding some  of my findings.  It made the following key points:
It didnt ignore information and pick and choose  what information it wanted  to rely 
upon.
Ms H did have  a portfolio of existing equity investments, understood high risk shares  
and was a medium  risk investor.
At the time of opening the account with TSCL she had an existing account with 
another firm trading  CFD which are high-risk execution-only trades so understood 
what high-risk was.
She never received advice about  any high-risk shares and all her investments with 
TSCL were with FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 shares.
Ms H requested advisory broking as this is what she was familiar  with and she had 
five to ten years of experience of markets in general and of high-risk investments and 
this was checked at the time of completing the documentation.
TSCL referred to its terms and conditions  which  Ms H had agreed to when  she opened the 
account. It referred to clauses dealing with its liability  to clients  which,  in short, stated it 
wasnt responsible  for loss suffered  by Ms H unless this was the result  of fraud, deceit or 
negligence.
TSCL said that Ms H had continued to trade with it after the complaint was put forward  by 
the CMC  and suggested that this meant she wasnt unhappy with the service it had provided.
TSCL also provided  notes of calls between it and Ms H when it had advised  her about 
certain trades. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91388122I have taken account of the points raised  by TSCL in response to my provisional decision,  
but I am not going to change my findings. I still think  this complaint should be upheld  for the 
reasons I explained.  
TSCL has said that it had difficulty understanding some of my findings but has not explained 
which findings or why it had difficulty. Im satisfied  that my findings were  clear and given 
TSCL hasnt provided any specific example where  they werent able to understand what  I 
was saying I will comment no further on this.
TSCL has provided an excerpt  from another decision of our service  in which the ombudsman  
explained, where poor performance was at the heart of the complaint, that a 
recommendation producing a poor outcome isnt a basis for upholding a complaint.  I think  it 
important to make clear that each complaint is based on its own merits. But I agree  that poor 
performance of an investment  of itself - isnt a basis  for upholding  a complaint.
But that isnt the basis on which I have upheld  this complaint. I have upheld it because Im 
not satisfied, on a balance of probabilities, that TSCL gave suitable advice. This is largely 
because Im not persuaded that Ms M was a medium risk investor and because Im not 
satisfied that TSCL obtained the information it needed to be able to properly assess  
suitability such that it should have provided  any advice to her. 
TSCL has referred to its terms and conditions  and I have noted what  it has said.  But I am not 
limited to upholding a complaint and awarding redress only where there has been a breach 
of the terms and conditions - I also take account  of the relevant law and rules and best 
industry practice, although I am not bound by any of these.  In this case though  I think TSCL 
failed to assess suitability  as it shouldve done  and in accordance with what the regulator 
requires.
TSCL has said it didnt  ignore information  and pick and choose what it relied  upon.  But I set 
out clearly in my provisional decision the information  that TSCL  were given that called into 
question whether Ms H was a medium risk investor and also her experience  and knowledge 
of equity investment.  
TSCL has not made any comment  on the specific information I identified.  Instead it simply 
repeats and relies  upon those bits of information  which supports it treating her as a medium 
risk investor who understood equities.
So, for example,  TSCL  has again referred  to Ms H having five to ten years of experience in 
markets in general and of high-risk investments, as recorded in the Fact Find/Risk 
Assessment Document (the fact find). The issue with this is that it isnt consistent  with what 
is shown in the Agreement and Application Booklet (the booklet) as I pointed out in my 
provisional decision. The booklet  shows that Ms H only had one to five years  of experience 
in equities, and less than one years of experience in fixed  interest, funds  and alternative  
investments. 
This is an example  of what  I was referring  to when I said that TSCL  was picking and 
choosing what information it wanted  to rely upon.  It has relied  on what was said in one 
document and ignored what was said in another. 
A firm is entitled to rely on information  provided  by a client  unless it is aware  the information  
is inaccurate or incomplete.  Information cannot be considered accurate or complete when a 
firm has conflicting information  from a client. In that situation it is reasonable to expect it to 
Ref: DRN91388123clarify the information.  TSCL has said that it checked Ms H had five to ten experience  at the 
time. But there is no evidence that it did so, and Im not persuaded this was checked. If it 
had been, I think  it is more likely than not there wouldve been some evidence  of this such as 
the information being amended in the booklet.  
But, as I have said, this is only one example of where I consider the information it had was 
such that it needed to clarify what Ms H had said. TSCL relies on Ms H having  selected 
medium risk from a choice of low, medium and high.  Based on this it argues that it did 
nothing wrong  in advising her to invest  in equities.
But before providing  advice  a firm is required  to get such  information  as is necessary for it to 
understand essential facts about the client including their attitude to risk. It isnt enough  for 
Ms H to have simply picked medium risk. If it was then she could equally have identified 
herself as a high-risk investor  and on TSCLs argument it would have been entitled to then 
recommend high risk investments to her. It needed  to do more  than just get Ms H to pick a 
risk category.
The fact find included various questions, the answers to which provided relevant information 
about Ms H and her likely attitude  to risk. I can see no point in those questions being put in 
the first place if it wasnt to help determine  the risk Ms H was prepared  to take. And having  
been provided with the answers  to the questions I think  TSCL  shouldve taken account of 
these. Im not satisfied  it did so, and it has not provided any response to what  I said in my 
provisional decision about those answers not supporting  Ms H being  a medium risk investor 
with a real understanding of equity investment.
I have considered the fact Ms H had traded before, but the trade history I have seen shows  
limited trading under the advisory brokerage service  she had with another firm. I dont  think 
this by itself provides evidence of any great understanding of equities on her part and the 
fact that Ms H had previously used an advisory brokerage service  didnt  mean TSCL was 
entitled to assume  she understood equity  investment and was a medium risk investor.  It 
needed to make its own assessment of her risk appetite, knowledge and understanding  
based on information she provided. 
I acknowledge what TSCL  has said about Ms H having an account trading CFD with another  
firm. But I have seen no evidence of this, and I have no way of knowing if this account was 
appropriate and what her understanding was of such trades. Im not satisfied that this 
changes my findings about the information that TSCL obtained from Ms H and what this 
meant in terms of the service it provided  to her.
I note what TSCL has said about providing  advice  about FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 shares, 
which generally wouldnt be considered high risk. But I have not suggested that Ms H was 
advised to invest  in high risk shares. FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 shares  were  suitable for a 
medium risk investor in accordance with what is set out in the fact find, which specifies that 
medium risk includes investment in such shares. 
The point is Im not satisfied that TSCL shouldve treated  Ms H as a medium risk investor, as 
I think I made clear in my provisional decision. In the fact find low risk is stated to include 
gilts, bonds, investment trust and unit trusts - not FSTE 100 or FTSE 250 shares.
I also acknowledge that Ms H has continued  to trade  with TSCL but that doesnt change the 
information that TSCL had at the time it started providing a service to Ms H and doesnt 
mean she shouldve  been treated as a medium risk investor. It may be the case  that Ms H is 
Ref: DRN91388124now a medium risk investor with a better  understanding of equity investment but if that is the 
case it doesnt mean she was a medium  risk investor in the period of time the subject of this 
complaint. 
What TSCL  should do to put things right 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms H 
as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I think Ms H would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Ms H's circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
What should TSCL do? 
To compensate Ms H fairly,  TSCL  must:
Compare the performance of Ms H's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
TSCL should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Each advised investment
mixedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of each 
investmentThe date of 
the sale of the 
investment  or 
the date of 
settlement if 
the investment 
still exists8% simple per 
year from date 
of sale - for any 
investments 
that were sold - 
to date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date a particular investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily sold on 
the open market),  it may be difficult to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided  Ms H agrees to TSCL taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for TSCL  to take ownership, 
then it may request  an undertaking  from Ms H that she repays  to TSCL any amount she may 
receive from the investment in future. 
Ref: DRN91388125Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  TSCL should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Ms H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Ms H's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably  put Ms H into that position. It does not mean  that Ms H 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable  compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Ms H could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my attached  
provisional decision. TS CAPITAL LIMITED  must calculate redress  as I have set out above 
and pay this to Ms H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91388126COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms H complains, through a claims  management company (CMC), that TS CAPITAL LIMITED (TSCL) 
gave her unsuitable investment advice.
background
In 2014 Ms H opened a portfolio account with TSCL  which  allowed it to provide advice  on 
investments, and for her to execute  her own trades.
TSCL didnt  uphold  the complaint. In short it said that it established an advisory portfolio  account  
based on the information Ms H had provided which entitled  it to make investment recommendations 
and provide investment  advice. It said that it also agreed to execute  orders given by Ms H on an 
execution only basis. It said that it had complied with its terms and conditions  and the relevant  rules in 
the operation  of the account.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  He said that the information he had seen painted a 
confusing picture of Ms Hs attitude to risk. He said it is clear Ms H thought  she understood high-risk 
investments but that her answers to some of the questions  indicated someone who wasnt prepared 
to take any risk.
The investigator thought that TSCL  shouldve asked Ms H further questions  to try and establish  her 
true attitude  to risk. He said he wasnt satisfied that she shouldve been advised  to invest directly in 
shares. 
He said some  of the transactions  were  carried  out on an execution only basis and he didnt think  
TSCL was responsible  for those. But for those  transactions it had advised  her on he thought it should  
pay redress  based on comparison between the recommended investments and the average rate from 
fixed-rate bonds on the basis Ms H didnt  want to risk her capital.
TSCL didnt  agree with the investigator. It said initially that it had listened  to calls Ms H had made 
when carrying out various transactions before lockdown due to the Covid-19  pandemic and would 
listen to the remainder after lockdown  and provide  a spreadsheet to us. It said she had not been 
pressured into making any trade.
It said the assumptions made by the investigator in his opinion were wrong.  It said the various 
categories of risk were explained to Ms H and she knew what  these meant from her own experience.
It said the investigator said that the answers  Ms H gave painted a confusing  image of Ms Hs true 
attitude to risk but at the same time said she had experience with high-risk investments. It said she 
had five to ten years  of high-risk investments and markets generally with £50,000 in equities. It noted  
the investigator thought it shouldve  got more  information on her experience, but it had seen her 
previous five years trading.
It questioned how the investigator  came to the conclusion  that he did, when  he didnt know which  
transactions were advised  and which were execution only. It also questions how the investigator was 
able to conclude  Ms H wouldve invested  differently if given suitable  advice and asked for evidence 
she had been given unsuitable advice.   
TSCL said that Ms H had invested  mainly in FTSE  100/250 stock  and apart from Carillion   which  
wasnt its fault  she had made a profit  on her transactions.
The investigator chased  up the spreadsheet  of calls that TSCL has said it was compiling but this has 
not been  provided and I have seen no further information  from it. 
Ref: DRN91388127my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
TSCL is entitled to rely on the information that a client gives it, so long as the information is accurate  
and complete. If it has the relevant information and all the information  is consistent  and it bases its 
advice on this then it has done nothing wrong. 
But what TSCL appears to be arguing is that it is entitled  to rely on that information that supports  what 
it did and ignore information  that doesnt. I dont think it can pick and choose what  it wants to rely on 
when there  are inconsistencies in the information. In that situation I dont think the information can be 
considered either  accurate  or complete,  and a firm should  clarify the information rather than simply 
ignoring those inconsistencies.
TSCL rely on the fact that certain information in the documents indicated that Ms H had existing 
equity investments, understood high risk stocks and was a medium  risk investor. 
From the information I have  seen Ms H did have some limited experience of equity investment, which 
I comment further on below. But I think other information in the fact find/risk questionnaire is 
inconsistent with her being a medium risk investor who had a good understanding of equity 
investment. 
Her answers to various questions suggests someone who does not have that much experience of 
equities and is closer to being risk-averse than a medium  risk investor.
In answer to a question  about what loss in a one-year period would concern her Ms H indicated she 
would be concerned with a loss of over 5%  the lowest possible loss in the question with the next 
level of loss being over 10%. The question even points out that investment in shares requires a long-
term view. 
The next question asks how an investor would feel if a £100,000 investment had dropped to £87,030 
in a year. Ms H chose  the first answer  - being the most risk averse answer - which  was that she would  
feel panic and would  want her adviser  to sell and go to cash.
She then disagreed with the statement that she would be more concerned that her investments grow  
in the long term rather  than in any one-year period. And next to this the adviser has written:
Wants it to grow all the time.
The final question was about how much of her money she would be willing to take more risk with to 
increase the chances of improving  returns to which she indicated only a quarter of her money.
I think  it is very unlikely that a medium risk investor who understood  equities would be concerned 
about losses when they reached only 5% in one year or would want to sell and go to cash if they 
suffered a loss in one year. They also wouldnt be more concerned with their investment growing in a 
year rather than long term given equities arent short term investments  as the first question  I 
referred to made  clear. 
There is further information  that I think shows Ms Hs lack of experience and understanding of equity 
investment. She indicated that the period that she had held an investment for is very  short, and that 
she sells as soon as she sees profit.  
But equity investment  isnt usually short  term and selling  as soon as there is profit  is not generally 
what an experienced equity  investor  would normally be expected  to do. 
There are further inconsistencies  between the information in the fact find/risk questionnaire and the 
portfolio agreement and application Ms H completed. The fact find/risk questionnaire showed  that Ms 
Ref: DRN91388128H had £150,000 in bank deposits, £2 million in property but other investments  was recorded  as 
unknown.
The portfolio agreement and application records that Ms H had £150,000  in equity investments, rather  
than in bank deposits, with £1.3 million in other assets.
The trading history  TSCL  has provided and which  it relies upon doesnt suggest  that Ms H had 
anything like £150,000 in equity investments. It shows  only two existing holdings as of 2014,  which 
Ms H had invested just short of £11,000 into. The trading history shows no other stock held at the 
time Ms H saw TSCL. 
As with the fact find/risk questionnaire  Ms Hs preferred level of portfolio risk is identified as medium  in 
the portfolio agreement. But her time horizon is recorded as less than three years, which again isnt 
usually a time horizon  that would be expected with equity investment. 
In contrast to what the fact find/risk  questionnaire shows  namely that she had five to ten years of 
experience of markets in general, and the same amount  of experience  in high risk stocks  the 
application shows she only had one to five years of experience in equities. This is consistent with the 
trading history which shows the earliest  trade was June 2009.  So, I think  there was reason for TSCL  
to question what  actual experience Ms H had.
TSCL has referred to Ms Hs experience  in the five years before she became  a client as shown in the 
trading history and has suggested it didnt need any more information. But, from the trading  history it 
has provided, she only carried out a total of 10 trades  in that time,  all of which were in FTSE 100 
companies. And of those 10 trades, in only two cases did she hold equities beyond  2011. 
I think  it is also of note that four had been in the same FTSE 100 company and in only four trades in 
total did Ms H hold the stock  beyond four months.  I dont think the trading  history supports  what TSCL 
has said about Ms Hs experience. I think it shows she had quite limited  experience in equities which  
is what some of the information in the fact find/risk questionnaire also showed.
I will comment briefly on other points made by TSCL in response to the investigators opinion. It has 
said there was no evidence Ms H was pressured into making any trade. I accept that, but I think it is 
more likely  than not she relied upon and accepted the advice she was given  as to what trades she 
should do. More importantly,  if TSCL had clarified the information it had obtained from her I dont think  
she wouldve  been advised to carry out the trades she did.
 
TSCL has said the various risk categories were explained to Ms H and that she understood what  
these meant  from her own experience. But, as I have said, there is reason  to question  both her 
experience and understanding given  some of the information provided  in the fact find/risk 
questionnaire and other documents I have referred to. 
I also think  it is of note that the fact find/risk questionnaire indicates that Ms Hs existing portfolio  was 
made up of 25% FTSE 100, 25% FTSE 250, 25% AIM and 25% Penny shares and that Ms H wanted 
the same mix in her portfolio with TSCL. But the trading history doesnt support what is recorded in 
the fact find/risk questionnaire,  so I think this is another inconsistency in the information  available. 
TSCL has asked how the investigator came to the conclusion he did when he didnt  know which of the 
trades had been advised and which had been execution only. But unless TSCL  didnt advise Ms H to 
trade based on the medium  risk appetite the documents recorded she had (and which  TSCL  maintain 
is appropriate)  and it hasnt suggested this - then basing  redress on a comparison between the 
trades it advised Ms H to enter into and a benchmark based  on what  her likely  risk appetite was isnt 
inappropriate.
In summary Im not satisfied that TSCL  got the information it needed  to properly determine  that Ms H 
was an experienced equity investor with a medium risk appetite. I think the information  I have seen 
points more  towards someone who was more  a cautious risk investor. I note the investigator thought  
Ref: DRN91388129that a no-risk benchmark  was an appropriate comparison. But Im mindful  that Ms Hs objective was 
capital growth  and Im not persuaded that she was risk averse.  The CMC  has said she was a cautious 
risk investor and I think it is more likely  than not she was. 
What TSCL  should do to put things  right 
TSCL offered two services  to Ms H, an advisory service and an execution only service.  I am not 
persuaded on the evidence I have  seen that it did anything wrong regarding the execution only 
service. It was not responsible for the suitability of trades carried out through that service. So, I think 
redress should be limited to those trades it advised Ms H to carry out.
  
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Ms H as close 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable  advice.
I think  Ms H would have invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely  what she would have 
done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Ms H's 
circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
What should TSCL do? 
To compensate Ms H fairly,  TSCL must:
Compare the performance  of Ms H's investments with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investments. If the actual 
value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
TSCL should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Each advised  
investmentmixedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of each 
investmentThe date of the 
sale of the 
investment or 
the date of 
settlement if the 
investment still 
exists8% simple  per 
year from date of 
sale - for any 
investments that 
were  sold - to 
date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date a particular investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual  value should  
be assumed to be zero.  This is provided  Ms H agrees to TSCL taking ownership of the investment, if 
it wishes to. If it is not possible for TSCL to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from 
Ms H that she repays to TSCL any amount she may receive from the investment in future. 
Fair value
Ref: DRN913881210This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, TSCL  should use the 
monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England.  The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms H wanted  capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable return without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE  
WMA Stock Market Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government  bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider  that Ms H's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain her investment  objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Ms H into that position. It does  not mean that Ms H would  have invested 50% 
of her money  in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  fund. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Ms H could  have 
obtained from investments suited  to her objective and risk attitude.  
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained. TS CAPITAL LIMITED must pay Ms H the 
amount calculated  as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9138812