K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  will not refund money 
which they say an ATM failed to dispense.
background
In August  2018,  Mr F says there was a glitch with Halifaxs system  and he was unable  to 
withdraw money over the counter. He was advised  to use an ATM instead.  
He did this but says the money he attempted to withdraw was not dispensed but yet debited 
his account.  He then went  to use another  ATM  this time an ATM run by another bank (N) 
and again, says the money he requested was not dispensed.
When Mr F complained to Halifax, it offered a refund for the first transaction but said that as 
the second ATM did not belong to it, it would  need to investigate  the failed withdrawal.
Halifax did this  but based on the evidence provided by N, it rejected Mr Fs complaint.  It 
said that the ATM which he had used had balanced  on that day and showed the money as 
having left the ATM  drawer.
Mr F then brought his complaint  to this service.  Our investigator looked into matters  a bit 
further and sought evidence in the form of the purge bin report.  This would show  whether,  
despite the ATM balancing, the money had been returned to the purge box.
This evidence clearly showed that the ATM had balanced and that there  was no extra money 
in the purge box.  So, based  on this information, he could not tell Halifax  to do anymore.
Mr and Mrs F did not feel that their complaint had been investigated correctly so asked  for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain to Mr and Mrs F that my role here is to look at the evidence  in this case  and 
make a decision as to whether Halifax has done anything wrong.  Where there are gaps in 
the evidence,  I make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
So, in the circumstances of this case, and based on the evidence  presented  by N, I cannot 
see anything to suggest that Halifax has been  unfair  or unreasonable in rejecting Mr and Mrs 
Fs complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs F says that the money did not dispense   but based on the evidence  as it 
is presented, I cannot say Halifax is unreasonable in its stance.   The documentary evidence  
suggests that the money was dispensed  and was not returned to the purge box  so on 
balance, I think it is more  likely that it was dispensed.
And I think that their complaint has been investigated in detail by our investigator.  He  has 
sought every  bit of evidence that could help in their case.
Ref: DRN92646852I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs F were hoping for  but I wont be upholding their 
complaint against  Halifax.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc need  do nothing more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 January  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9264685