K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclaycard) turned down his claim for a refund 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75).
background
Mr B asked a company,  M, to supply  and install some double glazing.  M says it asked Mr B 
to pay it via P, a third party, which Mr B did using his credit card.
Mr B says there were  problems with the double glazing  shortly after it was installed.
Mr B asked Barclaycard  to refund the money  he had paid under section 75. Barclaycard 
didnt agree to the refund  because it said the necessary conditions for a section 75 claim 
werent fulfilled.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  She said the relationship  
between the parties  required under section 75 didnt exist so Barclaycard had no liability to   
Mr B. And Mr B had brought  the issue to Barclaycard too late for it to raise a chargeback.
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his complaint. 
In summary  Mr B said that he believed the manner  in which  his payment  was collected 
amounts to fraud  and he never authorised  P to collect the payment that it did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.
 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Its not for me to decide Barclaycards liability. Instead, I need  to decide if I think Barclaycard 
treated Mr B fairly and reasonably, taking into account the relevant law, which includes 
section 75.
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mr B has a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against a supplier of goods or services he can also bring that claim against  
Barclaycard  provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions  is that there must 
be a debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s)  relationship.
Ref: DRN92908822Mr B had a contract with M to supply  and install double glazing. But Mr B used his credit 
card to pay P. I note that Mr B believes that M is a trading name of P, but Ive seen no 
evidence of this. Therefore  Im satisfied that what Mr B did was to pay a separate party.  This 
means there  is no valid d-c-s relationship in relation to the service that went  wrong  
because Mr B didnt use his credit card to pay the party he contracted  with to supply and 
install his double glazing.
If there was a particular  type of relationship - known  as an associate relationship - in place 
between M and P then there would still be a d-c-s link. The relationships  which qualify as 
associates are clearly defined in the Consumer Credit Act.
Ive looked into the relationship between the parties.  And whilst they did have some  form of 
relationship since  P took money on behalf  of M and supplied the goods to M to be fitted, they 
arent associates as defined  by the Consumer Credit  Act. 
I can understand that Mr B will be frustrated  by my findings above. But as Im satisfied  that M 
didnt accept credit cards  I cant see that Mr B would have ever been able to pay for the 
supply and installation  of double glazing from M in a way that would have  given him 
section 75 rights. In concluding that M didnt accept credit cards Ive had regard to what all 
the parties have  said on this point and that the invoice for the supply and fit of Mr Bs double 
glazing from M simply refers to payment being made by BACS,  not by debit or credit card.
So in summary Im satisfied that Barclaycard did nothing  wrong  in turning down Mr Bs 
section 75 claim.
In response to the investigators view, Mr B said that he believed the manner in which his 
payment was collected amounts to fraud because he never  authorised P to collect the 
payment that it did (whether on behalf of M or not). 
However having considered Mr Bs original submission to Barclaycard (dated 30 April 2018) 
and his submissions  to our service  before the investigator issued her view,  its my 
understanding that this is a new complaint. And because of my view in this respect  I make  
no finding on it in this decision.
However if Mr B would like to pursue this particular complaint  further, then he should  raise it 
with Barclaycard in the first instance  and then on to our service where appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9290882