K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the way that her home insurance claim for water  damage was handled 
by AXA Insurance  UK Plc
background
Ms B made a claim to AXA after water started  coming into her lounge from a broken heating 
pipe. Ms B had the leak traced and repaired through her home emergency insurance.  AXA 
appointed contractors to review the damage  and her damaged flooring was removed. There  
was a large hole left in the middle  of the lounge over Christmas.  This was filled in on 9 
January.
The contractors then arranged drying  out of the property. This wasnt  effective at first and it 
was decided that the bitumen flooring underneath needed removing.  This was subsequently 
done, and drying  out was successfully achieved. The repairs  then took place, including  re-
laying the floor and redecoration. These  were  completed by 11 July.
Ms B complained of the delays in the repairs being  carried out. In particular she had to 
constantly chase  the contractors for when they would be attending. She and her family had 
to put up with a lot of disruption  over seven months. For the delays and inconvenience 
caused, AXA paid compensation  of £400.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that AXA had made a reasonable payment of 
compensation which was in line with what she would have recommended.
Ms B didnt think this was fair in particular as AXA had told her that the amount of 
compensation would not impact future complaints, when  clearly it had.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate that this was a very stressful time for Ms B and her family. The fact that the 
leak happened just before Christmas must have been very upsetting for her. Unfortunately 
thats the nature of a claim like this, inevitably the removal of the floor and having  to deal 
with the repair of the pipes which left a large  hole in the middle  of the floor would be very 
inconvenient.
But I do think the claim could have been  handled better  in particular  it was unacceptable 
for the hole in the floor to be left for so long. And the drying out effectively took four months 
to be completed.  This appears  to be because it wasnt  recognised  when doing the strip out 
that the bitumen floor needed to be removed. When this was recognised,  it took some time 
to find the appropriate contractor to do this.
I further understand that Ms B had to do a lot of chasing up of the matter  by phone and this 
added to the stress and inconvenience for her. The repairs  overall  took over seven months 
to complete. This period  could have been shortened by several  months if the drying out had 
been completed as it should have been,  and the repairs  better organised.
Ref: DRN98430912As Ive said,  this sort of claim will inevitably  be stressful and very inconvenient. Its fair for 
AXA to pay compensation for the fact that its or its contractors' actions added to that. It has 
paid Ms B £400.  Taking  into account  the sort of awards we have made in similar cases  I 
think thats reasonable. 
Ms B had the impression that the amount already paid wouldnt be taken  into account by us. 
What AXA said was that it had been paid without prejudice and it does not affect your rights 
to further escalation, should you remain dissatisfied. Which meant she was free to accept 
the payment but to ask for this service  to do an independent review.  This did include 
consideration of whether AXA had acted  reasonably, including any payments made.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against AXA Insurance  UK Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9843091