K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund three payments from his account,  
although he says he neither made them himself nor authorised anyone else to make them 
on his behalf.
background
Mr Os complaint concerns three transactions made in October 2017; two were  payments 
from his account  and the third was a transfer between Mr Os accounts. They total nearly  
£600. 
The first payment of £500 was made by phone to a Wirecard account; the second was made 
using the banks voice recognition system  and was a transfer of £8 between Mr Os 
accounts; the third was an online  payment  of £68. Mr O contacted HSBC about the 
payments about  a month after they were made. 
HSBC said that the first payment  was made  after the caller had provided Mr Os telephone 
security number and completed  its caller  verification  process.  The second payment (the 
internal transfer)  was made from a device that Mr O had previously used for transactions he 
hadnt disputed. The third payment was made  using Mr Os online log-in details. 
Mr O said that he had never shared any of these details, although  he had provided personal 
details when making a job application. He said too that hed noticed  some of his banking 
details had been changed; it was this that alerted him to a potential  problem.
HSBC concluded  however that it was more  likely  than not that Mr O had either  made the 
transactions himself  or had authorised someone  else to make them.  It didnt agree to a 
refund. 
Mr O referred  the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what  had 
happened. She also thought however that it was likely that Mr O was responsible for the 
transactions and so didnt recommend that HSBC refund them.  Mr O didnt accept the 
investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review them.                  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
The three transactions which  led to Mr Os complaint were carried out using three different 
methods  phone, voice recognition and online.  If, as Mr O says,  someone else was 
responsible for them, that person would have needed to be able to pass telephone  security, 
voice recognition  and online security. Since  Mr O has said that nobody else would have  had 
access to his security details, its unlikely that a third party  would have been able to pass  the 
banks security systems. Even if someone  else had obtained  security  information, its even 
less likely that they would be able too to access Mr Os account using voice  recognition 
technology.
Mr O did say that he had provided personal details when making a job application, but it 
seems most unlikely that anyone in that position would have asked for his banking  log-on 
information, and less likely still that Mr O would have provided them. 
Ref: DRN99761402Ive listened to a recording  of the call in which £500 was transferred to a Wirecard account. 
Its not obviously Mr Os voice in the call, but whoever made the call had enough  information  
to be able to pass  security. So, whilst  its possible that someone else made that call, its 
more likely than not that they did so with Mr Os consent.  
I should mention  too that the transfer  was said to be to an account in Mr Os name. Wirecard 
indicated at one point that the account  was not in Mr Os name and that it had returned some 
of the money.  However, neither Mr O nor HSBC has been  able to confirm that  and HSBC  
said it hadnt traced any return of funds.
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator  that the most likely explanation for the 
disputed payments and transfer is that Mr O either made them  himself  or authorised 
someone else to do so. Either way, it wouldnt be fair to require HSBC to refund them.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC Bank UK Plc to take any further steps  to 
resolve Mr Os complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 7 August  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9976140