K820x#14complaint
Mr K says he was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In January 1999 Mr K took out a store card. In September  2001  PPI was added  to his 
account following  a phone  call. The store card closed in 2008.
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mr K owed on his store  card and it protected  
Mr Ks store  card monthly repayments  if he couldnt  work because of an accident or sickness  
or if he lost his job. 
FICL say Mr K paid £11.49 for the PPI over the lifetime  he held the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K completed a store card application form in January 1999. FICL has provided  a copy of 
this and it shows PPI wasnt selected at this time.  FICL says it was added at a later date 
during a phone  call. 
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
But that is understandable as it was such a long time ago. So I dont know  what  it may have 
said to Mr K when the policy was sold. But based  on what this service knows about the sales 
process, and given that PPI was added some  time after hed made his store card application 
and had the account, I think  there was most likely a conversation about PPI and Mr K would 
have been aware  that the policy was optional. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely. I dont think  its 
reasonable to expect  Mr K to remember exactly what might have happened so many years 
ago. Its unsurprising, and completely  understandable, that Mr K told us he doesnt 
remember PPI being added. But Im not persuaded that Ive seen enough information overall 
to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint that the policy was added to his store card account 
without his knowledge or consent.
 
Ref: DRN95929382It was up to FICL to provide Mr K with clear information about the policy  so he could decide if 
he wanted to take it out. Mr K was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look as if he was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Mr K that he didnt received any sick pay from his employer if he was unable  to work. So he 
would have only been entitled to statutory sick pay. He didnt have any savings  or other  
insurance policies  in place to help him meet his repayments if he was unable to work for a 
lengthy period.
The PPI policy would  have covered  15% of what Mr K owed on the card at the point of 
claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount each  month until Mr K returned  to 
work, or the outstanding balance had been cleared. This could have been a useful  benefit  at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr K needed to claim. So I think  Mr K would have 
found the PPI useful  at that time. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mr K to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But I think if Mr K had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided he still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mr K  and Im satisfied that its 
likely he took it out when he didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mr K off taking out 
the policy, given  his situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mr K all the information it should have done when it 
sold him the policy, I dont  find that Mr K has lost out as a result  of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592938