K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the interest  rate Santander UK Plc has charged on their 
mortgage over the past six years. They complain Santander had a duty of care to ensure 
their mortgage was on the best deal available, and are unhappy they have been paying the 
standard variable  rate (SVR) for so long. Theyre also unhappy that the SVR has stayed as 
high as it has, and hasnt  fallen in line with drops in the Bank  of England  base rate. They  say 
Santander hasnt  kept them updated  with details of the interest rate applied  to their 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T also complain about  the sale of their mortgage, and the fact Santander hasnt  
pro-actively contacted them to check that their plan to repay the interest-only part of their 
mortgage is on track.
background
In 2004, Mr and Mrs T took out a part interest-only, part repayment mortgage with 
Abbey National,  which  later became  Santander. The mortgage was initially on a stepped  
tracker rate for three years. The mortgage offer said after this period, the mortgage would 
move onto the SVR,  which was 6.75%  at the time the mortgage  was agreed.
In 2008, Mr and Mrs T took some  additional  borrowing.  This was taken out on a variable  
rate, which was Abbeys SVR with a discount of 0.01%  for two years (5.43% at the time). 
After the mortgage  reverted to the SVR,  that was the rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage until they successfully applied for a new interest rate product in late 2018.
When Santander offered  Mr and Mrs T a fixed interest rate in 2018, Mrs T complained that 
this hadnt been offered to them earlier. She also complained about other aspects of the 
mortgage, as Ive set out above.  Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They explained 
theyd written to Mr and Mrs T when their mortgage moved onto the SVR,  and let them  know 
each time this changed. They said they werent  obliged to pro-actively  contact customers  to 
discuss interest rates, and the onus is on the consumer to manage their finances.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint  to our service. Our investigator explained 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about  the sale of the mortgage had been made too late for us to 
be able to consider  it, but that we could consider the rest of their concerns. Mrs T accepted  
this, so our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ts concerns about their interest rate. Having 
done, so he explained he didnt think Santander  had acted  unfairly. 
Mrs T disagreed, so the complaints been  passed  to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T has accepted shes complained about the sale of her mortgage and the additional 
borrowing too late for our service to consider it, so I havent considered this part of her 
complaint in this decision.
Santanders duty of care
Ref: DRN90982302Mr and Mrs T are unhappy their mortgage  has been  on Santanders SVR for so long, and 
feel that the business had a duty of care to ensure they were on the best deal available for 
them. I understand why Mr and Mrs T are frustrated to learn they could potentially have been 
paying a lower interest rate on their mortgage  over the years   as the deal they were offered 
in 2018 has made a significant difference to their monthly mortgage  payments. But whilst 
Mr and Mrs T say the onus was on Santander  to ensure they were always  on the best deal 
for them, Im not persuaded Santander have acted unfairly here.
Santander were required  to inform Mr and Mrs T what interest rate they were  paying on their 
mortgage, and what this meant for their monthly payments. They were also required to let 
Mr and Mrs T know when  this rate changed. Whilst Mr and Mrs T say they didnt always 
receive statements  from Santander, and they werent told about  the interest rate applied to 
their mortgage, Ive seen  Santanders internal notes to show that the statements were sent. 
Ive also listened  to the call Mrs T had with Santander in 2018  where  she talks about the 
latest letter sent about the rate increase. Considering everything, Im satisfied  Santander 
sent Mr and Mrs T information which set out the interest rate that applied  to their mortgage.
Santander are required  to treat their customers fairly. But there  are no specific  requirements 
set out in the regulators rules that require  lenders  to pro-actively contact  borrowers when 
better interest rates may be available. That doesnt of course mean they couldnt  do it, and if 
conversations had taken place  over the years  between Mr and Mrs T and Santander about 
their mortgage arrangements, and theyd asked for these to be reviewed, or suggested 
things were becoming unaffordable, I would  expect Santander to explore whether there were 
other options available to them, which would  have included reviewing the interest  rate. 
When Mr and Mrs Ts previous deals ended, Santander wrote to them  to tell them  the 
mortgage was moving  onto the SVR. This letter explained they could call Santander  if they 
were interested in taking out another  deal. Santander also included  information in the annual  
statements about what to do if they wanted  to apply for a new rate. So on balance, Im 
satisfied Santander  did enough to make  Mr and Mrs T aware  that they could apply for a new 
interest rate if they wanted to. Im not persuaded the fact Mr and Mrs T didnt do this should 
have raised an alert to Santander to prompt further contact. Many borrowers in fact choose 
to stay on the SVR due to the flexibility it offers compared to other fixed deals. So overall,  Im 
persuaded Santander have acted fairly by not pro-actively contacting  Mr and Mrs T earlier 
about lower interest  rates.
I understand Mrs T says she discussed  her mortgage several times with Santander over the 
years, so they had opportunities to review  her arrangements. Ive looked at the contact notes 
for the mortgage  account for the period Mr and Mrs T are complaining  about  (from  2012  
onwards), and there is only one conversation recorded from 2013  which was about  one 
unpaid direct debit.  Following that I cant see any contact  has been made until 2018 when 
the new rate was agreed. So on balance, Im not persuaded Santander  have had detailed  
conversations with Mrs T about  her mortgage  arrangements,  where they could, and should, 
have reviewed the interest rate.
Mr and Mrs T have  raised similar concerns about  the fact Santander havent pro-actively 
contacted them about their plans  to repay the interest-only part of their mortgage. As a 
responsible lender, I would expect Santander to be having these conversations with 
borrowers to ensure  the mortgage is on track  to be repaid, at the appropriate times and 
opportunities.
Ref: DRN90982303In 2018 when Mrs T discussed her mortgage with Santander and took out a new rate, there  
was still over ten years left on the term. During this conversation the advisor did ask Mrs T if 
she was looking to make  any other  changes  to the mortgage, highlighting that around  
£60,000 of the balance  was on interest-only.  Mrs T explained she and Mr T should  be in a 
position to fully repay this part of the mortgage in 3-4 years time, and so didnt want  to 
switch it to repayment. There didnt seem  to be any concern on Mrs Ts part that repaying  
the interest-only part of the mortgage was going  to be a problem for them.  So I dont think  
Santander needed to go further in this conversation to make any other  recommendations.
Given that before this conversation took place, there were still over 10 years left before  the 
term was due to end, Im not persuaded Santander were acting irresponsibly by not 
prompting these  conversations sooner. There was no indication  from the way the mortgage  
account was being run that Mr and Mrs T were  in difficulty, and with such a long term 
remaining I dont think its unreasonable Santander  hadnt contacted them  about this earlier. 
I would have expected Santander to use any appropriate opportunity to have these 
discussions to ensure things were  on track,  which is what  they did in 2018. In any event, 
given Mrs Ts plans  Im not persuaded it would have made  a difference  if Santander had 
asked about repayment plans earlier  given she seems comfortable shell be able to repay  
it well before its expiry.
The level of Santanders SVR
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Santanders  SVR was higher than it should have been, and that 
the bank didnt pass on the benefits  of the reductions in the Bank of England base rate over 
the years. Its important  to note that once Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage moved onto the SVR  
the interest rate was no longer a tracker  rate as it had been  previously. So there was no 
requirement for the SVR to move  in line with changes to the base rate. 
Having said this, over the time period Mr and Mrs T are complaining about (the last six years  
before making  their complaint), the base rate only reduced once  in 2016. Following this 
change Santander  did reduce its SVR by the same margin (0.25%).  So  whilst  there was no 
requirement for Santander to pass on this reduction  they did.
Mr and Mrs T also complain that the SVR was generally too high.  Since 2011 the SVR 
Mr and Mrs T paid has varied between 4.24% and 4.99%.  The terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage explain  in more detail how the SVR works, and what  can influence 
any changes to it. The terms of the mortgage explain that the interest rate is variable, and 
the bank set this rate taking into account a number of factors.  
Whilst I appreciate Santanders  SVR may seem high in comparison to the Bank  of England  
base rate, or fixed  interest  rates that may have  been  available  over the years,  it has not 
been out of line with other SVRs charged  across the industry  during this time. And so 
considering everything, Im not satisfied Santanders  SVR has been unfairly high.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2020.
Ref: DRN90982304Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9098230