K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold them a 
packaged bank  account. They paid a monthly  fee for the account which provided several 
benefits in return. Their  complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management 
company.
background
The history  of the account is as follows:
Mrs B opened  a Royalties packaged account  in March 2001.  
in July 2005, Mr B was added  as a joint account  holder to the existing account  this 
wasnt a new account  sale.  
the monthly fees were suspended  at the beginning of January 2009 because Mr and 
Mrs B told RBS they were experiencing financial  difficulties. 
the account was closed in 2012.  
Our adjudicator didnt  conclude that the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think that RBS 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Mr and Mrs B so she didnt recommend that RBS should 
pay them  any compensation.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make 
a final decision.  They and their representative  didnt provide any further evidence or 
information, and when asked specifically why they wanted an ombudsman to look at the 
case, they were  either unable or unwilling to say.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
I dont conclude that the packaged bank account  was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B. Ill explain 
why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs B was given a fair choice when  she took the 
packaged bank  account. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed, but I havent seen 
anything to make me think that, when she opened  the account,  Mrs B wasnt given a choice. 
Fee-free accounts have  always  been,  and continue to be, available  in the UK. So I think its 
likely Mrs B chose  to take the Royalties account knowing she didnt have to. I think  its more 
likely she took the Royalties account  because  at least  some of the benefits appealed to her.
Ref: DRN97982462Mr and Mrs B say that RBS recommended the Royalties account to them.  But I havent seen 
anything to make me think RBS had a detailed conversation  with Mrs B in 2001 about  her 
personal circumstances to recommend the account  it thought  was right for her. From  
everything Ive seen I think its more likely RBS gave her the key information about  the 
account and it was for her to decide  whether she wanted  it. Its very likely that RBS 
highlighted the benefits of the account  during the conversations  it had with Mrs B. But I dont 
think it was wrong to do that; after all its normal for businesses to highlight  the benefits of its 
products.
Although it didnt make a recommendation, RBS had to give Mrs B enough clear information 
about the packaged account for her to decide if she wanted it. Mrs B recalls she was given a 
vague list of the benefits and they werent fully explained to her. Its possible that RBS didnt 
tell Mrs B everything it should  have about the packaged account.  But I havent seen anything  
to make me think that Mrs B wouldnt still have taken the account,  even if RBS had told her 
everything.
I dont know what benefits Mrs B was attracted to. Her representative told us that she and 
Mr B didnt register for any of the benefits  because  they couldnt  use them  they didnt travel 
abroad, or use a mobile phone, and they already had accidental  death cover and life 
assurance with their mortgage. But when Mrs B took the account in 2001, it didnt include 
travel or mobile phone insurance. It did offer £5,000 accidental death cover, but this was just 
one of the benefits. It also offered,  amongst other things, payment  card protection,  extended 
warranty cover, 90 day purchase  protection, £100 fee-free overdraft facility and preferential 
interest rates above that, discounted personal  loans and credit card and interest  on credit 
balances, plus some retailer discounts. I havent  seen anything  to suggest that Mrs B  and 
later Mr B when he became a joint holder  couldnt have made use of some,  or all, of these 
benefits.
In particular, it seems to me, that Mrs B was probably persuaded to take the account 
because of the overdraft and loan benefits.  After she opened the account, she was approved 
for a £100  overdraft  facility which was interest  free. If she exceeded  the £100 agreed, she 
was entitled to preferential interest rates. I can also see that she applied  for two loans  one 
in March 2002 and one in September  2003. As a Royalties account  holder, she wouldve 
received a 1% APR discount on the loans. Unfortunately her application in 2002 was 
declined and it looks like she maybe decided not to go ahead  with the 2003 loan. But the 
fact that she made applications suggests  to me that she was hoping to benefit  from the 
reduced rates advertised when she took out the account.
Overall I think  that Mrs B chose  to take an account which included benefits she was eligible 
for and couldve used. I accept that she might not have been told everything about all of the 
benefits but I cant see anything specific that she wasnt told that I think wouldve altered  her 
decision to take out the account.
Mr and Mrs B may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe they havent benefitted from the 
account as much as theyd hoped and expected when it was taken out. But overall  and 
taking everything into consideration, I dont think this account  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN97982463my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9798246