K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading at the time as Sainsburys Bank) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ms credit card account  when she applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ms application  for the credit card. It includes a section headed 
Insurance. Theres a brief outline  of Credit Care Protection  (a form of PPI), with 
equally prominent options to take or decline the cover.  And theres a tick against the 
option to take it. I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  
and that she chose to take it  although  I can understand why she may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. It was for Mrs M to decide  whether to take the PPI, knowing what other 
means shed have had of making  her monthly  credit card payments if she was off sick, 
or if she lost her job. But Bank of Scotland did have  a responsibility to give Mrs M clear  
enough information to enable her to decide whether the PPI was right for her.
 Ive borne in mind  that Mrs Ms told us she was entitled to some sick pay from her 
employer at the time. But if shed made  a successful claim on the policy  for accident  or 
sickness, it would have  paid out for up to 12 months. Thats significantly longer than 
Mrs Ms told us shed have been  entitled  to sick pay for. And it would have paid the 
same benefit if shed made a successful claim on the policy  for unemployment. Whats  
more, the policy  would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs M received from 
her employer.  So she could have used those to meet other  day-to-day  expenses.
 I acknowledge that Mrs Ms told us she was living  with friends  or relatives  when she 
opened the credit card account.  She says this meant that her outgoings  were  very 
limited. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mrs Ms living 
arrangements would have remained as they were, or that her friends and relatives  
would have been in a position to help her if the need had arisen.
Ref: DRN98631472 Taking everything  into account, I think the PPI could  have  been  useful for Mrs M, 
especially as shes told us that aside from payments form her employer, she didnt 
have any other means she could  have used to make her monthly credit card 
repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should  have  been.  But Mrs M chose to take out the policy.  So she appears 
to have wanted  this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten  that now.  
I acknowledge that shes told us she worked part-time. But from the information she 
gave Bank of Scotland about her working hours, Im satisfied, on balance, that she was 
working for more than 16 hours  per week. That was the minimum needed to be able to 
benefit from the policy. So I dont think Mrs Ms working pattern made  the policy 
unsuitable for her. She wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. And it was competitively priced and apparently  affordable.  
 So taking everything into account,  Ive seen  nothing to make  me think that Mrs M 
wouldnt have been able to benefit  fully from the policy.  And I think it unlikely  that shed 
have made a different decision even if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think shed still have  taken out the policy.
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863147