K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Deep Blue Financial Limited. He says that Deep Blues actions 
led to him being  unable  to access his pension account, his switching service was turned off 
without his consent, and hes concerned that he may have lost out financially.
background
Mr W held a collective retirement account  with a pension  provider.  Deep Blue was his 
adviser on the account. From June 2017 Mr W had invested in a Deep Blue portfolio 
management service  which featured an e-switching service. The way this worked was that 
every quarter the investment funds were  rebalanced in line with Mr Ws attitude to risk and 
changes were proposed  by e-mail.  Mr W was expected to log on to the system and accept 
the changes, or not.
In November 2018 Mr W sent an e-mail to his adviser at Deep Blue pointing out that he had 
lost money since the last switch and, given his age and health, asked if he should be taking 
less risk. The adviser seems to have attempted to contact Mr W by phone  and sent e-mails 
in response. The e-mails suggested  the options  of moving to lower risk portfolios.
Mr W responded and said that he wished his portfolio to have  minimum risk. The adviser 
replied and asked  if Mr W wanted to switch portfolio but there  was no response  until 
February 2019. Mr W sent a message saying that he had received  another fund switch and 
made comments that the only winners  would be Deep Blue or others if he went  ahead.
Deep Blues adviser  responded  and asked Mr W to make contact so that they could discuss 
and review his requirements. Mr W replied by e-mail and said that he was considering that 
response. Then, after he received another  e-switch reminder, Mr W sent an e-mail which 
said:
"With respect I do not need this commission generating crap/non personal  wealth generation 
for me stuff to be rammed down my throat  every  5 minutes".
A manager at Deep  Blue then e-mailed  Mr W telling him that it had apologised to the 
recipients of that message for its offensive  tone. Mr W was also told that further messages 
from the switching  service would be stopped.
Later in February,  Mr W contacted his Deep Blue adviser saying that he was unable to log 
on and accept the switch that had been  proposed. The adviser explained that the e-switch  
service had been turned off at Mr Ws request and that's why he was unable to make  the 
switches himself.  The adviser accepted  the instruction to switch and reminded Mr W that he 
could change his risk profile and to call if he wanted  to make changes to it.
Mr W raised a complaint with Deep  Blue on 28 February 2019. He said that his totally  
inoffensive comments ought to have been  understood  to represent an expression of 
dissatisfaction and should not have  led to his being  cut off from his account. He felt he had 
not been treated fairly. The complaint was not upheld.
So, Mr W referred his complaint to this service where it was considered by an adjudicator.  
She didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary:
Mr W had been using  the e-switch service  since 2017 and so he knew the process.
Ref: DRN90617582Mr W had suggested the switches were commission driven, but the switches  didnt 
generate any remuneration for the adviser.  The fees paid to Deep Blue were  the 
agreed annual  fees.
Although Mr W intended no offence  with the language he used in his e-mail, Deep 
Blue had been clear  that it operated a zero tolerance policy.
Deep Blue wasnt  wrong to interpret Mr Ws message  as a request to stop the e-
switch messages being sent to him.
Deep Blue hadnt prevented Mr W from having direct access to his pension account. 
This was confirmed by the pension administrators.
The recommended  switch in February  2019 was made in time.
Mr W had raised  concern about the level of risk in the portfolio. But when he had 
been offered the chance to change his portfolio he hadnt responded.
In conclusion, the adjudicator felt that whilst  there was some  lack of quality in the 
communication from both parties, the complaint  shouldnt be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that Deep  Blue had taken discretion over his portfolio. Its actions 
had caused him stress and pain and Deep Blue knew he was unwell at that time.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and with her reasoning. I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im satisfied that Deep  Blue were providing  its advice services  and specifically the regular 
switching advice in line with the terms it had agreed with Mr W. Im satisfied that Mr W was 
familiar with the way the service  operated  as he had used it from 2017.
Ive considered Mr Ws concerns that there may have been an element of churning with the 
regular fund switches but Im not satisfied that was in fact the case. There  is no evidence 
that Deep Blue were  recommending  switches purely  to generate  fees or commission. The 
pension administrator has confirmed that no fees or commission were generated by the 
switches. Deep Blues fees were  restricted to its annual charges  which  it had agreed with Mr 
W at the outset.
Mr W insists that he meant no offence  when  he sent his message saying, With respect I do 
not need this commission  generating crap/non personal wealth  generation for me stuff to be 
rammed down my throat every 5 minutes. That may well be true, but Deep Blue has been 
clear that it operates a zero tolerance  policy, and I cant say that it was wrong to deem this 
message to be potentially offensive to its staff and/or  associates  at the switching service. I 
dont agree with Mr W when he says that his comments were totally inoffensive.
And, I dont  think Deep Blue was acting unreasonably or irrationally when it inferred from this 
message that Mr W didnt wish to receive these prompting messages in future. I think it was 
acting appropriately  and proportionately when it stopped future messages being sent. Its 
possible that it could  have been clearer in explaining this to Mr W and telling him that, as a 
result, he wouldnt be able to make  the switch himself on-line. But it seems  that this switch 
Ref: DRN90617583did take place,  in time, after Mr W spoke directly  with the pension administrator and the 
adviser. So Mr W didnt lose out because he was denied access  for a short time.
I can see that Mr W did raise concerns about his portfolio. He questioned recent losses  and 
queried whether  he should be taking less risk given his circumstances. But Im satisfied that 
Deep Blue responded to these concerns promptly by offering to discuss them  with him and 
proposing the option of lower risk portfolios. However, Deep Blue couldnt make these 
changes unilaterally.  Deep Blue was not a discretionary  fund manager for Mr W, it was his 
adviser and so it needed his authority to make changes.
Im sorry  to hear of Mr Ws poor health  and that these events caused him stress. But Im not 
satisfied that his complaint should  be upheld. I think that Deep Blue was providing  a service 
that Mr W had agreed to and was familiar  with. I think  it responded to his concerns  about his 
investments when he raised them. And I dont think Deep Blue was wrong to consider his 
message to be potentially offensive and take the steps that it did.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9061758