K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont  refund her for three payments she 
made as part of a scam and about  the customer service she was provided with. 
Background
Mrs L says she struggled to get a bank loan. She received a call from someone who said 
they could offer her a loan of £2,000  if she paid certain fees, which  would be returned to her 
as part of the loan. These  fees are set out in the table below. Mrs L was also told £205 
would be transferred to her account  and she should use this sum to make a donation 
through a named money  transfer  company. Once she had done so she would receive  the 
loan payment. 
On 22 February 2018 Mrs L made three payments  to the person offering  the loan as follows:
Time Amount
10:43 £176.53
12:24 £250
12:43 £160
Total £586.53
Later that day £205 was transferred to Mrs Ls account. That evening she attempted  to 
transfer it as shed been told to, but the payment was blocked. Mrs L says at this point she 
realised shed been the victim of a scam. She contacted Lloyds at 08:58 the following 
morning to report the scam. Lloyds contacted the receiving bank at 11.08 and was told no 
funds remained.  Lloyds also wrote to Mrs L to say if there was any further  fraudulent activity 
on her accounts it would close them and not allow her to open another account with Lloyds 
(a two strike letter). 
Mrs L complained to Lloyds. She said it shouldnt have made the payments, took too long to 
try to recover the funds  and treated  her like a criminal by sending her a two-strike letter. 
Lloyds said the payments  Mrs L made  werent  unusual and its fraud detection  system cant 
identify all fraudulent  activity. It also said it was right to send the two-strike letter to Mrs L, as 
shed put her account at risk by providing someone with her account details. Mrs L remained 
unhappy and complained  to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  She accepted Mrs L had been the victim of 
fraud but said she couldnt  reasonably  conclude that Lloyds should  have prevented  it. This 
was because the payments Mrs L made  werent unusual in amount or nature given her 
previous account  history,  the series of transactions werent  suspicious,  and after the 
payments Mrs L was left with quite a large balance. Finally, Mrs L didnt speak to Lloyds 
when she made the transactions,  so it didnt miss an opportunity  to identify the payments  
she was making were part of a scam.  Turning to the service Lloyds provided the investigator 
said that while the two strike letter could have been  worded more empathetically, it wasnt 
unprofessional, and Lloyds is entitled to decide whether to offer accounts.
Mrs L didnt accept what the investigator said and asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint, so its been passed to me to consider. She referred  to the fact shed lost out 
financially as a result  of the fraud.  Mrs L also said that although  she still had funds after the 
fraud, she needed them for bills, child maintenance and to pay off other creditors.
Ref: DRN98365652My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Im required to take in to 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  them to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And I have  taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to their customer if they make 
a payment in circumstances where  they have reasonable grounds 
(although not necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction 
was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds of their customer (known as 
the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. 
There are some situations, irrespective of the channel used, where  banks ought  to have 
been on alert or notice  that something wasnt right or should have looked  at the wider 
circumstances surrounding  a transaction before making the payment. So Ive looked into 
what this means in Mrs Ls case and whether Lloyds should  have done  more to prevent  the 
payments shes disputing, or to help her recover her funds.
I consider Lloyds should have been  on the lookout for unusual  and out of character 
transactions. So, Ive looked at Mrs Ls account history  in the period before the three  
transactions in question. Having done  so, I dont consider the three  transactions  were 
unusual or out of character. In the six months  before February 2018 Mrs L had made 
Ref: DRN98365653payments for similar amounts regularly. She also made multiple payments on the same day, 
including sometimes to the same payee.  Some examples include:
Date Amount
2 October 2017 £220.07 and £350
11 October 2017 £101.29
20 October 2017 £114.96 and £114.96 to the same beneficiary
15 November 2017 £150
1 December 2017 £130.96
15 December 2017 £114.26
20 December 2017 £125.81
1 January 2018 £266.65
25 January 2018 £110
Mrs L also regularly withdrew between £100 and £400 from cash machines.  
In the circumstances I dont consider its reasonable to conclude  Lloyds should have done 
more before making the payments Mrs L authorised on 22 February  2018.  They  were for 
relatively low amounts and were  consistent  with Mrs Ls previous spending history, which 
shows payments of £100 to £300 were  not unusual. Mrs L was also left with a reasonable 
balance after the transactions had been  made. I appreciate Mrs L says the balance was 
there to cover  certain  expenses, and I accept that. But the fact Mrs L had this balance is 
another reason why I consider Lloyds acted reasonably  in not flagging  the payments and 
taking additional  steps before paying them.  
Ive also considered whether the series  of transactions was suspicious. Whilst there were 
three payments to a new payee  on the same day, the amount of the payments  didnt  
increase each time (the third payment was the lowest  of the three). Mrs L also withdrew cash  
from her account after the first payment and before the second.  So I dont believe the pattern 
was unusual or suspicious.  
Ive also looked  at whether Lloyds took the steps  it should have once it was aware that the 
payments were made  because Mrs L was the victim of fraud.  Im satisfied Lloyds did. 
Unfortunately, at the time it contacted the receiving bank, Mrs Ls money had already been 
removed from the receiving account.  Lloyds sent a notice  to the receiving bank  at 11:07 on 
23 February 2018, a few hours after Mrs L had told Lloyds what  had happened. The money 
left the receiving bank  in instalments from 14:01  on 22 February  2018  to 07:46 on 23 
February. This means  that by the time Ms L called  Lloyds  at 08:58 on 23 February 2018 the 
funds had already  been  withdrawn and there was nothing Lloyds could do to retrieve  them.  
I understand why the two-strike letter  upset  Mrs L and agree it could have  been  worded 
more empathetically. But I consider Lloyds acted reasonably in sending  it. The terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ls account allow Lloyds to close her account without notice in certain 
circumstances, including  if it reasonably thinks theres fraudulent activity connected to the 
account. I dont  consider  Lloyds acted unreasonably in letting Mrs L know  this. But I 
appreciate Mrs L didnt deliberately use her account in a fraudulent manner  when she was 
the victim of a scam. Shes received  £205  of fraudulent  funds and I cant  see that Lloyds 
removed this sum before Mrs L closed her account. 
Im sorry  Mrs L has been the victim  of fraud and has lost out as a result. But I dont  think  it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to refund the £586.53 she lost. I also consider  
Ref: DRN98365654Lloyds took reasonable steps  to recover Mrs Ls funds  so Im not asking it to do anything  
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9836565