K820x#14complaint
Dr and Mrs A complain that Bruce Bennett (trading as BFM) provided them with unsuitable 
investment advice in 2012. And they complain that BFM failed to take timely  steps  to 
highlight the poor performance of their investments and recommend moving to an alternative  
investment manager.
background
Dr and Mrs A were  provided with investment advice relating to their Self-Invested Personal 
Pensions (SIPPs) in 2012. At that time they were  held with a provider, L, and were valued  at 
approximately £738,000 and £105,000 respectively. 
The documentation  from the time of that meeting noted that Dr and Mrs A wished to invest  
their pension funds  with the aim of achieving  capital growth, and then begin drawing an 
income from them in one to two years time once  Dr A retired.
BFM used an industry standard questionnaire  to determine that Dr and Mrs A had a 
medium attitude to investment risk. This was confirmed in a suitability report issued in 
April 2012 that recommended Dr and Mrs A transfer their pension  benefits to a new provider 
I will call S and invest  those funds using Ss discretionary investment service. A detailed 
proposal for that investment  was provided to Dr and Mrs A alongside  the suitability report.
In 2016 Dr and Mrs A, with the assistance  of BFM,  complained to S about the performance 
of their investments.  That complaint was subsequently considered by this Service but wasnt 
upheld. As a result Dr and Mrs A complained to BFM about the advice  they received. And 
they also complained about the time it took BFM  to advise them  on changing their 
investment provider.
Dr and Mrs As complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators.  She thought that 
BFM had taken reasonable steps  to determine Dr and Mrs As Attitude to Risk (ATR),  and 
the investment  portfolio it recommended was in line with that assessment. She also 
considered that BFM  had provided  sufficient  and timely information to Dr and Mrs A about  
the performance of their investments.
Dr and Mrs A didnt agree with that assessment. In brief they considered that the strategy 
used by the investment manager,  and in particular the use of a Strategic Investment 
Allocation (SIA) fund was incompatible with their stated ATR. And they didnt consider BFM 
had provided them  with on-going advice as needed.  So, as the complaint hasnt been  
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Dr and Mrs A and by BFM. And, where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at 
Ref: DRN94141582what evidence we have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think 
is more likely to have  happened,  or should have  happened.
Dr and Mrs A have been very clear  in their submissions to us that their complaint does not 
revolve around the performance of the fund. They accept that matter was dealt with in their 
earlier complaint  against  S. Instead  they have expressed, in great  detail and for which I am 
very grateful, their concerns over the individual components of the investment they were 
recommended and in particular  the component known as the Strategic Investment Allocation 
(SIA).
I can see that the SIA comprised a significant  portion  of Dr and Mrs As investments  it was 
around 30%.  My understanding of the SIA is that it was designed to smooth investment 
returns by targeting  investments that complemented the other  investments held in a portfolio. 
It is an important part of portfolio design  that assets provide a degree of security by reacting 
differently to changing  market conditions. And that was precisely the role played by the SIA. 
The assets held were matched to others held by Dr and Mrs A in their portfolio to help to 
ensure their returns were  close to their agreed  target.
In any portfolio, it is the overall risk that should be measured and matched to a consumers 
profile. There will often be very low risk assets  held such as cash. And these will be offset  
against higher  risk assets, providing a balanced  portfolio.  Dr and Mrs A had agreed with 
BFM that their overall ATR could be described as medium. And Ive not seen anything to 
make me think that the overall portfolio  recommended by BFM was outside  those 
parameters.
The investment target that Dr and Mrs A had agreed  with S was for their fund to achieve  a 
return of LIBOR + 3%. I can see that level of return wasnt achieved over the time S was 
managing their portfolio. But I can also see that S was challenged on a number of occasions  
by BFM  to explain why the fund wasnt meeting the target returns Dr and Mrs A had agreed. 
And I can see that S met with Dr and Mrs A to discuss the fund performance in greater 
detail.
I can understand that Dr and Mrs A are disappointed by the returns  they have seen  from 
their investments. Whilst they have achieved positive returns, they have fallen short  of the 
target Ive described above. But I think it important to note that this was only a target  
Dr and Mrs A werent given any guarantees, or indications of a guarantee, that their 
investments would achieve  the target returns.  And I havent seen anything  that makes  me 
think S was negligent  in its management of Dr and Mrs As pension funds and so was 
responsible for the underperformance.
I think that BFMs advice to Dr and Mrs A to move their pension funds from the original 
provider to S was reasonable. The funds  were held in a SIPP and simply moved  to a new 
SIPP arrangement with S. And the comparison that BFM provided to Dr and Mrs A at the 
time suggested that by using S to both administer and invest the funds they would save on 
the annual administration fees they needed to pay. The cost of the advice that BFM  provided  
would be covered by those  savings within less than one year.  
Ref: DRN94141583Overall I think  that the recommendation  given  to Dr and Mrs A to move  their SIPPs to S was 
reasonable. And Ive not seen anything that makes  me think  the investment portfolio they 
were recommended  didnt  fit their circumstances or attitude to risk. Although  it is 
disappointing that their investments didnt achieve  the target return  they had agreed I think 
BFM provided Dr and Mrs A with detailed and timely  information  about the performance of 
their investments and facilitated comprehensive  discussions  with S about the reasons for the 
underperformance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Bruce Bennett.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Dr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9414158