K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Pic and its agents  handled
their home insurance claim. Their policy was administered by an underwriting agency,  but
Ive only referred to AXA and their loss adjuster in this decision for the sake  of ease.
Background
Mr and Mrs Js second home in the UK was covered under a home insurance policy with
AXA and they made a claim for damage  caused to it in a fire in August 2018. Mr and Mrs P
live overseas and this meant they had to tie in certain things that needed to be done to
allow the repairs to happen with visits to the UK.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. The loss adjuster contacted a friend of
Mr and Mrs Js to gain access to the property, so that he could survey  the damage  to the
building and contents and decide  what needed to be done. There  were multiple delays in
trying to get a cleaning  contractor to start, cleaning the building  and salvaging  the contents.
Mrs J arranged several flights  back to the UK to tie in with the cleaning  contractors work, but
had to rearrange these  due to poor claims management and communication from the loss
adjuster. There was also some confusion  over whether Mr and Mrs J had contents cover,
although a cash  payment  reflecting the fact their contents were  uninsured  was eventually
agreed. Although part of this payment seems  to have been unnecessarily delayed.
The loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs J they could arrange their own contractor to complete the
works to the property,  but didnt make  it clear to them  that the amount AXA would pay would
be limited to what one of its preferred contractors would charge using preferential rates.
Mr and Mrs J were only provided with two bedrooms in a hotel for themselves and their two
children on most occasions when  they visited the UK and couldnt use their property. On one
occasion they hired self-catering accommodation, but AXA only agreed to pay what it would
have cost for it to arrange a hotel towards the cost of this.
Things dragged  on and by mid-November repairs to the property hadnt  been started. Mr and
Mrs J wanted to use the property at Christmas  for a family get together and they made this
clear to AXA and the loss adjuster. But despite this, repairs werent completed and the 
property wasnt even  properly cleaned and prepared for their visit at Christmas. In fact
Mr and Mrs J had to buy new items of furniture and blinds  and carry the furniture up and
down stairs  themselves to allow them to use the property and for the work that needed to
then be carried out after Christmas to be completed.
In the end, Mr and Mrs J made  a formal complaint to AXA. It investigated  their complaint and
apologised for the delays  and issues and offered £300 in compensation for distress and
inconvenience. Mr and Mrs J werent happy  with this and complained to us. The repairs  to
their home were eventually  completed,  although not without further  problems. But this was
the subject of a further complaint, which our investigator considered as a separate case.
After reviewing this complaint the second  investigator who looked  at it recommended AXA
pay a further £250  in compensation to Mr and Mrs J for distress and inconvenience for the
period August 2018 to January 2019, plus £302.50  to make up the shortfall on what Mr and
Mrs J paid for their self-catering  accommodation on the basis AXA used the wrong hotel rate
to work out what was due for this.
AXA agreed to pay the extra towards  the accommodation and paid this to Mr and Mrs J. But
Ref: DRN92102052it wouldnt agree  to pay the additional  compensation. So the case was referred  to me for a
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 February  2021  in which  I said the following in the 
provisional findings section:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent gone into a great  amount of detail in the background  to this complaint and Im not
going to go into a lot of detail in this section either. This is because  the sequence of events is
well known  to both parties and I think its clear  from this and the fact that AXA has already
offered compensation that AXAs loss adjuster  didnt  handle Mr and Mrs Js claim at all well.
This was a fairly  straightforward  fire damage claim  and I think under normal  circumstances
repairs could have  been at least ready to start within a couple of months of the fire and
completed by Christmas  at the very latest. I appreciate there was a delay while  AXA were
waiting for the fire report, but I am satisfied from reading what Mr and Mrs J have said and
reviewing AXAs claim notes that there were numerous delays and communication problems
due to the poor performance of the appointed loss adjuster. I also appreciate Mr and Mrs J
originally chose to use their own contractor, but I dont think  they understood that this might
mean AXA wouldnt cover  all the costs. From  what Ive seen  the loss adjuster didnt make it
clear at the outset that AXAs settlement would be based on the preferential rates provided
by its contractors. And I think this also caused  an unnecessary delay.
I also think AXA was wrong  to only allow enough for Mr and Mrs J to stay in a budget  hotel
when they were in the UK and couldnt  use their property. I say this because Id expect
alternative accommodation to be of a similar type to the damaged property. This is because
this is what the policy  says should happen.  And if this wasnt possible on a short -term  basis
Mr and Mrs J should have  been  given the option  to find suitable  self-catering
accommodation and not be stuck in a budget hotel.
The settlement  of Mr and Mrs Js contents  claim was also unnecessarily  delayed and this
caused them  further inconvenience and unnecessary  expense.
As a result of poor handling  Mr and Mrs J endured months of frustration  and inconvenience
and had to spend Christmas in a property  that wasnt  really  fit for use. Plus,  they had to
move furniture themselves because  repairs werent completed in time. In view of the length
of time it took to get the repairs organised and the distress and inconvenience involved I
dont think AXAs payment of £300  is enough.  And I think  a further payment of £400 is
appropriate. This will make the compensation AXA pays for distress and inconvenience
£700, which I think is fair and reasonable. This reflects the loss of use of Mr and Mrs Js
home, the fact they had to put up with a budget hotel when they should have been in self-
catering accommodation,  the fact they had to re-arrange visits requiring long-haul flights,  the
constant chasing of the loss adjuster to get things moving and the lack of communication  on
his part generally.  All on top of having to cope with the stress of having had a fire at their
home and a very sad situation with a close relative.
This compensation is only in respect of the period from August to January, as thats the
period Ive considered on this complaint. And - as Ive said - Mr and Mrs J have already
been correctly  reimbursed for what they had to contribute towards  their alternative
accommodation.
Ref: DRN92102053And I said Id provisionally decided  to award  a further £400  in compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. I gave  both parties until 4 March 2021 to provide further  comments and 
evidence. 
Mrs J replied to say she and Mr J had nothing to add and that they were happy  with my 
findings. AXA has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs J nor AXA have  anything further to add I can see no reason to reach 
a different conclusion to the one set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision dated 18 February 2021, Ive decided  to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. And AXA Insurance  UK Plc must pay them a further £400 
in compensation  for distress and inconvenience. 
AXA should  do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr and Mrs J have accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add simple interest to the compensation at a rate 
of 8% per year, from the date of my decision to the date it makes  the payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2021.
Robert Short
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9210205