K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Miss T have  complained to us that they were mis-sold  a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy they took out with Welcome Finance Services  Limited  
(Welcome) in November  2003. The policy was taken out in connection with a secured  loan 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Welcome says it isnt responsible for the sale of the PPI. It says the policy  was in fact sold by 
Business A, which is a separate  company. 
Mr K and Miss T dont  accept they dealt  with Business A when they bought the policy. As far 
as they are concerned, the loan transaction and the sale of the PPI was carried  out by 
Welcome. But our adjudicator concluded  that the complaint wasnt one we could consider. 
This was because hed seen  evidence  to show Business A had sold Mr K and Miss T the 
PPI. 
In my provisional decision dated  21 December 2018  I explained why I considered  that 
Welcome wasnt  responsible for the complaint.
I set out an extract  below:
Is Welcome  responsible  for the sale of the PPI?
Ive looked at the available evidence and information from the sale to help me answer this 
question.
From what  Ive seen, I am currently  satisfied  that Welcome acted only as the lender who 
financed the loan that Mr K and Miss T took out  not as the seller of the PPI to them.  So 
Welcome didnt sell the PPI. And although Welcome was a party to the credit agreement, 
this was in its capacity as lender. 
Ive also noticed  the policy says it had been arranged by Welcome. Weve looked  at a large 
number of sales like this. From what weve seen, I consider this only reflects the fact that the 
insurer would underwrite PPI for customers wishing to protect  loans theyd taken with 
Welcome. So thats  not the same as saying  that Welcome had sold the PPI. 
Also, the paperwork from Business A for processing the sale describes Welcome  as the 
lender and Business A as being the broker for the sale.
Business A has sent me details showing that it received  a brokers  commission  from 
Welcome for selling PPI to Mr K and Miss T. I consider this to be further  evidence  that shows  
Welcome wasnt  responsible for the sale of the policy.
 
I therefore consider  that Welcome isnt responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mr K and Miss 
T.
Ref: DRN96732492developments
Mr K and Miss T wrote  to us to confirm theyd received my provisional decision but asked for 
some more time to respond.  I agreed to this but they didnt send us anything  more by the 
deadline Id set. 
Welcome confirmed receiving my provisional decision but didnt have anything further to 
add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr K and Miss T nor Welcome have given me any additional evidence or 
information to consider,  my decision remains that Welcome isnt responsible  for the sale. 
And it follows that Welcome also cant be held responsible for a potential mis-sale of the 
policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied Welcome  Financial Services  Limited  isnt responsible  
for the sale of the PPI. And so I dont up uphold  Mr K and Miss Ts complaint against 
Welcome Financial Services  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9673249