K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Covea Insurance plc. He isnt happy about the way it settled a 
claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr A was involved  in an accident  in January 2019 which he reported to Covea. It looked into 
the claim and held Mr A at fault for the accident.  But Mr A wasnt  happy  about this as he 
thought the other driver was responsible as they were speeding.  So he complained to Covea 
and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A but didnt uphold the complaint. She was of the 
view that even if the other driver  was speeding,  as Mr A alleged, then he would most  likely 
be held liable for the accident. This was because he had encroached into the other drivers 
lane when the accident happened.
As Mr A didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand Mr As frustration here,  as he was at the scene of the accident and knows  
what happened and what the other driver  said. And he says the other  driver told him that 
they were doing  nearly 30 miles per hour in a 20 zone.
Covea, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows  them to take over 
the settlement  of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether  to proceed to court  or 
settle a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers  are cautious 
about going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood  of success  
in making these decisions.
This service doesnt decide liability, as this is a matter for the courts. But we do look to 
ensure insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters  and that they make a 
reasonable assessment of the claim.  Based on a clear understanding  of the evidence  and 
circumstances surrounding  the accident.  With this in mind,  I have carefully  considered how 
Covea has handled  this claim.
Covea appointed an investigator and undertook  a detailed assessment of the scene and the 
location. The investigator provided  a detailed report and said he was fully aware that Mr A 
didnt think he was at fault for the accident  and that the other driver was over the speed limit. 
But he thought  Covea would have to accept liability as ultimately  the Insured has emerged 
from a minor road in to the Third Partys path and even though he was stationary he was still 
encroaching in to the Third Partys  lane. So, the investigator who considered all of the 
evidence and interviewed Mr A thought that it would be difficult  to dispute liability.  
Having considered all of this and pictures of the scene Covea accepted liability.  I know  Mr A 
continues to dispute this and maintains that the other side was speeding. And I can 
understand his frustration  that the other  side hasnt provided a detailed  account to his 
Ref: DRN91098862insurer. But as the other  driver was established on the road, I dont think it would  be easy  to 
hold them fully liable.
I say this as establishing the exact  speed  a driver was doing isnt easy. I know Mr A says the 
other driver told him they were doing a little over the speed limit. But even if that was the 
case Mr A had edged  out into oncoming traffic  so it would  be difficult for Covea to defend 
Mr As position at court. 
This is because the onus  was on Mr A to ensure that the path was clear before edging  into 
the lane and the path of the other  driver. I understand  Mr A had already crossed a line of 
traffic that was at a stand still and was moving out to the second lane which  he thought was 
clear. But unfortunately,  it wasnt  as clear as he thought and even if the other driver was over 
the speed limit, I think he would still be held at least partly at fault for the accident  if the 
matter went to court. 
Finally, I know  Mr A has mentioned that this fault claim  will affect his premiums  and it will. 
But even if the claim was marked as non-fault this would have impacted Mr As future 
premium as any claim or incident  can impact on risk, and so premiums. However, as I dont 
think Covea has acted  unreasonably in deciding  liability I wont  be asking it to do anything 
further or to change  how the claim has been  settled.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9109886