K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  about Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.  He was unhappy  because  
the bank:
-refused to allow him a payment holiday on his mortgage; and
-it took additional mortgage payments from his bank account after his direct  debits 
bounced.
background
In November 2018, Mr W lost his job. A few days later he rang Halifax, and asked if he could 
have a payment  holiday  on his mortgage.  Mr W said the adviser initially  agreed, but then 
asked why he wanted the payment holiday. When Mr W told her hed been sacked, the 
adviser passed Mr W to another department, where  he was told he couldnt  have  a payment 
holiday. Mr W complained.
In Halifaxs November reply to Mr Ws complaint,  it agreed that Mr W had received poor 
customer service  when  he first rang.  It paid him £50 compensation  for the poor service,  plus 
£5 for call costs. But Halifax  said Mr W didnt meet the criteria to have a payment holiday. It 
explained that it couldnt grant a payment holiday because hed lost his job and had no 
income. Halifax said it could put customers into further detriment if it did this. But there were 
other options for customers  in financial difficulties  for example a nil payment plan, or a 
reduced payment  plan,  though these  could adversely affect  a customers  credit  file, and 
could lead to arrears building up. Halifax suggested that Mr W should get in touch with its 
payment advice team and provided  the contact details.
On 3 December  Mr Ws mortgage payment bounced. Halifax  wrote to Mr W about  this, 
sending a standard letter which advised  that the bank would try again to collect  the money  in 
10 days time. Mr W spoke to Halifax on 7 December. But he didnt tell Halifax  that he 
planned to go to a branch to pay the missing amount,  which he did on 9 December. This 
meant that when Halifax made its second attempt  to collect  the payment, Mr W had paid two 
payments in December.  So at the end of December his account was one month in advance.
Mr Ws 3 January payment bounced  too. As Mr Ws mortgage had been one month in 
advance, this evened things out and his mortgage  was up to date. But when Mr W spoke to 
Halifax on 10 January,  Halifax failed to tell him that its automated  system would try to collect 
the bounced direct debit  again, on 16 January.
Mr W went into his branch  the next day, and the branch manager arranged for the money to 
be paid back into Mr Ws bank account. When Mr W complained  about this, Halifax paid him 
£200 compensation.
Mr W wasnt satisfied  with what had happened. He complained to this service about:
-being refused  a payment holiday; and
-Halifax taking additional payments  from his bank account.
-
Mr W was also unhappy about getting  letters and phone calls about  his arrears, and said 
that Halifax had damaged  his credit rating.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that:
Ref: DRN97017142-Halifaxs policy about payment holidays made it clear that it wouldnt be allowed if a 
customer had indicated they were in financial difficulties. Mr W had told Halifax  he 
was unemployed,  and wasnt  looking for a new job because he was appealing 
against his dismissal from his job;
-Halifaxs final response  letter had advised Mr W to contact  the banks payment 
assistance line. And it had said that there  wouldnt be fees or legal proceedings if Mr 
W kept to any arrangement. But any arrears  would have to be reported to the credit  
agencies;
-Halifax had paid Mr W a total of £255  for distress and inconvenience, and costs, 
arising from the payment problems. He considered this was fair.
Mr W said he was shocked and disgusted  by the investigators findings. He said Halifax had 
stolen his £271.23 mortgage  payment. As a result, hed had his bank card refused at his 
local supermarket, which  had been  embarrassing.  Mr W said Halifax hadnt returned the 
money, nor had it apologised. He was also unhappy about receiving arrears  letters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Being refused a payment holiday
Banks can set their own policies about  when to allow  payment holidays.  Ive looked at 
Halifaxs policy. This specifically says that its important that a customer  hasnt said theyre in 
financial difficulties. It explains that payment  holidays are a short-term solution for a short-
term need. 
Mr W had told Halifax that hed lost his job, and he wasnt looking for other work because 
hed put in an appeal against his dismissal. So the reason he wanted it was because  of 
financial difficulties. And there was no immediate and guaranteed prospect that this would  
definitely be only a short-term problem. So I consider that Mr W didnt  meet the criteria in the 
banks policy.
Id also point out to Mr W that even  if a payment holiday had been granted, interest would 
continue to have  been added to the mortgage  as normal. This means  that, at the end of any 
payment holiday,  the monthly payment gets recalculated  and it goes up, because of the 
payments which  have been missed.  So a payment holiday wouldnt have been as ideal as 
Mr W had hoped.
I recognise that Halifaxs first adviser gave Mr W incorrect information about whether he 
could have a payment  holiday. That was poor customer  service, but I have considered  the 
payment of £250  plus £5 call costs  which  Halifax paid Mr W. I consider  this was fair 
compensation for the first advisers mistake.  
Payment issues 
Ive set out above the events around  Mr Ws direct  debits in late 2018 and early 2019.  I can 
see that Mr W is very upset that Halifax made second attempts to collect the direct  debit, 
particularly in December  when hed paid the bounced monthly instalment on 9 December.
Ref: DRN97017143But Halifaxs  letters  about the bounced  direct  debits do specifically say that the bank would 
try to collect the money 10 days later. So it would have been helpful  if Mr W had told Halifax  
he planned to make the payment himself  on 9 December, when he rang Halifax  about their 
letter. I consider that if he had done, its more likely than not that the bank would have been  
able to stop the automated direct  debit later in December.
Looking at the January bounced  direct  debit, again, Halifaxs  standard letter  advised  Mr W 
that it would  try again 10 days  later.  However, I consider it would have been helpful if Halifax 
had repeated this to Mr W when they spoke on 10 January. Ive considered whether the 
£200 compensation it paid Mr W was fair for this. Ive borne in mind  that when Mr W 
complained to Halifax on 17 December, the bank made arrangements  to refund him. And the 
letter that Mr W received about the January bounced direct  debit had warned Mr W that this 
would happen.  Taking everything  into account,  I consider  the £200 compensation was fair 
for the January payment issues.
Mr W is also angry because he says Halifax has never paid back  this second  December  
payment. But it wasnt  overpaid,  because the January payment initially bounced. Mr W had 
to make a payment  in January, and the one which was later taken was refunded.  So the net 
result was that there was one payment taken for December and one for January. Ive set it 
out in a table for clarity:
3 December direct debit 
bounced
9 December Mr W paid in 
branchDecembers paymentDecember payment
16 December direct debit  
takenOne month in advance
3 January direct debit  
bouncedPrevious advance cancelled 
out by this bounced direct 
debit.
Mortgage no arrears or 
advance.January payment 
16 January direct debit  taken Refunded to Mr Ws bank  
Other issues
Mortgage customers have  a contract  with their lender, saying  theyll make the agreed 
payments. If they dont,  a lender can get in touch to talk about  the missing  payments. So I 
dont find that Halifax was wrong when it sent arrears letters  and phoned Mr W.
Mr W is also unhappy about his arrears being reported to the credit reference  agencies. All 
lenders have a duty to report accurate information  to credit reference agencies.  I havent 
seen Mr Ws credit file, so I dont know what was recorded. But Halifax had a duty to report  
all arrears.
Finally, the letters from Halifax to Mr W suggest that its payment advice team  would be able 
to discuss options  to help during his financial difficulties. Its not clear to me whether or not 
Mr W has done this, but if he hasnt, I suggest  he might  find it useful to do so. The 
investigator also provided Mr W with details of a debt charity which he might  wish to contact.
Ref: DRN97017144my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9701714