K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the service they got from Barclays Bank UK PLC when  they 
took out a new mortgage. Mr and Mrs R would  like Barclays to refund £6,249.23.
background 
Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Barclays in March 2018 and arranged to set up 
payment by direct debit.  Initially the broker provided  incorrect account details to Barclays 
which meant the first payment came  out of another  account of the borrowers. Mr and Mrs R 
contacted Barclays  on 16 April 2018  to amend the account details and Barclays  sent a letter 
the following  day to confirm the changes.
Unfortunately, Barclays again  took the payments for May, June and July from the wrong 
account. Mr and Mrs R complained and Barclays said it would update  the system and 
agreed to pay £200 in compensation.
The payment in August was again  taken from the wrong account. Mr and Mrs R contacted 
Barclays and were  told the issue would be looked into. But Barclays  took the direct  debit 
from the wrong account again in September. Mr and Mrs R emailed their concerns to 
Barclays CEO. Barclays then investigated the matter and wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 11 
September 2018. Its explanation was that each time it called for the direct debit Mr and Mrs 
Rs bank  which wasnt a Barclays branch   issued an instruction for Barclays to apply to 
take the money from the wrong  account. Barclays did offer to increase its compensation 
offered to £400.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. His view was that Barclays level of service was 
unacceptable and that Mr and Mrs R shouldnt have been put to the inconvenience  of 
repeatedly contacting Barclays over a period of six months. His view was that this complaint 
should be upheld  and that Barclays should  increase its compensation to £500 in total.  
Barclays accepted  that view. Mr and Mrs R disagreed saying in summary that £500 doesnt  
adequately compensate them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted by all parties that during the six months after the Mr and Mrs R opened their 
mortgage account that Barclays provided a poor level of service in relation to how it collected 
the monthly payments from Mr and Mrs R. It continued to take payments  from the wrong 
account whilst assuring Mr and Mrs R that were  in order.  It didnt  properly investigate  the 
matter until Mr and Mrs R contacted the CEO and then was able to provide an explanation of 
what was going  wrong.  This must have been  frustrating, disappointing  and inconvenient  for 
Mr and Mrs R.
Barclays has offered compensation. The question is how much.  Mr and Mrs R would like all 
the interest they paid during this period to be refunded on the basis  that Barclays has 
breached its duty to them and not acted fairly  and professionally to them  during this period. 
But Mr and Mrs Rs interest payments to Barclays are because they borrowed money from 
Ref: DRN97493722Barclays. As Barclays has lent the money  it is entitled to charge for it and I cant  see why it 
would be fair to require  Barclays  to refund  it. So, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs R that 
Barclays should refund the interest  payments
Mr R says that he suffered prolonged emotional  distress constituting  pain and suffering. But 
Mr R doesnt produce  any medical  evidence to confirm   that he suffered a stress related 
illness because of this such as would justify compensation for pain and suffering. So, whilst  
Im sympathetic to Mr and Mrs R and adapt  the comments made  by our adjudicator about 
how this matter was handled  by Barclays, I am of the view that £500  fairly compensates 
Mr and Mrs R. On that basis  I uphold this complaint. I see that Barclays has already paid 
£200 so I will make an order for the balance to be paid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr and Mrs R £300
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9749372