K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Stagemount Limited  (trading as Quid Market)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 1st May 
2020. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I wont  repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  and what  
Quid Market needed  to do to put things right. I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.  
Mr C responded on 1st May 2020, and said he agreed with my findings  and accepts them.  
Quid Market responded  and although  it didnt make any new points, it reiterated its view 
about this complaint and the checks that it had carried out. Although  I am only summarising 
here what Quid Market has said, I have considered its entire  response  carefully  before 
writing this decision.
Quid Market reasserted  that it didnt do anything  wrong when it agree to give Mr C the two 
loans. It says the loans  were affordable  for Mr C based on what he told it. It has also 
referenced a different  complaint that our service has looked into and said my findings are out 
of line with this and previous ombudsman findings.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quid Market says it did nothing wrong when it agreed to give the two loans to Mr C. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  the findings  of the credit search report for loan 1 ought 
to have caused Quid Market concerns that Mr C was having problems managing his 
finances. As such there was a real risk that Mr C wasnt going  to be able to sustainably 
repay loan 1. So as a responsible lender, I dont think Quid  Market should have agreed  loan 
1 or any loans after that point (loan 2).
The complaint Quid Market has referenced has different circumstances to this one. Our 
service looks at each case on its merits and that is what I have done here. 
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Quid Market now needs to put things  right with regards to loans 1 and 2. 
putting things right
Quid Market should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 1 and 2;
Ref: DRN98285182pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 and 2 on Mr Cs credit file; 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid  
Market must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Cs complaint and direct Stagemount Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before  27  June  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98285183EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr C has complained about  two loans he took out with Stagemount Limited  (trading as Quid Market). 
He says the loans were  unaffordable.
Background
Mr C took two loans from Quid  Market between January 2018 and April 2018.  A summary of Mr Cs 
borrowing is shown below: 
LoanDate  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 15/01/2018 05/03/2018 6 £400.00 £118.82
2 12/04/2018 outstanding 5 £500.00 £167.82
Mr C has an amount left to pay on loan 2. 
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Cs complaint  be not upheld. Mr C disagreed and said Quid Market 
should have seen within its credit checks that he held many other loans at the time it agreed he could 
have loan 1. He says it would have also seen he had a high amount of unsecured debt. He says Quid  
Market shouldnt have agreed the loans.
As Mr C didnt agree,  the complaint has come to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im thinking about reaching  the 
same outcome as the adjudicator  but wanted to explain  how the business  should  put things right in 
more detail.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Quid  Market lent to 
Mr C. The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)  is the specialist sourcebook  for credit related  
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Quid Market.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance,  the risk to the consumer directly relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness  would 
likely need to be flexible.  That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, 
or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance  might not be so for the same  
consumer in other  circumstances.
Ref: DRN98285184Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might  point  to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include, but are not 
limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Quid Market  told us it asked for details  of Mr Cs income  and expenses when it agreed loan 1 and 2. It 
also carried out a credit  search.  This was the start of the lending relationship between the two parties. 
Mr C provided details  about  his income and expenditure. The information  he had declared about  his 
disposable income  meant  that the amount he was asking  to borrow  for loans 1 and 2 and the 
repayments would have appeared  affordable. 
Bearing in mind  this was at the start of the lending relationship  between Mr C and Quid Market and 
taking into account the loan repayment in relation to Mr Cs declared  income;  the checks  - at first 
glance - might have appeared  proportionate.
However, the credit  search carried out by Quid Market for loan 1 that I have seen indicated Mr C had 
a high balance of unsecured  debt.  There  was also 15 active accounts showing on the credit search 
results and 9 had been  opened within 6 months. The credit report Quid Market  had carried out was 
detailed and listed all of the credit that Mr C had held both open and closed at that time. There were 
listed, 4 short term loans that were open at the time Mr C was asking them  for loan 1. There were 
clear signs,  in my view, that Mr C had had some  quite  serious problems managing  his money  based 
on what was listed in the credit search results that Quid Market had in front of them.
The findings  of the credit  search report for loan 1 ought to have caused Quid  Market concerns  that Mr 
Cs problems managing  money were not historical  but rather problems  managing  his finances at that 
moment. As such there was a real risk that Mr C wasnt going to be able to sustainably  repay  loan 1.
So as a responsible lender,  I dont think Quid Market should have agreed  loan 1 or any loans after 
that point  (loan 2) and should put things right.
Ref: DRN9828518