K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how his insurer, Mapfre Asistencia Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. handled his claim when he had to cut short his holiday.
background
Mr H bought a travel  insurance policy with Mapfre. Mr H was travelling to Australia for a 
holiday with a friend. Mr H is disabled and says he needed to travel  with his friend  acting as 
his carer.  
Sadly, not long after arriving  in Australia,  Mr Hs friend/carer  suffered a family bereavement  
and had to return  home.  That meant Mr H decided he needed to return  home too.  
Mr H says he got in touch with Mapfre to let them know what  had happened.  He changed the 
arrangements for his flight home  and submitted a claim  to Mapfre.
Mapfre assessed the claim and sent Mr H a payment in settlement. It reimbursed  Mr H for 
the costs of changing his flight back to the UK, minus the policy excess.  Mr H says hes very 
unhappy with the amount Mapfre has paid. Hes also said hes concerned  Mapfre has 
discriminated against him because of his disability. He says as his policy would  have allowed 
him to arrange for another carer to join him, hes saved Mapfre money so it should honour 
his claim in its entirety.
Mapfre says it has paid Mr H the correct amount due to him under the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think  the costs Mr H wanted to 
reclaim  accommodation and daily living  expenses  - were  reasonable extra  travel  costs 
covered by the policy. He thought the accommodation and daily living  costs  were costs 
Mr H would expect to incur on his trip.
Mr H remains  unhappy so its now for me to reach  a final decision on whats happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by the parties  but will only comment on those elements I consider key to this complaint.
As part of my review  of this complaint, Ive also considered the terms and conditions  of 
Mr Hs policy  and industry guidance  (ICOBS). ICOBS 8.1.1R says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
Ref: DRN96491042(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed   and I want to assure him Ive taken  everything  hes 
said into account - but based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator and for 
the same  reasons. Let me explain.
Cutting short his holiday
Mr Hs policy  provides  cover for cancelling  and cutting short his holiday. 
There are a significant number of reasons  given  in the policy  document that explain when  a 
claim for cancellation and curtailment would be considered, for example: 
Sections of insurance 
A - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday  
What you are covered for 
The following  are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip: 
1. You die, become seriously ill or get injured. 
2. A relative (see Definition on page  12), business associate, a person you have 
booked to travel with or a relative  or friend living abroad, who you plan to stay with, 
dies, becomes seriously ill or gets injured.  
3. You have  to go to court to be a witness or be on a jury (but not as an expert 
witness) or you are put in quarantine. 
4. There is an accident involving  a vehicle you were planning to travel in, which  
happens within seven  days  before  the date you planned to leave and means you 
cannot use the vehicle. This only applies to self-drive holidays. 
5. You are a member of the armed forces,  police, fire, nursing or ambulance  services  
and you have to stay in your home  area because of an emergency  or you are posted 
overseas unexpectedly.  
The policy doesnt  cover  the circumstances where Mr Hs friend/carer had to return to the UK 
due to the death of his relative.  But Mapfre agreed to consider the claim as Mr H explained 
he needed his friend/carer  with him to be able to continue with his holiday. I think that was a 
fair decision for Mapfre to make in the circumstances.
Everyday living expenses  while waiting to return to the UK
Mr H is unhappy Mapfre hasnt agreed to reimburse him for the costs  of his everyday living 
expenses while he was waiting to return to the UK.
Ref: DRN96491043The policy terms say:
If you have to cancel  or cut short your trip  we will pay up to the amount shown  in the 
table of benefits: 
Unused travel and accommodation  expenses  that you have paid or have agreed 
to pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including  any local 
prepaid excursions,  tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid 
cancelling or cutting short your trip; and 
Reasonable extra travel costs  if it is necessary  and you cannot avoid cutting short  
your trip
Ms Hs complaint about this part of his claim falls into two main areas:
He says he didnt  have any pre-paid costs as the plan was for him and his 
friend/carer to travel around Australia in a camper van owned by his friend,  and to 
find stopping points  along the way. This would likely mean Mr H didnt have any costs 
other than fuel, food and drink.
Ms H says he had to stay near the airport  in order to arrange his flight home.  He 
therefore considers  the accommodation and living  costs (food  and drinks  etc) he 
incurred reasonable extra travel costs  that Mapfre should  reimburse;  he says all of 
those costs were reasonable .
Ive considered Mr Hs points very careful.   
Im satisfied  Mr Hs representations on his travel  plans  are credible. Mr H has 
confirmed he had no pre-booked accommodation for his trip and hasnt provided 
confirmation of any bookings for accommodation. Because  of that, Im satisfied his 
use of a camper van can be considered accommodation for the purposes of his 
journey. 
But because that, he doesnt have any unused travel and accommodation expenses  
to claim. The only accommodation  costs he has incurred are for accommodation 
used during the few days of his stay.
And in terms of reasonable extra travel costs  Mapfre has covered the additional  
costs Mr H incurred to change his flight to allow him to return  home  early,  albeit  with 
a deduction for the policy excess.
And even  if Mr H was travelling in his friends camper van, Im not persuaded that 
journey isnt without  cost.  Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Hs friend  had committed 
to paying for all the fuel and food and drinks  for Mr H for his entire  holiday.  It seems 
reasonable to assume Mr H would have been  covering at least some of these costs.  
Mr H has said he wasnt expecting to pay hotel or hostel charges, but Im not 
satisfied Mr H expected  to spend time in Australia  without incurring any costs for his 
accommodation at all.
Because of that Im not satisfied, the costs he incurred for the few days in Australia - 
his alternative accommodation  and food and drinks - can be considered extra travel 
costs. 
Ref: DRN96491044Cover for a replacement carer
Mr H says as his policy covers him for a replacement carer  up to £1000  - Mapfre should 
consider his claim in its entirety as he decided to return  home,  and save Mapfre money 
rather than arrange  for a replacement carer. 
The policy terms about a replacement carer says:
B  Medical and other expenses
If your carer  should fall ill and be hospitalised  and therefore be unable  to continue 
their duties, we will pay up to £1,000 in total for the travelling costs  incurred in 
respect of a replacement carer joining  you in order that you may continue  with the 
remainder of your trip. 
As Mr Hs carer  didnt fall ill, and wasnt hospitalised,  this aspect of the policy benefits 
doesnt apply.  And I dont  consider it reasonable to tell Mapfre  to make  a payment just 
because a different  term in the policy carries a financial benefit, when the terms of that 
benefit have not been met.
Summary
Mr H has specifically said hed deliberately not bought  a cheap, off-the-shelf policy in order  
to ensure he was adequately covered. And I fully understand  why the type of cover he 
wanted was important to him, given his travel  plans and his need for the support of a carer.
But travel insurance policies dont cover  all eventualities and are generally  designed  to meet  
a financial loss suffered  by the policy holder. The individual policy  terms determine under 
what circumstances a claim can be considered.
I know Mr H will be unhappy by my findings.  I can understand how disappointing it was for 
him to have  to cut short his holiday  and especially in such  unexpected and sad 
circumstances. But based on everything  Ive seen,  I consider Mapfre has treated Mr Hs 
claim fairly and reasonably given the specific circumstances of this complaint.  
In terms of Mr Hs concerns that Mapfre has treated him less favourably because of his 
disability, it follows that as Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, I cannot say Ive seen 
evidence of discrimination in the way his claim has been handled.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont  be asking Mapfre  Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.to do any more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649104