K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about the level of service  received  from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  (LV) when she claimed on her home insurance policy. 
background
Ms T said she had a leak at her home  in June 2016  which she believed  was the result of a 
storm. LV appointed  a loss adjustor to find out how the leak was caused.  Ms T said she was 
told the leak was due to an issue with the guttering and her roof. 
LV didnt accept  a claim for storm damage due to this, but accepted the claim for internal 
damage caused as a result, under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
LV said the roof would need to be repaired before other works could begin.  Ms T said 
because the repairs  to the roof werent covered under the policy,  she asked LV whether she 
could use the contractor that it used to inspect the damage originally. Ms T said this was 
agreed. 
Ms T said she paid the contractor to complete the necessary  repairs  in May 2017.  But 
shortly after the repairs  were carried out, Ms T said rain water  leaked through  her roof and 
damaged her property.  
Ms T complained to LV about the work  that was completed by the contractor. But LV said it 
wasnt responsible  for the work that had been completed as it wasnt  something that was 
done under  the policy. 
Ms T hired a different  contractor who repaired a section of the roof, but work stopped when it 
was found that part of the roof was bowing. Ms T said the money she had to pay was an 
additional £3,000 but didnt have this available and so the work was unable  to recommence. 
Ms T complained to LV and has been in dispute  with it since 2017.  Shes  unhappy LV said it 
wouldnt complete  any work until the roof is repaired, but has refused to cover it. Ms T is also 
unhappy with the poor workmanship carried out by the contractors that she felt LV 
recommended. 
LV said it couldnt  be held responsible  for the poor workmanship to Ms Ts roof. It maintains 
that, whilst  the contractor is associated with LV, Ms T took the decision to pay to use the 
contractor. And the work completed  was non claim related and carried  out privately. 
LV offered  to pay Ms T a cash settlement so she could complete the works to repair the 
accidental damage  to her property. But Ms T felt the offer was too low. LV said deductions  
were made to the cash settlement  as some works had already  been completed at her 
property. 
Ms T returned the cheque to LV as she didnt  agree  with the amount it offered. LV said it 
would complete the works to repair the damage at Ms Ts home.  But it said it would only be 
able to continue  with the works once the roof had been fully repaired. 
Ms T said that she lets out rooms at her home to supplement her income  that she gets from 
her home-based  business.  LV agreed to cover the costs she lost out on as a result of the 
claim. LV offered  to pay this to Ms T for another five weeks from it offering a cash  
Ref: DRN90593142settlement. But Ms T said this wasnt enough  time for her to source a contractor  to complete 
repairs to the roof. But LV said that it cannot pay these costs  to Ms T indefinitely.  It also said 
once the roof had been repaired, it would then continue to cover these costs  for the duration 
of the internal repairs. 
Because of the claim and the damage  being  caused to the internal part of Ms Ts home,  she 
had to put her belongings in storage. LV said it was paying for Ms T to keep  her contents in 
storage. It offered to continue to cover these costs once the internal  repairs commence, 
through to completion. 
Ms T runs her business from her home. She also asked if LV would consider covering the 
costs for her to rent out an office for six months  while the claim was ongoing. LV didnt  agree  
to this; it said this wasnt  something  that was covered by the policy. As Ms T remained 
unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service for investigation.  
Our investigator sent her initial view on the complaint  in September 2018.  In summary, she 
didnt think the damage to Ms Ts roof was due to a storm. And the works  completed  to 
attempt to rectify the roof wasnt  the responsibility of LV as Ms T had the works carried out 
privately. But in order  to try and progress things she made a number  of recommendations:
Our investigator reviewed  everything following further correspondence  and in her second 
view she said LV had handled  the claim fairly  and wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Ms T responded to our investigator to say she disagreed with her view. Ms T said she 
remains of the view that there was a storm in both 2016 and 2017  which  caused damage  to 
the roof. And therefore she considers  LV has acted unfairly  by declining  the claim. Ms T also 
said she had an insurance  contract  with LV, and therefore it should  be held responsible for 
the poor workmanship carried out to her roof. But LV didnt agree with this. 
As no resolution could  be met, the case  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
There are a number of different points that affect this complaint. So to keep things simple, 
Ive set these out separately below and answered  them in turn. 
Ms Ts claim for storm damage 
Our investigator explained that when we look at storm damage cases  we ask three  
questions: 
Were storm  conditions present on or around  the date the damage is said to have 
happened? 
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes? 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we would say a claim should succeed. 
But, if the answer to any of these questions is no, then we usually wouldnt expect such  a 
claim to succeed. 
Ref: DRN90593143Some insurance policies  define a storm. But as Ms Ts policy  does not, Ive carried  out my 
own checks. Its important  to explain that this service considers a storm as violent winds  and 
heavy rainfall. 
Ive checked the records  from 2016 and 2017  when  Ms T reported that a storm had 
occurred. And whilst this service can consider local weather reports  and media links, we find 
reports taken from local weather stations more conclusive in order  to find the most accurate 
reflection of the weather  conditions in a particular area. 
My findings  show records  taken from a weather station 11 miles away  from Ms Ts home. 
The peak gust taken around  the time Ms T said a storm took place was 39 mph. This 
wouldnt be considered  to meet a definition of a storm. Ive also checked  the rainfall which 
showed the maximum rainfall  recorded in an hour was 6.6 mm which also wouldnt meet the 
definition. 
I carried out the same checks in 2017  using the same method. And whilst I appreciate this 
will disappoint Ms T, I cannot agree the conditions present around the time she reported  the 
loss should be considered  as a storm. Peak gusts showed as being 28 mph and rainfall  
showed a maximum of 4.2 mm in an hour.  So, I dont think  LV acted unfairly in either 
instance by declining the claims Ms T made for storm damage.  So I wont require it to do 
anything else here. 
LV required  Ms T to have repairs carried out to the guttering in order to bring her roof up to a 
reasonable condition. It said it would accept  Ms Ts claim for internal  damage under the 
accidental damage  section of the policy. But Ms T was required to have the external works 
completed prior to internal  works commencing.  
Whether LV is liable for the poor workmanship carried out by a third party
The work required to repair  Ms Ts roof wasnt covered  under  the policy. So, Ms T employed 
third party contractors that LV had used to carry out an initial inspection. But the work was 
completed to a poor standard. 
Ms T considered LV should be held responsible for the poor workmanship carried out by the 
contractors. She said this is because the contractors were  initially working on behalf of LV 
and were recommended by it to her when she was told to have  work  carried  out, outside the 
policy. She said the poor workmanship has resulted  in delaying  her claim for accidental  
damage caused internally, and also caused  her to experience financial and emotional  
distress.  
Theres no issue taken that external repairs  were  carried  out inadequately.  I say this 
because an independent report carried out in 2018 confirms this is the case. The report also 
found other external issues with the brickwork  which had failed due to wear  and tear. 
Im mindful this has been a very distressing  and upsetting experience  for Ms T. But I 
disagree that LV should be held responsible  for the poor workmanship carried out by the 
third party contractor. I will explain why. 
Ms T said she was told to have the works required  to rectify her roof carried  out privately. My 
understanding is Ms T wanted  to use the same contractors LV employed to assess  the roof 
Ref: DRN90593144initially because they had already seen the damage  to it and understood what work was 
required. I appreciate  why Ms T chose  to do this. 
Ms T said the third party contractors were appointed by LV and therefore working to resolve 
things on its behalf.  She therefore considers as the contractors were working on behalf  of 
LV, it should  take responsibility. 
Im satisfied the work was carried out privately and paid for by Ms T. LV didnt instruct  the 
contractors to carry out the work  to rectify the issues with the roof. And it is only responsible  
for any insured  works carried out under  the policy. As the work  wasnt  carried out under  the 
policy, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold LV responsible for this. So I disagree with Ms 
T and dont  hold LV responsible for work completed outside  of the policy  terms and paid for 
independently by Ms T. Therefore,  any complaints  Ms T had about poor workmanship would 
need to be addressed to the third party contractors she employed privately to carry out the 
work. 
delays to commencing internal repairs under accidental damage  
It is unfortunate delays  occurred as a result of the inability to dry Ms Ts property due to the 
external repairs not being fulfilled. I appreciate Ms T uses her home  for business  and rents  
out three of the bedrooms. But shes not been able to do this due to the ongoing issues  and 
said her business  has been affected, as she cannot  work  efficiently due to the condition  of 
her office.  
LV provided a report which  showed  that further water ingress and damage would likely occur 
as a result  of poor workmanship to the external repairs. As further damage was likely  to 
occur as a result of this, I dont think LV acted unreasonably by delaying  internal repairs  until 
an effective and long lasting repair was completed. 
It agreed that damaged caused in 2017  related to failed repairs rather  than requiring Ms T to 
submit a new claim and pay an additional excess.  Because of this it said the 2017 claim 
would be removed from Ms Ts claim history  and no further excess would be charged.  And 
the additional internal  damage would be covered under  the original claim made under Ms Ts 
accidental damage  cover. 
Ms T said she hadnt been able to complete the further repairs  to the external damage 
because of the cost,  and remained of the opinion that LV should take responsibility for the 
poor workmanship. But as above, I dont agree that it should. And Im not able to comment 
on the dispute between Ms T and the third party contractor as its not something this service 
is able to consider.  
LVs offer 
I sympathise with Ms Ts position  and the financial and emotional strain this experience  had 
on her. But what  I must decide is whether LV has acted  fairly and reasonably.  In June 2018, 
LV paid Ms T £3,630.  This included the loss of rent entitlement and additional  electricity  
usage. A further  payment  of £1,215 was paid to her in July 2018 to cover a further loss of 
rent. 
It also offered Ms T a cash settlement of £13,090.25 to cover  the costs  of the claim related 
works that LV has accepted under the policy as accidental damage to Ms Ts property. LV 
said the works would  take up to five weeks in order  to complete, and so the cash  settlement 
Ref: DRN90593145included a further five weeks loss of rent. LV said it would also cover  the storage costs  for a 
further five weeks  given it would take that long for the works to be completed. 
I think LVs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I say this 
because Im not persuaded LV is responsible for paying to have Ms Ts roof repaired. LV is 
responsible for the internal damage caused to Ms Ts property as it accepted her claim for 
accidental damage.  
Ms T rejected the cash settlement offer from LV. Ms T made  arrangements with LV for the 
internal repairs to be completed  under  the policy and I understand these have been 
completed. So I wont be asking it to do anything  else.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9059314