K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr L says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr L that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr L says it wasnt made clear that the PPI was optional.
Nationwide has sent us a copy of Mr Ls application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI with yes and no boxes to show whether Mr L wanted  to take it out. And the 
yes box has been ticked.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of Mr Ls credit  card agreement. This included  a box to 
be ticked and a separate space for Mr L to sign if he wanted to take out the PPI. And the box 
has been ticked and Mr L has signed in the space. There was also a similar box to be ticked 
for card protection. But Mr L put a cross  in this box, which suggests he was aware that these 
options werent compulsory.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Nationwide made it clear  to Mr L that he had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mr L chose  to take it.
Mr L has also said he was pressured  into taking the PPI. But he hasnt given us much  detail 
about what was said or why he felt this. This is understandable given  how long ago the sale 
was. But I dont think theres enough evidence  here for me to say Nationwide unfairly 
pressured him into taking  the PPI.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr L any personalised advice about  the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to him. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr L got the information  he needed to decide  
if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve received sick pay. And it wouldve 
meant he didnt need  to rely on his savings  to make his repayments if he wasnt earning. So 
it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr L off taking it 
out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
Ref: DRN97423022But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr L, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr L any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Nationwide should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back to Mr L the difference 
between what Mr L owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nationwide should also pay Mr L 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9742302