K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Collinson Insurance  Services Limited sold her a travel insurance  policy  
but didnt make it clear  that the policy didnt  include cancellation cover. 
Mrs G has been represented by a friend, but for ease Ill refer only to Mrs G in this decision.
background
Mrs G lives in another  European  country. She bought  a ticket for a flight from that country to 
the UK, and was due to travel the following week. The airline  offered the option of travel 
insurance and Collinson  is responsible  for the sale of that policy.  Mrs G decided  to buy the 
policy alongside the flight ticket. 
Unfortunately, Mrs G wasnt  able to travel as planned because  a relative, for whom she is 
the main carer, fell ill. She obtained  a doctors  certificate confirming that and made  a claim to 
the insurer, which is also in the UK. The insurer turned down Mrs Gs claim, saying that she 
simply didnt have cancellation cover under the insurance policy.  This is because 
cancellation cover  wasnt available where the flight was booked  within  14 days of travel.  
Mrs G said the policy  was advertised as being  complete  cover, and shed expected  
cancellation cover  to be included. She complained. The insurer wouldnt change its position  
and issued a final response, explaining Mrs Gs right to refer her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator saw that this was essentially a mis-sale complaint because  Mrs G thought 
cancellation cover  was included in the complete policy. He explained this to Collinson and 
asked for more information  about the sales process. 
Our adjudicator ultimately upheld the complaint on the basis  that Collinson had failed to give 
Mrs G information that was fair, clear and not misleading. If it had then he thought  it likely 
shed have bought suitable  cover elsewhere,  which  did include cancellation cover. He said 
Collinson should  step into the shoes of the insurer, and compensate Mrs G to the value of 
her claim for the €250 flight cost, plus 8% simple interest. Collinson didnt agree so the 
complaints been  referred  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint.  
Collinson is an insurance intermediary, regulated in the UK by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The FCAs insurance  conduct  of business rules  say, in summary, that the 
insurance intermediary should  give the consumer information that is clear, fair and not 
misleading so they can make an informed decision about whether the insurance policy  is 
suitable for them. This is the case even if, as here,  the insurance intermediary doesnt offer 
advice about a policys suitability. 
The policy was sold with a name  that said it was complete travel insurance. Collinson  has 
said that in Europe its common for cancellation  cover to be an optional  benefit. In support of 
this its sent us copies of websites for the main insurers  in Mrs Gs home country. But as our 
adjudicator said the website  examples dont  help Collinsons case because  those policies  
Ref: DRN96461402are marketed with information which clearly  shows  that cancellation cover has to be 
specifically selected.
The issue  here is that the policy was branded  with a name that suggested it was a complete 
policy. Yet it didnt include cancellation cover. It is open to the insurer to choose which  risks 
it wishes to cover, but in this case Collinson should have explained  clearly  that cancellation  
cover  a key feature of travel insurance  both in the UK and Europe   wasnt  included under 
the policy cover. 
Collinson says that the sales process included a link to the policy summary and policy  
document  both of which show that cancellation  cover isnt included.  But I dont think  a 
requirement to click on a website link is enough  to highlight the lack of cancellation  cover  - a 
significant restriction in the benefits being  offered. Collinson didnt  do enough to bring this to 
Mrs Gs attention at the point of sale. And in any event,  Collinson hasnt been able to show 
the sales process at the time of the sale. 
I accept its likely that Mrs G would have  bought  a policy elsewhere, which  did offer 
cancellation cover  had Collinson given her clear,  fair and not misleading  information. She 
lost this opportunity  because of the lack of clear information. So I think the fair outcome is for 
Collinson to compensate her to the value of her claim to the insurer  as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  
we tell it Mrs G accepts  my final decision I require Collinson Insurance Services Limited  to 
compensate her to the value of her claim being the €250 cost of the flight, plus interest*  at 
the simple rate of 8% from the date of claim to the date of settlement. In doing so, Collinson 
can use the original  policy terms and conditions that would have applied had cancellation 
cover been  included.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Collinson considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9646140