K821x#15Complaint
Miss B complains  that PSA Finance UK Limited refused to let her reject  a faulty car.
Background
In October  2017 Miss B acquired a second had car funded in part by a conditional  sale 
agreement with PSA. The car was some three years old and had done 12,820 miles. It cost 
£8,802 and Miss B paid £1,000 deposit  with the balance coming from PSA.
In December a warning light came on relating to the parking sensors. The car was taken 
back to the dealer and the sensor was replaced.  In March 2018  the oil light came on and the 
dealer couldnt  find a leak and topped  it up. This reoccurred in April and in June, during a 
long journey, the car overheated and was towed back to the dealer. The coolant  sensor  was 
repaired and an issue with a shock absorber  was identified but not repaired. This was 
addressed later when  the car was serviced.
Miss Bs complaint to PSA was rejected, but it offered to pay for an independent  inspection.  
This took some time to arrange and in the meantime the car failed its MOT  as it had two 
tyres of different sizes. Miss B says these  were the tyre supplied  by the dealer when she 
acquired the car. 
The independent report was carried out on 4 April 2019 by which time the car had done 
34,241 miles confirmed that there  was a recurring  issue with the reverse  park assistance. It 
noted that the model of car did make use of significant amounts of oil. Finally it noted the 
dealers records were  poorly maintained.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended  it be upheld.  
She said that the dealer  had failed to repair the parking sensor fault and it had reoccurred.  
She suggested PSA allow Miss B to reject  the car. PSA took advice from the dealer which 
said that there were  two sensors and the two faults were separate.  Our investigator wasnt  
persuaded and said the dealer was entitled to one opportunity to effect repairs,  not two. She 
also noted that the car had been  sold with incorrect tyres which had caused it to fail the 
MOT.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
PSA is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN96542132The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have some sympathy with the arguments  made by PSA. Miss B has been  able to make 
significant use of the car, but I can see that she encountered a number of issues and the 
parking sensors  continued to cause problems.  While  I can see that this fault alone doesnt 
prevent her from making  use of the car the sensors  should have worked.
The car was returned to be repaired  and a sensor  was replaced, but the warning light went  
off again and the dealer  says this was due to another sensor within  the system. I dont think  
it necessary to explore the semantics of what constitutes one system within the car and 
whether the two sensors were  separate. In essence  the same warning light went off for a 
fault with the parking system on two occasions.  The dealer was entitled  to one opportunity  to 
fix the fault with the system  and it is reasonable to presume it would have carried out a full 
check on all aspects. 
The parking  aid is an integral part of the car and one for which  Miss B paid. It isnt sufficient 
to say that she was able to drive the car to conclude that it was of a satisfactory quality. I 
dont consider its ongoing failure to be a minor  matter. 
I am also concerned  that the car was sold with mismatching tyres. They were a different size 
and this caused the car to fail its MOT. I think it reasonable for her to have expected the car 
to have been provided with tyres  which were  legal such that the car would have passed its 
MOT. Taken together I have decided that they mean  that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale and I consider it fair that Miss B be allowed to reject it.
Ref: DRN96542133My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
allow Miss B to reject the car and cancel the agreement with nothing  further to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Miss B
refund  full deposit of £1,000 and pay 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  
until the date of settlement
pay £100 distress and inconvenience  to Miss B for inconvenience of multiple  return 
visits to the garage for repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9654213