K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that when she remortgaged to Santander UK Plc the solicitor didnt ensure 
the previous lenders charge was removed, which caused her problems when she later 
applied for a lifetime  mortgage elsewhere to repay  Santander.
Mrs P has been supported in bringing this complaint by her brother, Mr H.
background
In October  2003 Mrs P remortgaged to Santander (formally Abbey National). A mistake was 
made by the previous lender which led to its charge not being removed. 
The solicitor  (that was acting for both Mrs P and Santander in the remortgage)  wrote to 
Santander on 25 November 2003 saying Following  completion of registration of your charge 
we enclose the official copy for your retention. Enclosed with the letter  was an Official Copy 
of Register Entries from the Land  Registry dated 7 November 2003  which  showed  both 
Santanders charge  dated  27 October  2003  as well as the charge from the previous lender 
which dated back to 1990.
In 2018 Mrs Ps interest-only  mortgage term with Santander was coming to an end so she 
arranged to remortgage onto a lifetime mortgage product with a different lender. 
On 26 October 2018, as the solicitor was preparing to complete  the remortgage they 
discovered the previous lenders charge was still registered on Mrs Ps property. This was 
eventually removed in late November and the remortgage completed on 23 November.
In the meantime, Mr H raised  complaints with Santander, the 2003  solicitor and the previous 
lender. 
Mr H says the 2003 solicitor didnt  deal with the complaint, citing  the 15-year  longstop  as set 
out in the Limitation Act 1980  as the complaint was raised a few days after the 15-year time 
limit expired.
The previous  lender  upheld the complaint and covered Mrs Ps financial loss due to the 
delayed completion.
Santander rejected  the complaint, saying it wasnt responsible for the mistake.
Our investigator initially agreed with Santander,  but upon review  he issued a revised 
assessment explaining the solicitor was acting  for Mrs P and Santander and this was an 
ancillary activity to the mortgage. He said £300  compensation  should be paid by Santander  
for the inconvenience  caused.
Mr H  on behalf of Mrs P  accepted the second assessment. Santander didnt accept it, 
but made no further submissions, instead it just commented that the investigator had 
changed his mind and that it didnt think £300 was warranted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN97216072Whilst Mr H accepted the investigators assessment  on behalf of Mrs P I feel I should deal 
with his claim of £1,750  compensation  for his time spent dealing  with matters. Mrs P is the 
eligible complainant as she was Santanders  customer. Whilst she can authorise  Mr H to act 
on her behalf this doesnt mean he can air his own grievances or claim compensation for the 
time he says he incurred assisting his sister.
I dont need to make a finding on whether something  went  wrong, as thats not in dispute. I 
also dont need  to consider the financial loss Mrs P incurred as the previous lender has 
already covered that. 
Under our rules,  we can only consider regulated activities, or things that are ancillary to 
them. And conveyancing, in itself,  isnt a regulated activity. However, arranging for the 
removal of the previous  charge and registration of the new charge by the solicitor is done for 
the benefit of the lender  as it protects its security.  It must be done  to complete the lending 
process, so this is part of the regulated activity which Santander  delegated  to the solicitor  
but for which it remains responsible. 
Its not in dispute  that the previous charge wasnt removed, which could have affected 
Santanders security if it needed to realise that. So, under our rules, I can hold Santander 
responsible for the later issues  that affected  Mrs P due to that omission. I went on to look at 
whether  separately from any responsibility  for the solicitor  Santander made mistakes.  
Having considered everything  Im satisfied Santander in itself didnt make a mistake.  But as 
Ive set out above, Santander was responsible for the solicitors  failure  to ensure the charges 
were correctly registered (and deregistered)  on the mortgaged property.
As I said,  the financial loss has already been  covered by the previous lender so I dont need  
to consider that here. Im just looking at how much compensation  if any  is due from 
Santander for the trouble  and upset caused to Mrs P. Mrs P was understandably upset and 
inconvenienced by the delay in her remortgage  completing, with it completing just under a 
month later than planned. Having considered everything Im satisfied the £300 compensation 
put forward by the investigator is fair and reasonable and so that is the award Im making.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs P £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9721607