K821x#15complaint
Miss C says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss C took out an open-ended  credit  facility with Sunny  in January 2014. The facility 
allowed Miss C to make drawdowns up to a limit of £500 and repay them in up to five 
monthly instalments.
An adjudicator considered  Miss Cs complaint and thought it should be upheld. He didnt 
think the facility  was sustainably affordable for Miss C, as the minimum repayment was too 
large a proportion of Miss Cs income.  Sunny didnt agree  with the adjudicator,  so the 
complaint was asked  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible lending  - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.  
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss C could 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her borrowing  not just whether the loan payments  
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
Ref: DRN95561192the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Ive seen that when Sunny opened  Miss Cs account, she reported  a net monthly  income of 
£600. Sunny  didnt  ask Miss C any questions about  her expenditure and I understand that it 
wouldve relied primarily on a comparison between Miss Cs income and the loan size to 
assess affordability. I understand Sunny wouldve also carried out a credit  check  but Ive not 
seen evidence of this.
The loan agreement  says that if Miss C made the maximum drawdown and repaid it in the 
maximum number  of permitted instalments, then the largest instalment would  be about £188.  
This is approximately 31% of Miss Cs income.
As Sunny didnt  know anything about  Miss Cs expenditure, its not clear to me how it 
decided that repayments which represented  such a large percentage of Miss Cs income 
were sustainably affordable. I do not think its likely such a large repayment would have been 
sustainably affordable for someone on a relatively low income. So I dont think Sunny 
shouldve approved this facility for Miss C.
I have also seen (from her personal  credit file) that Miss C had at least four other credit 
commitments at this time, including  two separate sets of payments to debt 
collectors/purchasers, a mail order/catalogue  account and a rent-to-buy product. The 
number of Miss Cs other credit commitments, together with Miss Cs declared  income,  
reinforces my view that the facility  wasnt sustainably  affordable  for Miss C.
Ive noted that Miss C defaulted on her account; so that the facility was never  likely to have 
been sustainably  affordable for her is borne out by what happened  after it was approved.
For these reasons, Im upholding  Miss Cs complaint.
I should, however,  make  Miss C aware she may not be due a cash refund. Sunny has told 
us that Miss C borrowed £1,175 (in principal)  and repaid  £1,090.87   meaning Miss C has 
repaid less than she borrowed. If these figures  are still accurate, Miss C wont be due a 
refund of interest  and charges, as, in effect,  she wont  have  paid any. I mention this only to 
limit any future disappointment Miss C may experience  Sunny must still work  out if it owes  
Miss C anything as set out below.
Ref: DRN95561193putting things right
Sunny should  refund  the interest and charges  Miss C paid on her account.  It should add 
interest at 8% simple  per year to the refund, from when the interest and charges were paid 
(if they were), until the date of settlement. Sunny should  also remove  any adverse 
information it has recorded about  Miss Cs account  from Miss Cs credit  history.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny  to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint. Elevate Credit  International  Limited  must  put things right by 
taking the steps  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556119