K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-paying Select and 
Silver packaged bank  accounts. He says that Lloyds didnt make  it clear that fee-free 
accounts were also available and says had it done so, he wouldnt have agreed to the 
packaged accounts.
Mr L has also complained  that Lloyds said it would  downgrade  his account to a fee-free 
account but it did not do so. 
background
Mr L opened a fee-paying  Select  account  with Lloyds on 1 June 2006. Mr Ls Select account 
was then upgraded to a fee-paying Silver packaged  bank account  on 18 June 2010.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that the Select or Silver 
accounts had been mis-sold. And hed explained that Lloyds had explained how Mr L could 
downgrade his account if he didnt want it anymore. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into 
consideration when looking into this complaint.
Sale of the Select account
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Select packaged account to 
Mr L. Id like to explain  why I think thats  the case.
It may help for me to explain that where  matters  are in dispute,  as they are here, I have to 
make my decision  based on what I think is most likely to have happened.  And in working out 
what I think is most likely  to have happened, I have to think about everything I've been told, 
together with everything else I've been  provided  with and see how this fits with what I do 
know. 
Unfortunately as the sale of the Select account  took place over 12 years ago, Lloyds has 
unsurprisingly not been able to provide  much  in the way of evidence from the sale to show  
what exactly was discussed.  
However, Mr L has been very firm in saying that he was not presented with the option of a 
fee-free account  and that only a range of packaged accounts was presented to him.  So Ive 
carefully considered  Mr Ls recollections  of the sale alongside the evidence that Lloyds has 
provided.
When the account was sold, Mr L held a joint fee-free account with Lloyds and he said in our 
questionnaire that hed held a fee-free account previously. Mr L says that hed split up with 
his partner at the time, and that his partner had managed the joint account. He also says that 
the joint account was taken out years before the sale of the Select account, so he wasnt  
aware of what accounts Lloyds sold at the time. 
Ref: DRN97515862At the time the Select account cost £7 per month (although Mr L only paid £3.50 for the first 4 
months he held it) and it came with benefits such as mobile phone  insurance, breakdown 
cover and a £50 interest free overdraft facility. According to Lloydss records Mr L registered 
a Nokia  8310  under the mobile  phone insurance  on 27 June 2006.  
Having carefully considered what Mr L has said and his circumstances at the time, I think he 
was more likely than not aware fee-free accounts  were generally available, particularly as 
hed held a fee-free joint account as well. And as he registered a mobile  phone  shortly after 
the sale, this leads me to think that he agreed to the Select account because he was 
attracted to the features  of the account,  rather than because he thought he had no choice but 
to pay for one. 
I understand that Lloyds recommended the account to Mr L. This meant  that Lloyds had to 
check if it was right for him. And given  that he had a mobile phone and went on to register  it, 
I think he had a need for at least this benefit on the Select account  and the Select account 
was the cheapest account to offer mobile  phone insurance at the time.  So I think  Lloydss  
recommendation was reasonable  in the circumstances. And although Mr L says that he didnt 
drive at the time, as the account was sold as a package, he wasnt able to pick and choose 
what benefits it came with. So just because Mr L didnt need all of the benefits provided  with 
the account, doesnt necessarily mean  that it was mis-sold.
As well as making sure that it was right for him, Lloyds also had to make  sure it gave Mr L 
the important  information  about the account. Its clear that Mr L was given  some  information 
about the account. For example its apparent that he was told about the cost of the account  
and that it came with mobile phone insurance  and how he could  register his phone  for it to be 
covered. 
I accept its possible that Mr L may not have been  given  all the important information  about 
the account. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances at the time that makes  me 
think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it had he been given more information  about 
it. For example, Mr L has said that the excess on the mobile phone cover  was more  than the 
value of his phones. But when the Select account  was sold the excess  was only £30, and it 
has only increased in more recent years.  So I dont  think if hed been made aware of the 
excess this wouldve necessarily put him off agreeing to it as that was a fairly standard  
amount to charge for excess on a mobile phone  policy at the time. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Select account was mis-sold.
As a final point regarding the Select  account, Mr L has said he was led to believe that a 
separate fee-free  account was also opened  in 2006, but that he was never made aware  of 
this account. 
Having looked  into this I cant see that a separate fee-free account  was opened. To clarify, 
packaged accounts are essentially  packages of benefits, that incur  a monthly fee, that are 
added to or overlay a standard fee-free current account. This is why if an account is 
upgraded to a packaged account or downgraded to a cheaper packaged account or to a fee-
free account, the sort code and account number usually  remain the same.  
Ref: DRN97515863From what  I can see, there  was a slight delay of a day or so in the Select package being  
added to his account when he opened  it in 2006. Therefore, where reference has been 
made to Mr L having a sole fee-free account  at the time, I believe this was in reference to the 
same account that hes complained about  - in the period between when it was opened and 
when Lloyds had processed the addition of the Select package to the account.  And from 
what I have seen, it looks like the delay in processing the Select package was caused  by an 
administrative issue. Short  delays  in adding a packaged account to a standard  account are 
not uncommon, so I dont  think the delay in processing the packaged account is evidence of 
some sort of wrongdoing  by Lloyds and was more just an administration  issue.
Sale of the Silver account
Turning to the sale of the Silver  account in June 2010, the main  benefit that it provided, that 
the Select account  didnt, was European  travel insurance. And Mr L says that apart from 
going on a cruise in 2008,  he didnt regularly travel abroad, so had no need for the additional 
travel insurance.
When the Silver account was sold to him in June 2010, the Silver  account cost £7.95 a 
month, whereas  the Select account  that he already  held at the time, cost £8.95  per month. 
So by agreeing to it, Mr L was essentially  able to continue to receive all of the benefits  that 
came with the Select account, but for £1 less per month.
Mr L has said that he didnt drive when the Select  account was sold,  but there  is evidence,  
notably payments  on his bank statements for Kwik Fit and to the DVLA around 2010 and 
onwards that suggest he was driving  by the time the Silver account was sold to him. And 
Mr L did go on to make a claim on the breakdown cover in 2012. So it seems that he had a 
need for at least the breakdown cover when the Silver account was sold to him. And as the 
Silver account was the cheapest account  to offer such a benefit, I dont think  Lloydss 
recommendation to change  to the Silver account  was not unreasonable  in the 
circumstances. 
As such,  I dont think that the Silver account was mis-sold as I think  it was essentially sold as 
a cost saving  exercise for Mr L and it appears  that Mr L had an apparent  need  for at least  
some of the benefits  it provided.
Account downgrade 
Mr L says that Lloyds said it would downgrade his account, but it didnt - which resulted in 
him having to switch  his account to another bank. Specifically he said that he spoke to a 
male and a female  complaint handler  and both said they would downgrade his account. 
So Ive carefully  considered  what  Mr L has said alongside the evidence  that is available   
which includes call recordings of Mr L speaking with the male complaint handler and call 
notes made  by the members of staff Mr L has referred to . 
In the first call Mr L explained that hed been  to a branch to raise his complaint and he was 
told hed need  to watch videos to downgrade his account whilst  in branch. Mr L explained 
that hed asked the branch staff if he could downgrade the account online instead and was 
told he could - which turned out to be incorrect.
Ref: DRN97515864During the call the complaint handler  explained  that what Mr L had been told was incorrect  
and that he couldnt downgrade his account online.  But the complaint handler then offered to 
put Mr L through to the customer services  department at the end of the call so he could 
downgrade his account over the phone  as the complaint handler wasnt  able to go through  
the downgrading process himself. But Mr L declined this offer and said that hed look into 
downgrading his account once the mis-selling complaint was looked  into.
So, although  it looks like Mr L mayve initially been given wrong information in branch about  
downgrading online, it looks like Lloyds did then offer to transfer Mr L through  to the 
department that could  process a downgrade request and Mr L declined  the offer. And during 
the second call with the male complaint handler there was no mention of downgrading the 
account.
Unfortunately Lloyds has been  unable  to provide the call recordings of the conversation Mr L 
had with the female complaint handler. But the notes for the first call made by the female 
member of staff say: 
Customer discussed the reasons why he doesnt  agree. Customer requested that I put 
some additional  information in the letter which I have done  and send him 2 copies (one for 
the ombudsman) and advised that I am unable to downgrade the account but I will put how 
he can do this in the letter
The notes for the second call dont  mention that a downgrade request was made. Therefore 
on balance, I dont  think that Mr L had been told that his account would be downgraded  to a 
fee-free account  by Lloydss complaints department. And I can see that Lloyds  did explain in 
its final response letter that Mr L could downgrade his account  either  in branch or by phoning 
a particular number.  
So overall, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds offered  to downgrade Mr Ls account but 
then failed to do so. And it did provide  Mr L with  information about how to downgrade his 
account if he didnt  want it anymore. So taking everything into account, I dont think  that the 
packaged accounts were mis-sold and I dont think that a refund of the account fees is 
warranted based on the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9751586