K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them two mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs P initially arranged  a mortgage with Lloyds in February  1998  and at the same 
time took out an MPPI  policy that covered them both against accidents,  sickness  and 
unemployment. They arranged  the mortgage and insurance in a meeting. They  arranged  the 
policy so that Mr P would  be able to claim for 75% of the benefit provided  and Mrs P 25%.
Mr and Mrs P then took out a further advance  on their mortgage in February  2001  and took 
out an additional MPPI policy to cover the repayment of the additional  borrowing. The 
amount that Mr and Mrs P would be able to claim for in benefit  altered slightly with 70% in  
Mr Ps name and 30% in Mrs Ps name.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage and MPPI policy ended in January 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs P dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs P were given a choice to have either  policy.  I 
have done this by considering both parties  recollections  and any documentation 
provided from the time of each sale. 
Mr and Mrs Ps recollections about the meetings in 1998  and 2001 are not detailed. This 
is understandable due to the many  years that have passed since the date of each sale.  
So I have  needed  to look at the sales documentation provided from that time to obtain 
an understanding as to what  more likely  happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mr and Mrs P were  advised it was a good 
idea to have the insurance  to protect  their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice in 1998 and 2001.
Ref: DRN98903132I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when a separate  application 
form was being  completed and signed  by Mr and Mrs P on both occasions, that the 
MPPI policies were presented as an optional requirement. On balance, when 
considering the information in front of me, I am persuaded  Mr and Mrs P were given a 
choice to have  the MPPI policy in 1998  and 2001.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs P in 1998 and 2001, but 
it doesnt look as if either  policy  was unsuitable for them  based  on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time of each sale. I say this because Mr and Mrs P say they had 
good sick pay (6 months full and 6 months  half for Mr P and 6 months  full and 3 months 
half for Mrs P at the time of both sales), but I think the benefits  provided by the policies 
would have  been of use to them in a time of need. Having  the policy in place would mean  
Mr and Mrs P could  use any provisions to cover other  expenses. I think, on balance,  Mr 
and Mrs P would  have found the cover the policy provided  useful for any extended period 
of unemployment  or sickness.  I can also see no other reasons such  as a significant or 
restrictive term that would make the policies unsuitable either.  
I cannot be sure if Mr and Mrs P would  have received the costs  of the policies clearly 
but even if they had received all the information on this, I dont think  it would have 
changed their mind to have the cover for the reasons that I have already given. The two 
MPPI policies were reasonably priced compared  to similar  policies available  at the time 
of each sale and to the monthly repayment. And Mr and Mrs P could have cancelled the 
MPPI if it did become  unaffordable in 1998 and 2001.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policies  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs P wouldve been affected  by any of these based on what  I have 
already concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, but on balance, I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision before 
24 August 2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9890313