K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc pet policy was 
confusing as to whether  it would provide cover for their dog. So they cancelled  their policy  
and wanted a refund of the premium. 
References to RSA include all its agents.  
background
Mr and Mrs S own a dog, which ostensibly could be on the dangerous dogs  list and so 
excluded from cover but it is of a mixed breed, which means a mixture  of three or more 
different breeds. Mrs S said before buying this policy, she went  through  the policy  terms and 
believed because her dog was a mixed  breed and not a crossbreed, her dog would be 
covered. 
Later Mrs S said that she read on the business  social media page,  that her dog might not be 
covered given the mix of breeds her dog was made  up of. She said she phoned RSA and 
asked if one breed of the three breeds her dog had, was covered. She was told no.
Therefore, she complained to RSA, as she believed  she had been wrongly paying for cover 
for the previous three years given she believed her dog wasnt covered. She also cancelled 
her policy and wanted a refund of the premium she had paid since she bought the policy, 
some three years previously.
RSA said it agreed its website was unclear. However, it confirmed Mrs S was correct  from 
the beginning and that because her dog was a mixed breed of at least three different breeds 
of dog, he was covered.  It also confirmed this with its underwriters. Therefore, it didnt agree 
to refund the premium Mrs S had paid over the years. It did however think  that due to the 
lack of clarity  on the website, Mrs S had been put to some inconvenience  and so it paid her 
£50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us. The investigator 
thought it was fair that due to the lack of clarity,  RSA paid Mr and Mrs S compensation but 
he didnt think it had to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy so their complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
I understand and appreciate Mrs S strong  feelings on this issue. However,  in order for me to 
require RSA to refund Mr and Mrs S all the premium they have paid for this policy, it needs 
to be clear that their dog wasnt  covered  due to his breed  type. And that simply isnt the case 
here.
RSA have categorically confirmed that as Mr and Mrs S dog is a mixed breed, rather  than 
one of breeds  excluded  from cover or indeed a cross breed between  any two of the breeds 
Ref: DRN95568812excluded, their dog was properly covered from the outset.  On that basis,  the policy  was 
suitable for their requirements, as it covered their dog.
Mrs S said on her complaint form that when she called RSA,  she asked only if one of the 
breeds wasnt covered.  But Mrs S dog is a mixed  breed. Clearly, the operative could have 
been clearer, along with the social media  page  and the website, and RSA had admitted that 
and apologised, paying compensation,  which I consider to be appropriate.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  have any need to make a claim in the three years or so this policy  was 
in being. RSA confirmed had they done so, subject to the remaining terms of policy,  cover 
would have been provided.  Therefore, there is simply no reason for me to require RSA to 
refund any premium.
As no claim  was made, it might be possible for Mr and Mrs S to insure their dog again  with 
RSA, given its clear that cover would be provided  for him. This of course will be subjected  to 
underwriting again  if their dog has visited a vet or suffered any health  condition since, 
provided of course  they havent  obtained cover elsewhere.
I understand Mrs S wished for a copy of the telephone recording from RSA. I can see no 
reason subject to the provisions of data protection and freedom  of information why RSA 
would not provide that to her if she asked it directly.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556881