K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1994. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.  Mrs D says FICL mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
 Ive seen a copy  of the application form Mrs D signed. Its not the clearest of copies but 
overall Im satisfied FICL made  her aware  of the PPI, that she had a choice  about  
buying it, and that she chose to take it by ticking the relevant box. I can understand if 
she doesnt remember that now, after all this time. Ive thought carefully  about  Mrs Ds 
argument that the copy application form doesnt definitively  prove how the PPI was 
presented to her. I agree that its not conclusive.  But, on balance,  I cant  fairly say she 
wasnt told she had the option  to decline PPI.
 The parties agree that FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D. So it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But FICL should have given her enough information to be 
able to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I believe she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And I can see why as, despite her limited  entitlement  to enhanced sick 
pay from her employer  and some savings she held, the PPI benefits  were significant 
and could have  paid out for a long time.  The PPI meant she could potentially protect 
any savings shed  built up. I also think its likely Mrs D realised there was a cost for the 
cover.
 Based  on what Ive seen of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she 
was significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful to her if something went wrong.  
Overall, I dont  think Mrs Ds lost out because of how FICL sold her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN95200592Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9520059