K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) blocked their current 
account and took too long to release the money  in the account to them.
background
Mr and Mrs A had a joint current account with Nationwide.  There were  several  large 
payments which  took place on the account  in July 2018. This prompted Nationwide to review 
the account and restrict Mr and Mrs A access to it while it did so.
Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs A two letters asking for information about the payments. Mr A 
explained what they were for, but said it had no right to pry into his private affairs  and this 
wasnt common practice. Nationwide asked him for further evidence  in relation to what he 
said about the payments.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Nationwide.  It responded  saying it had reviewed Mr and Mrs As 
account in line with its regulatory obligations  and still required  more evidence, which up to 
that point it hadnt received.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us. Nationwide decided  to close the account  in late 
September 2018, releasing the funds to them.
An investigator at our service didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.  They  found:
-Nationwide had acted  in line with its legal and regulatory obligations.
-Nationwide had asked  for further evidence following Mr As explanation  about the 
payments. It was entitled to close the account  if it didnt  receive this evidence and 
this was in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
-Nationwide hadnt caused any unnecessary delays. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They say Mr A had sent Nationwide everything it had asked for and 
this was all they could provide. They said our investigator hadnt  taken into account the 
financial stress theyd been  caused.
Our investigator asked  Mr A to provide anything more hed sent to Nationwide  after it had 
asked him for more  evidence. Mr A sent in emails hed sent to Nationwide in August 2018. 
He said he didnt have  copies of the correspondence  hed sent by mail.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
 
Ref: DRN94652882I understand Mr and Mrs A say the information  Nationwide asked for is private. But although 
they feel this way, I dont  think  Nationwide was unreasonable  in asking the questions it did. 
Ill explain  why.
Nationwide has extensive legal and regulatory  responsibilities it must meet when providing 
account services to new and existing customers. And to fulfil these responsibilities it 
sometimes needs to review accounts to understand more about  the activity  taking place on 
them, which includes  asking questions about  the purpose of a transaction and the origin of 
funds. If Nationwide  didnt  do this it could risk serious  sanctions  and penalties.
Mr A says Nationwide could review the account but it wasnt  entitled to block  his access  to it. 
But the general terms and conditions of the account do permit Nationwide  to restrict access 
to an account  when fulfilling its legal and regulatory obligations. And these were  the terms 
Mr A agreed to when  the account  was opened.
I appreciate Mr A has been a customer of Nationwide for many years  when it asked  him to 
provide the information. But this doesnt  mean Nationwide  shouldnt  comply with its 
responsibilities. And having reviewed the information/explanation he provided I can see why 
Nationwide believed more  information  was necessary. And I understand its concerns. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  have access to their funds  for around two months and its likely this 
caused them  some  financial inconvenience  and stress. But from what  Ive seen, other than 
Mr A providing Nationwide with his explanation  on what  the funds were for and where they 
were from,  he didnt  send in all the further  evidence Nationwide  had asked for. And I think  
this explains why it took as long as it did for him to get access the funds.
Mr A says he was told at one point  that the person  who was dealing  with the complaint was 
away on holiday and this caused delay. But in the context of Nationwide  needing more 
evidence from him, I dont think someone else dealing with his complaint wouldve resulted 
in him accessing  the funds any sooner.
Im satisfied that Nationwide were  acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when 
reviewing Mr and Mrs As account and asking  Mr A questions. So I dont think  its done 
anything wrong  or treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly  when it blocked  their accounts.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Ref: DRN94652883Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9465288