K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont pay him the compensation that hes 
claimed for a car that was misrepresented to him. His complaint is made against Nationwide 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr H used his Nationwide  credit  card in June  2016  to pay a £300 deposit for a used car. The 
balance of the purchase price was paid by other  means. He says that the car was advertised 
as having metallic paint.  But when he had the car valeted in October 2017 he was told that 
the paint on the tailgate  and rear bumper was a different finish to the rest of the car. He 
complained to the dealer  and then claimed  £745  from Nationwide (which is the additional 
cost of a metallic paint  finish) under section 75. It paid him £75 compensation as it hadnt 
dealt with his complaint  in a timely manner. But Mr H wasnt  satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr H 
had an opportunity to inspect the car before buying  it and that, from the photo that Mr H had 
provided, the colour tone was quite obvious. And he said that Mr H hadnt raised the issues 
about the colour tone with the dealer  until about  15 months after hed bought the car. So he 
said that Mr H had accepted the car.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he wouldnt have  bought the car if hed known that it had both solid and metallic  paint 
finishes and the dealer made  a false description  of the car that induced  him into buying it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Hs complaint about  Nationwide, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the dealer 
and that Nationwides response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt  fair or reasonable. Im 
not determining  the outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able 
to do that.
Mr H wanted a car with metallic grey paint. This car was advertised as having metallic grey 
paint and Mr H says that he was told by the dealer that it had metallic grey paint. He had the 
opportunity to inspect  the car  and I consider it to be reasonable to expect him to have 
noticed a difference in the finish of the paintwork if that was an important  issue for him. But 
he bought the car in June  2016.
Considerably more than a year later  in November 2017  he had the car valeted and he 
was told that the finish  on the tailgate  and rear bumper  was different to the finish  on the rest 
of the car and wasnt metallic paint. Mr H complained to the dealer and then claimed the cost 
of a metallic paint finish (which he said was £745)  from Nationwide under section 75. There  
was a delay in it dealing with his complaint  for which it paid £75 compensation to Mr H.
Ref: DRN97028442Mr Hs attention was drawn to the car because it was advertised  as having metallic  paint  
and he was told by the dealer that the car had metallic paint. But the cars tailgate and rear 
bumper arent metallic paint. Mr H had the opportunity to inspect the car and, if metallic paint 
was an important consideration for him, I would expect him to have carefully inspected the 
paint on the car and to have noticed  that the paint on the tailgate  and rear bumper wasnt 
metallic. And he then used the car for more than a year without noticing  that the paint on the 
tailgate and rear bumper wasnt metallic. 
So although  the car was misrepresented as having metallic paint, Im not persuaded that 
Mr H was induced into buying the car by that misrepresentation because  he had the 
opportunity to inspect  the car  including the paintwork   and he didnt contact the dealer or 
Nationwide about  the issue with the paintwork until considerably more  than a year after hed 
bought the car. So I find that, in these circumstances, it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me 
to require Nationwide to pay to Mr H the £745  compensation that hes claimed  or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9702844