K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss B are unhappy that International Insurance Company of Hannover  SE 
(Hannover) wont deal with their claim for damage  caused by subsidence under their home 
insurance.
background
In 2012 Mr S and Miss B made a claim to Hannover for subsidence damage to their home. 
Their claim was investigated and initially declined. This was because Hannovers  loss 
adjuster had assessed that an extension to the property was settling onto made ground,  
something which isnt covered  by the policy. Mr S and Miss B then had repairs  done to their 
drains and were advised that the water escaping might be the cause of the subsidence. This 
was because the defective drain  was close to the damaged area. They  asked Hannover to 
look at the claim again. It reviewed the claim and decided to accept liability  under  the policy 
and repaired  the damage.
In September  2016, Mr S and Miss B noticed further cracking  to their property. Mr S and 
Miss B approached their current insurer, but they were advised  to go back  to Hannover  as it 
seemed likely that the damage arose out of the same cause as in 2012.  Hannover appointed 
loss adjusters again who carried out a period of monitoring. Some  minor movement was 
found but the total movement was very low. It also carried out a drainage survey and found  
no defects in the system.  The loss adjusters came to the view that the current  movement of 
the property was due to the extension settling onto made ground, but thought provisionally 
that Hannover should repair the damage  and carry out some  stabilisation.
Hannover appointed an independent  structural engineer to carry out a report. His conclusion 
was that the likely cause of the subsidence in 2012  was the settlement of the extension 
foundations. He said that in hindsight the drainage problems now appeared unconnected to 
the damage. While  underpinning had been mooted as a possibility, he thought this was 
neither warranted  nor indeed possible.  Hannover  rejected the claim on this basis.
Mr S and Miss B referred their complaint  to this service. Whilst they couldnt refute the 
findings of the independent engineer, they thought it was unfair for the claim to be turned 
down again on the basis of it being  settlement onto made ground, which  Hannover knew  
about in 2012. They feel that the whole process wasted their time and money, and that 
Hannover should in light of this reinstate the work and carry out the necessary  stabilisation.
Our adjudicator noted that in August 2017  the loss adjuster had said that they had a concern 
that the cause  of the damage  wasnt resolved  and arguably the only way to do this would be 
to extend the existing  foundations into firm strata. She thought  that in order  to carry out an 
effective repair of the damage  Hannover should carry out the further  work  necessary.
Hannover didnt  agree and the matter  was passed to me for consideration.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision and made the following findings:
The policy  term which covers subsidence  has an exclusion for loss or damage  caused by: 
normal settlement, shrinkagesettlement  or movement of made up ground.
Ref: DRN92799612Essentially Hannover  is saying that the extension was built on inadequate  ground and is 
moving because  of this. That is not covered under  the policy.  In 2012 Hannover came  to the 
same conclusion but changed  its mind  when the drains were found  to be defective.  
It carried out repairs in 2012. If those repairs were  found to be defective,  or the cause of 
subsidence it accepted the claim under was found to be the same  cause now, I would say 
Hannover should take steps to carry out an effective repair. But I dont  think  the expert  
evidence supports that.
There is a report from an independent  engineer. And indeed Mr S and Miss B dont dispute 
his findings. I think  its reasonable for me to rely on those findings.  He says having  reviewed 
the drainage survey,  that the drains are no longer defective and that the cause of the 
damage in 2016  is likely to be due to settlement onto made ground.  In fact he thinks it likely 
that this was always the cause of the damage, even in 2012.  I accept its possible that the 
cause of damage in 2012 might also have been due to the water from the defective pipe 
softening the soil in the affected area.
I understand what the loss adjuster said concerning  possible further repairs. But as the 
matter was specifically  referred to a specialist engineer I think it reasonable to accept his 
conclusions.
I have considered the adjudicators point  about Hannover carrying out an effective repair. 
This would be relevant  if the repairs failed due to them either  being  defective in the first 
place or due to an insured cause. But here the likely cause is settlement. Hannover 
accepted that the cause of the damage  in 2012 was a defective drain. That cause was 
removed, so it was reasonable for it to go ahead with the repairs. What appears to have 
happened now is that there  is minor  cracking but due to settlement, rather  than what was 
accepted as the original cause. So I dont think that Hannover is liable to repair  the current  
cracking.
As for underpinning,  the engineer thought  this was neither warranted nor possible.  So I cant  
say that Hannover  should carry this out. Its not obliged to carry out preventative work under 
the terms of the policy and would only need to do so where this was the only way to carry 
out an effective  repair.  The fact that there was no movement after the repairs  nor that there  
is any indication now that the drains  are defective would indicate to me that those repairs 
were effective.
Mr S mentioned that money has been  wasted  that they should  have  been  told this in 2012. 
But they have  had the benefit of having  repairs done. And the evidence now is that the 
movement is very low. I appreciate that thats  not a guarantee  for the future. But I dont think  
they have had their time amd money wasted.
Overall I dont propose to ask Hannover  to take any further action. But Mr S and Miss B dont 
have to accept  my view.  They are free to seek their own engineers report if they believe the 
subsidence might  be covered  under  the policy terms. Before considering such  action they 
should get independent advice, as the insurance wouldnt generally cover  the cost of such a 
report. Or indeed they could go back to their present insurer,  if they believe the subsidence 
is due to a different cause now. 
Mr S and Miss B responded.  They now advise that they dont accept the findings of the 
independent engineer as they doubt  his independence and point out that he never visited  
their property. They dont  accept the conclusion  that the property cant  be underpinned  as 
Ref: DRN92799613they have had a visit from structural engineer who told them it could.  They want  to hold off 
any final decision whilst they get more monitoring carried out and get an engineers  report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I wasnt recommending that Mr S and Miss B obtain an engineers  
report. If they decide to do so at some  time thats  a matter for them.
But as matters stand,  I havent seen any report from a structural  engineer suggesting that 
the property could or should be underpinned. There was just an indication from the loss 
adjuster that arguably  this could be done.  And in any event even if this were  possible, the 
cause of the subsidence isnt covered under  the policy.  As for monitoring Im satisfied that 
theres already  been extensive  monitoring carried out. Two engineers  have now concluded 
that the property  is settling onto made  ground and Im further  satisfied that the second 
engineer brought in was independent.
So Im not persuaded to alter my views. I think Hannover has acted reasonably and I dont  
propose to ask it to take any further  action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9279961