K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the incorrect outstanding  balance shown on his credit card account at 
Nationwide Building  Societys cash machine.
background
When Mr B used  a Nationwide cash machine last year, he noticed the outstanding balance  
on his credit card account was nearly double the accounts credit  limit. Mr B was concerned  
by this as he knew  he hadnt spent the amount the cash machine was showing and the 
balance was clearly  more than the credit limit on his account. Mr B says he tried it on more 
than one of Nationwides cash machines and the outstanding balance was still incorrect.
Mr B says when he contacted Nationwide the same  day to find out why the outstanding 
balance was showing incorrectly,  they were unable to give him a reason. Mr B says the 
issue is now resolved  and the credit  card statements he received dont reflect this 
inaccuracy. But Mr Bs concerned this could happen again and he also says when he spoke 
to Nationwide, they told him hed be liable to pay the outstanding balance.  Mr B says he was 
worried about someone else being able to access his account and spend the funds.
Nationwide responded to Mr Bs concerns. They confirmed there were no reported issues 
with the cash  machine  Mr B used and also that it appeared  this issue only impacted Mr Bs 
account. Nationwide assured Mr B it was just an error. To acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience this error wouldve caused Mr B at the time; they offered him £50 
compensation. Mr B didnt  accept the compensation and brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. He explained whilst Nationwide  have been unable 
to tell Mr B how this error  occurred, he thought they acted fairly in dealing with Mr Bs 
complaint.  He also said he thought Nationwides offer of £50 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. Mr B didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman  to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs worry  that the outstanding  balance showing on his account  was 
nearly double  the actual  limit. And I can appreciate Mr B wants to find out the reason why 
this error  occurred.
Nationwide say tests  were carried out on the cash machine Mr B used which showed there 
were no issues with the cash machine. Nationwide also confirm there were no other reported 
issues about the cash machines Mr B used. So they said there  may be an issue with Mr Bs 
card rather  than the cash machines. I dont think their explanation of this issue  being isolated  
to Mr Bs account only is unreasonable, especially given Mr B says his partners outstanding 
balance was showing correctly at the same  cash machine he used. There  may be occasions 
where a bank may experience unexplainable  glitches and in this case, Ive got nothing to 
show me it may be something  other  than this.
Nationwide have sent us notes of the call between them and Mr B. I can see from these 
Mr B was given reassurance he wasnt going to be billed  for the incorrect outstanding 
Ref: DRN99562312amount. I can also see Nationwide confirmed what the true outstanding balance was to Mr B 
and told him if he logged into his account  online, he wouldve been  able to see the actual 
balance himself. Based on this, Im satisfied Mr B had the ability  to reassure himself of the 
true outstanding balance  by checking his online banking.  
Mr B says he had to wait for several days for the outstanding balance on his account to be 
corrected. And that he was told by Nationwide not to use his credit  card until the issue  was 
resolved which  was inconvenient for Mr B as he wasnt  able to spend at a busy period of the 
year. But Ive seen  the statements for Mr Bs account at that time  and can see he used his 
credit card within a couple of days of the date that he queried with Nationwide  the 
outstanding balance. So even if Mr B did have  to wait several days  for Nationwide to 
investigate the problem, the society had already  confirmed what his outstanding balance  and 
credit limits were and, he was still using  his credit card to make purchases.  So I dont think  
this caused Mr B considerable inconvenience.  
I appreciate Mr Bs concern that someone  else could have accessed his account  and spent  
that money.  But its good to see that didnt  happen.  And I can also appreciate Mr Bs concern 
that if he did actually  spend the amount the outstanding balance was showing,  he wouldve 
been liable  to pay it back. But Nationwide told Mr B the credit limit available  on his account  
was significantly less than the incorrect outstanding balance  amount. And as Ive explained, 
Nationwide told Mr B the actual outstanding balance at the time. So, based on what Ive 
seen, theres nothing that makes me think  either  Mr B or someone  else wouldve been  able 
to spend nearly  double  the credit limit on the account.
Mr B wants  reassurance  this error  wont happen  again. But as Ive explained, I think its 
reasonable to believe  this has been  down to an unexplainable glitch,  so Im unable to 
guarantee this wont ever happen again. 
I think the offer of £50 is fair in the circumstances  of this complaint. Whilst I acknowledge this 
error would have caused some concern to Mr B, its clear from the information I have, that 
Mr Bs account wasnt compromised  in any way; Nationwide explained promptly that this was 
merely a mistake  and he was still able to make  purchases on his credit  card.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9956231