K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr D took out a credit card in 1995. At the same time he was sold PPI to protect his credit  
card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Mr D disagrees.  Hes mainly concerned that 
the true cost of the benefit wasnt clearly outlined and it wasnt  made  sufficiently clear  to him 
that the policy was optional.  Mr D also says that he didnt need  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D applied for this credit card with PPI by filling in a postal application.  Its completely 
understandable that Mr D mightve forgotten exactly what happened  so long ago. But the 
way the application form is set out makes it clear  that it was up to Mr D to say if he wanted  to 
take out PPI with his credit card. And he indicated on the form that he wanted to have PPI. 
So, I find that Bank of Scotland  made Mr D aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didnt have to check  the policy was 
suitable for him. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr D enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him.
Mr D was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
PPI covered Mr D in the event of accident,  sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months 
per claim. 
Ive taken into account that Mr D wouldve had up to 3 months  full sick pay. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer  - up to 12 months for each successful claim. 
So it provided better protection than Mr D wouldve had if he was off work sick or disabled 
and hed just been relying on his sick pay through work. 
And the policy wouldve paid out if Mr D lost his job unexpectedly and he was out of work.  
Although Mr D had redundancy benefits,  this wouldnt  have helped him if hed had an 
accident or was disabled  and unable to go back to work.  Based  on everything hes told us, 
I think Mr D couldve  benefitted from the PPI.   
 
Ref: DRN99572212Its possible some information Bank  of Scotland gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  There were some things  the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Ds case. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to have PPI.
I dont think the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr D when he bought  the policy. But, from what  
Ive seen, Mr D hasnt  suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums.  And he 
chose to take out the policy when he didnt have  to, so it seems Mr D wanted this type of 
cover at the time. Looked at overall, I think Mr D still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if 
hed been better informed. The policy gave  him worthwhile protection in his particular 
situation. So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland Bank  Plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9957221