K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Topaz Finance  Limited  is still contacting her about  her buy to let 
mortgages even  though  shes  been  declared bankrupt.
background
Mrs M had a number of buy to let properties,  two of which had mortgages with Topaz. She 
was declared bankrupt in about  2015.
One of the properties was sold, leaving a shortfall. Topaz sent Mrs M a letter telling her that 
there was a shortfall and asking her to get in touch. Mrs M complained. She said she had no 
further interest in the property, or liability for the debt.
Topaz said the letter was automatically generated because there was a shortfall and 
because it hadnt  yet received all the documents it needed to close the account  including,  
in particular, Mrs Ms notice of discharge from bankruptcy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs M doesnt  want to receive letters about the mortgage any more.  
The propertys been sold. If shes bankrupt she isnt liable to make  payments to the 
mortgage and isnt liable for the shortfall following the sale.
Equally, however, I think its reasonable for Topaz to want  to confirm that this definitively is 
the position before it writes  off the shortfall sum. It hasnt yet received  confirmation that 
Mrs M has been discharged from her bankruptcy, so the mortgage account remains  open. 
As a result, a letter and statement was automatically  triggered when the property was sold at 
a shortfall.
I dont therefore  think that Topaz has done anything wrong in this case.  If Mrs M sends in the 
remaining documents confirming shes been discharged from her bankruptcy  it should then 
update the accounts. And while I dont  doubt Mrs M would prefer  not to receive letters  in the 
meantime, shes aware of her legal  position and liability, so I dont think  shes  been caused 
significant trouble  or upset by the letter she received.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Ref: DRN92614102Simon Pugh  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9261410