K820x#14complaint
A complaint has been brought on behalf  of the Estate of Mr M by Miss O, his granddaughter,  
who says that Motability Operations Limited  has unfairly failed to recognise a lease  
extension for a car hired  to Mr M. 
background 
In December 2010 Mr M hired  a car via Motability.  The lease term was for a minimum 
period of 3 years and the car was comprehensively insured for that period. The car had two 
permitted drivers in addition to Mr M, one of which was Miss O. 
In August  2013  Motability wrote  to Mr M informing him that the youre due to hand back  your 
current car on X date in December 2013. This letter came  with a guide  about leasing the 
next car and provided a date in September 2013  from which a new car could be ordered  if a 
new lease was to be taken out. It also reminded Mr M that he needed to have the car MOTd 
before it was returned. 
In October  2013 the car failed an MOT  due to an issue with a headlight. No new test was 
booked. Motability  wrote  to Mr M at the beginning of December 2013 saying it hadnt been 
able to get hold of him to arrange the further  MOT and asking him to have this done. 
Motability says there was no contact from Mr M and so the lease ended on the three  year 
anniversary of the hire agreement starting.  Motability also says that as the car wasnt  
returned it tried to make contact with Mr M but wasnt able to do so as the phone  number for 
him didnt  work. It obtained a phone number  for Miss O and left two messages on different 
dates. 
Around one week  after the lease end date Miss O had an accident while driving  Mr Ms 
leased car. She contacted  the insurer as required by the leases  terms and conditions.  Miss 
O says she was told that the lease and insurance would be extended  to cover her. 
Subsequently Miss O was contacted regarding outstanding costs arising from this accident. 
She complained to Motability as she believed  she had been insured at the time under the 
extended lease  for the car. Motability  disagreed and said Mr Ms lease for the car had never 
been extended and had expired one week before the accident. This meant  there was no 
insurance cover for the accident.  
Miss O complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld.  She said there wasnt any evidence  that there had been agreement  by 
Motability to extend  the lease period for the car. 
The investigator said that in August 2013  Mr M had been sent a letter informing him of the 
date that the lease  terminated. She said that although she agreed the lease could  be 
extended, looking at the evidence it appeared that the first conversation  noted about  actually 
doing so had taken place  after the accident. This was over one week after the lease had 
been due to end, and indeed had ended, and during various calls in both December 2013 
and January 2014 Motability had told Miss O that the lease couldnt be extended at that 
point.
The investigator also said that although  a dealership  had been visited  in December 2013  by 
the named drivers, with a view to taking out a new lease with Motability, this wasnt  evidence 
that an extension  on the old lease had been  agreed.
Ref: DRN91330732Miss O disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said that the letter in August 2013  
was insufficient  to act as notice of the lease coming  to an end, as there was no reference to 
the car needing  to be handed  back. Miss O also queries why there are no longer  recordings 
of the calls she made to Motability.
Finally, Miss O says there was no request from the insurer  to surrender the insurance 
certificate which was a requirement of the Road  Traffic Act 1988  if an insurer was 
terminating a policy. 
As the parties havent  agreed the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that the leasing  period  for a vehicle under  the hire scheme operated by Motability 
is for a minimum period of three years and is extendable. Under the terms and conditions  of 
the lease it says that At any time after the end of the minimum hire term referred to in this 
agreement, we may terminate this agreement by giving you not less than 14 days written 
notice. Motability says the letter it sent Mr M in August 2013 was notice of the end of the 
agreement. Miss O says this was insufficient because the letter didnt  include a reference to 
having to hand the car back.
Looking at this letter, I disagree with Miss Os view. I think it sets out clearly the date that the 
lease will end and it says youre  due to hand your car back  on.   This  letter  also provides 
information on taking  out a new lease  and gives a date from which  a new vehicle can be 
ordered. Im satisfied this letter is giving Mr M clear written notice of the date his lease will 
expire - in line with the agreements terms and conditions.
Motability says there was no contact from Mr M and that after the date for the expiry of the 
lease had passed, it attempted to make  contact with Mr M. It also left messages for Miss O 
after obtaining her telephone number.
From the evidence Ive seen, Miss O only made contact after the accident  had happened 
which was just over a week after the date that the lease expired. There  appears to have 
been a series of calls over the following few days.  Miss O says during one of those calls she 
was told the lease would be extended.
Unfortunately, the recordings  of any phone calls between Motability and its customers are 
destroyed after 12 months. Miss O says they shouldve  been kept for a longer period. But 
under the Data  Protection Act 1988 (which wouldve been applicable  at the time) its a matter 
for a business how long they keep recordings of phone calls and I think  12 months  was a 
reasonable period and wouldve been  in line with other companies. Motability has however 
provided this service with copies of the notes  that were made of the phone calls.
Miss O doesnt appear to have disputed the date of the first call she made to Motability 
requesting an extension of the lease. So Im satisfied the first time extending the lease was 
raised was after the date the lease had come  to an end. 
During the first call to Motability Miss O explained about the accident and also told it that she 
had placed an order for a new leased  car via the Motability scheme  with a dealership. She 
Ref: DRN91330733confirmed that Mr M hadnt  been  present when this order had been  made.  The agent on the 
phone said that they needed to get advice  as the lease on the original car had expired - but 
while getting that advice Miss O either  hung up or the connection  broke. So the call wasnt 
concluded.
The notes show there was another call the following day asking for the lease to be extended.  
Motability said this wasnt  possible and also pointed out that the car had no valid MOT. 
Looking at the notes of the calls I think Motability was consistent in saying that extending the 
lease wasnt possible.  It then made  arrangements  for the car to be collected.
Ive seen that the application for the new lease was cancelled  as its a requirement  that the 
customer, in this case Mr M, attend  the dealership in person to place the order.
Miss O says that she wasnt requested to surrender the insurance certificate which  was a 
requirement under The Road  Traffic Act 1988. But I disagree that the policy was terminated  
early. Ive seen a copy of the policy, which ran from May 2013 until the date that had been 
set for the lease  to expire in December 2013. The policy does contain a Temporary  Cover 
Extension term, which states that cover can be extended for a further seven days if 
Motability has authorised  the use of the vehicle beyond the lease expiry date. However, 
looking at the evidence I was satisfied that Motability  hadnt  given  such  an authorisation -
meaning that the policy ended on the date shown  on the certificate and schedule  of 
insurance. And as the policy had already ended, there wouldve been no requirement for 
Motability to request its surrender.
So looking  at the evidence, Im not upholding the complaint  made on behalf of the Estate of  
Mr M by Miss O. I dont have any evidence that there was an agreement to extend  the lease, 
or that such an extension  was put in place.  Im satisfied the lease ended on the date set out 
in the letter  of August 2013.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding the complaint made on behalf  of the Estate of 
Mr M by Miss O.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O on behalf  
of the Estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9133073