K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Loans 2 Go gave one loan to Mr O. He borrowed £300 in May 2018 and was due to repay  
the loan in 18 monthly instalments of £67.97.  Mr O fell into financial difficulties before making 
any repayments on his loan, and at the time he made his complaint the outstanding balance  
had been transferred to a debt recovery company.
Mr Os complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think the checks 
Loans 2 Go had done before  agreeing  the loan were sufficient. And she ultimately thought  
that better  checks would  have shown it was unlikely that Mr O would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable manner. So she didnt think Loans 2 Go should have given this loan to 
Mr O and she asked it to put things right.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr O accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Os complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave  this loan to Mr O required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what  he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Loans 2 Go had to think  about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr O. 
In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments  wouldnt 
cause Mr O undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN92886352the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed  to before agreeing  
to lend to Mr O.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr O before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income,  and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit  file. Loans 2 Go 
has sent us a copy of the results of its credit  check,  and I will discuss  these  further later in 
this decision.
Mr O was entering into a significant  commitment  with Loans 2 Go. He would need  to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I would  expect  that Loans 2 Go would 
want to gather, and independently check,  some detailed information about  Mr Os financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think  that simply asking Mr O to 
self-declare his income and expenditure  was enough.
The credit check that Loans  2 Go did before agreeing the loan showed that Mr O had 
previously faced some problems managing his credit. He had needed to enter payment 
arrangements on credit  card, utility and bank  accounts. And although he now appeared to 
have brought  his finances back under a degree of control, those problems werent so historic 
that I think it would have been  reasonable for Loans  2 Go to entirely discount  them.
So I think it would have  been proportionate  for Loans 2 Go to independently  check  the true 
state of Mr Os finances before agreeing the loan. I dont think the checks  Loans 2 Go did 
were proportionate to either the term of the loan or what it knew about  Mr Os past financial 
history.
Ive looked at copies of Mr Os bank statements from the time to understand what  better  
checks might have  shown  to the lender.  From  those statements it is clear that Mr O would be 
unlikely to repay this loan in a sustainable manner.  Mr O was spending  far more than his 
normal income on what appear to be online gambling transactions. And he was funding this 
spending, in part, by borrowing from a number of other lenders  - loans that he would need  to 
repay at the same  time as this loan. 
I think that if Loans 2 Go had done  what I consider to be proportionate checks when Mr O 
applied for this loan it would  have  seen the problems he was facing managing his money. 
And so, as a responsible lender, I think it would have declined this loan application. So 
I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things  right for Mr O.
putting things right
Ref: DRN92886353Although I dont think Loans 2 Go should have given this loan to Mr O, he has had the 
benefit of the principal  amount that he borrowed. I think  it is fair and reasonable for me to 
expect Mr O to repay that principal amount to Loans 2 Go. I understand that Loans  2 Go has 
now sold Mr Os debt to a third party. So to put things right Loans 2 Go should;
Calculate the total of interest  and charges that it, or the third party  debt collection 
company, has added the principal  amount that Mr O borrowed .
Arrange with the third party to reduce Mr Os outstanding balance  by the amount of 
interest and charges  calculated above.  If that is not possible the total of the interest 
and charges should be refunded directly  to Mr O so he can choose whether or not to 
use the refund to reduce his outstanding  balance.
Attempt to agree  an affordable repayment  arrangement with Mr O for any remaining 
balance, or encourage the third party that now owns the debt to do so.
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Os credit  file in relation to the loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Loans  2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9288635