K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to him.
background
Mr E was sold a PPI policy with a credit card in 2000. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Es complaint didnt think  Tesco  explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policy clearly  to Mr E. And he didnt think  Mr E wouldve bought the 
policy if it had. Tesco disagrees, so Mr Es complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Tesco had a duty to give Mr E enough clear information about the PPI so he could make an 
informed decision about whether he wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think Tesco did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if Tesco  had given Mr E the clear 
information he needed he wouldnt have bought the policy.
The policy was sold through a postal  application.  I have a copy  of the postal application form 
Mr E filled in. It has no cost or benefit  information on the front page where Tesco  strongly 
recommends he takes  it by ticking a box. And on the following page, it provides the cost as 
70p for every £100 outstanding, but doesnt mention that interest  is applied  to the cost or 
that he would continue paying the premium in the event of a claim. And there  is nothing  Ive 
seen that draws Mr Es attention to the true costs when he was filling the postal application 
form in. 
If Tesco had provided  enough information  about the costs and benefits of the policy, I think 
its unlikely Mr E wouldve  gone ahead with the policy. I say this because Mr E says he had 
substantial sick pay entitlement from his employer and over £30,000 in savings. 
Tesco says that Mr E should  prove  he had those  savings  and that Mr E opened his credit  
card account  with a balance  transfer  suggesting  he might not have had the savings. But this 
sale took place19  years ago and understandably Mr E cant  get the proof after all this time. 
But he has provided  what I think is plausible  and credible testimony about how he gained the 
savings through  inheriting a house from his relatives. And his substantial  sick pay 
entitlement is plausible based on his type of employment and his number of years service.  
So I think its more likely  than not that he did have the savings  and sick pay entitlement he 
says he had and he wouldnt have bought the policy if had received enough information to 
make his decision.
So I think Mr E has lost out because of what  Tesco  has done wrong and so it should put 
things right.
Ref: DRN92746932putting things right
Tesco should put Mr E in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI:
A.Tesco should find out how much Mr E would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mr E owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr E made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Mr E would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr E 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Tesco should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mr E paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr E would  
have owed Tesco something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If Tesco has already  paid Mr E compensation in relation to the commission and profit  
share it got from the PPI policy, it can deduct this from the redress calculated  in A and B.
D.Tesco should tell Mr E what its done to work  out the amount payable to him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Es complaint  and direct  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC 
to put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9274693