K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  didnt follow her instructions when she 
asked it to freeze joint accounts.
background
Mrs M had three joint accounts with Nationwide. There was a dispute between  her and the 
other signatory and she asked Nationwide not to allow any withdrawals on the accounts. But 
the other signatory was able to make two withdrawals. Mrs M wants  Nationwide  to return  
that money and pay her compensation.
Nationwide accepted itd made a mistake but pointed out that the joint accounts had been 
opened for the benefit of two children.  So the money the other signatory had withdrawn 
didnt belong  to Mrs M but shouldve been  given to the children  or re-invested for their 
benefit. It sent her a cheque for £75 as compensation for its mistake.
The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide should  do any more.  Nationwide  told her itd received 
conflicting information from both signatories  about the joint accounts and the purpose of 
them. And it didnt  know whod benefitted  from the money the other signatory had withdrawn. 
So she didnt think it should  have to refund the money.  
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said the childrens  money hadnt been protected by Nationwide  and 
that it should be held responsible.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mrs M feels about  this so I know she will be disappointed  with my 
decision. But theres very little I can add to the adjudicators opinion.
It seems  that the other signatory opened  the accounts and then added  Mrs M as another  
signatory. Nationwide accepts it made a mistake after Mrs M asked it to stop any 
withdrawals on the joint accounts. Its paid her compensation but it wont  refund the 
withdrawals.
The accounts were  opened for the benefit of two children. Mrs M accepts the money belongs 
to the children but she doesnt accept that the two withdrawals couldve been used for the 
benefit of those children. So she wants Nationwide to return  that money. But both the 
signatories have  given Nationwide different explanations about the money  held in the 
accounts. So Nationwide isnt able to make  a decision about whether the funds were 
withdrawn improperly. So until the dispute  between the two signatories is resolved it cant 
pursue the other signatory for the return of the funds. All it can do is to keep  the accounts 
frozen to protect the remaining funds until the dispute is sorted out. 
Mrs M says thats not the point; the money  in the accounts belongs to the children and 
should be returned to them. But unfortunately because there is this dispute Nationwide cant 
do anything about  returning the funds. All it can do is compensate Mrs M for its mistake. Its 
sent her a cheque for £75 which I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN97195542my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9719554