K821x#15complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account in error  
and this resulted  in it having to cease  trading.
background
HSBC wrote to A to say that it was carrying out a safeguard exercise to help protect 
customers against fraud and financial crime. And that A needed to check  its details and 
provide information  within  60 days. It didnt do so and HSBC sent it a letter in February 2018 
giving notice that it would close the account. A complained and it was given until 27 April 
2018 to complete the safeguard exercise.  A submitted further information in March  and April 
2018 but HSBC said that the trading address and ownership structure  given didnt tie up to 
publically available records and to what HSBC  had previously recorded.
On 27 April 2018 a representative of A spoke to HSBC.  He was told that the issue  with the 
ownership structure was resolved. And that the trading address needed to be amended by 
completing a change of address form. He was told that the deadline was extended for a 
month to allow for this. He sent the form in and also later emailed the call handler as there 
was still a message  on the online account  showing that the address details did not match.
HSBC still closed the account  at the end of May 2018 and A complained about this. A says it 
lost business as it was unable to take credit  card payments and to withdraw money  to pay 
wages or suppliers. It says that the error made  by HSBC  led to it having  to stop trading. And 
it wants compensation for this and the loss of income for its director.  HSBC offered to pay it 
£400 for inconvenience.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld  and that the compensation be 
increased to £800.  She said that:
-HSBC could close the account by giving two months notice. But here A had been  led 
to believe that it had provided  all the information  required and that the account would 
not be closing  at the end of May 2018. So HSBC should have given it notice again.
-A could  not use its bank account  and the director had to use a personal account to 
help manage its income and expenditure. Any credit  card settlements were going  to 
the overdraft and could not be used for expenditure and wages.
-A did not get another  card processing terminal for two to three  weeks  and then could  
not take advance deposits. It had to ask some clients to pay by cash and she 
accepted this led to inconvenience to the company.
-She wasnt persuaded that A did not recover some trading. Its income for August 
2018 was higher  than that in 2017. It was not until September 2018 that turnover fell 
dramatically. And it seemed to have been able to replace some of the card payments 
with cash transactions.  She thought that a sales  promotion planned  for June  and July 
2018 could perhaps  have  been  delayed but still have  gone ahead.
A did not agree. It said that it had provided the same information as part of the safeguard 
review that it had when  the account was opened. It had been told it had met all the 
requirements. The trend in sales was down even if one month showed some  recovery. The 
company went from trading reasonably  to struggling as a result of the closure of the bank 
account. It couldnt take credit card payments or phone  bookings. This all led to the closure 
of the business.  A said it had provided all the information necessary to show  this.
Ref: DRN95366352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the account closure
The circumstances in which As account came  to be closed do not appear to be in dispute. 
HSBC had reasonably allowed A extra time to confirm  some of its information.  And A had 
the clear impression it had satisfied those  requirements and that the account would not be 
closed. HSBC says the account stopped  operating on Tuesday 29 May 2018. And it records  
that A complained about this on 31 May 2018.
I agree  with our adjudicator that it would have been reasonable for HSBC  to give A the 
normal period of notice  again if it still intended to close the account. So I need  to think  
particularly about  what happened in the period of two months after the end of May 2018.
assessing any financial loss
This service provides informal dispute  resolution.  And we use the evidence and comments  
supplied to us to make findings on a balance of probabilities   that is what  we think  is more 
likely to have happened. A has been represented  here by a company official  with an 
accountancy qualification and I accept the actual turnover and expenses figures its provided 
to us.
The main  issue I need to decide  on is whether or not the closure  of the account  caused A to 
stop trading  thats much more than saying that As turnover slowed down after the account  
was closed. A has shown  that its turnover in the months May to July 2018 was about 25 per 
cent down on the same period in the prior year. And I accept that the trend did not improve  
even if August 2018 was slightly better  than in 2017.  
Its reasonable to think A might have  lost some business at the very end of May especially 
when it had just found out what had happened. But turnover  in both April and May 2018 was 
already showing  a downward trend  on 2017- down by about  15 per cent. 
There was nothing to stop A continuing  to take payments by cash and encouraging more  of 
its clients to pay by cash. Its own figures  seem to show that cash payments fell in the 
months May to July 2018  by about  15 per cent compared to 2017. I accept that a difficulty for 
A was that credit card settlements went to its HSBC  bank account. And these were not going 
to be available  as HSBC expected it to pay off the overdraft  which  A had the previous benefit 
of. I know  that there was some confusion by HSBC  about whether that facility  was still in 
place or not. But in practice A could not access  money  in its account.
However, if it was a question of either  taking credit  card payments  or turning down business 
altogether Im unclear why A wouldnt still have accepted these credit  card payments. And 
within at most three weeks  A says it had an alternative means of processing payments. I 
know it couldnt take card deposits which risked customers cancelling  - but again  that risk 
might have been better than turning business  down.
A has said that June  and July are two key months when it runs a promotion.  My 
understanding is that it decided not to do so, rather than as the adjudicator says choose to 
Ref: DRN95366353delay it. I tend to agree  with her that still running this would seem to have been a likely  way 
of avoiding some turnover reduction.
The director  of A says she used her own account  to help manage and mitigate some of the 
issues. I am not clear  what  efforts A took to arrange  a permanent replacement  bank  account  
in the two months after its HSBC account  closed   the period it ought  to have been given to 
do so.
my assessment
My view is that As turnover  was already showing  some signs of reduction. And Im not 
persuaded that the unavoidable impact  on trading of the account being closed was in 
practice significantly more  than that during  the three  weeks to get a replacement  card 
payment solution.  And as I say even  before that there may have been ways  at least to 
sustain some turnover if not immediate  cash  flow. Im also not persuaded that the closure of 
the account would have  meant it had to cancel a very important promotion altogether. In 
summary I dont find on balance that HSBCs  actions in closing the account  without  notice 
most likely led to A having to stop trading.
As claim  for compensation is for over £160,000 and is based on it having to stop trading and 
pay redundancy costs  and cover asset write offs. And to compensate its director for actual 
and future  loss of earnings and effectively her stake in A valued at £1,000 for each of the 30 
years of trading.  My finding about the impact  of HSBCs actions means  I wont be looking at 
a financial loss claim on this basis. And A is a separate legal entity  to the director  so I can 
only look at the impact on it  where it has incurred an actual loss.
In my judgement A has been  caused substantial inconvenience and disruption by what  has 
happened. For the reasons Ive given I dont have a firm basis  to quantify a financial loss. So 
my approach  is going to be to reflect what I think is a fair award in a payment  of 
compensation. In my judgement  the appropriate  level of compensation is £1,000 - a bit 
higher than anything HSBC has so far agreed to - but obviously far lower  than anything  A 
might want.  This has to be paid to A, the complainant  here, and which based on publically 
available records is still in existence. I appreciate how disappointed its director  will be by my 
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC  Bank  Plc to pay A 
£1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9536635