K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that in 2003 Barclays  Bank UK plc trading as The Woolwich  
(Barclays) mis-sold  them  a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.  The 
policy was set up to cover Mr M only.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Firstly, Ive looked at whether Barclays made  it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs M that the 
policy was optional. Barclays told us this MPPI  was sold in a branch. Mr and Mrs M told us 
that they dont  recall  any meeting. Mr M also told us that since 1997  he has never  accepted 
PPI when it was offered.
Barclays has been able to provide a copy of a form recording the meeting which was signed 
by Mr and Mrs M. The purpose of the meeting  was to convert their mortgage to a repayment 
mortgage. So it appears that a meeting did take place. 
No further original paperwork from the meeting is available. This isnt surprising or 
unreasonable given that the mortgage was redeemed in 2004.  And its understandable given 
that over 15 years have  passed, that Mr and Mrs M no longer remember  the meeting.
 
I dont doubt that the recollections of Mr and Mrs M are genuinely held. I accept its possible 
the adviser may have said something  to make Mr and Mrs M think they needed to take the 
policy. But having  considered all the available evidence including  the testimony from Mr and 
Mrs M, I think its most  likely  that they understood they could decline the MPPI but they 
decided it would be useful  for them. Ive explained  the reasons for this below. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, it looks like Mr M met those rules.  
Ive also checked  the main  exclusions  and restrictions  of the policy  and given his 
circumstances, it doesnt look like Mr M would have been caught  out by any of them.
Ref: DRN97341632Next, Ive considered  that Mr M would have been  entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay 
from his employer. But I dont think this is enough  for me to say the MPPI wasnt  suitable for 
Mr and Mrs M. The policy was designed to provide a specific  safety  net for their home. If 
Mr M was too ill to work  or was made  unemployed, the policy would have  paid their 
mortgage repayment. This would have given them peace of mind and security. It would have 
allowed Mr and Mrs M to use any sick pay or redundancy monies for other necessary 
household expenses. 
So overall, having considered all these  factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable 
and the MPPI would have provided them with a useful benefit which was affordable for them.  
Finally, Barclays  had to give Mr and Mrs M information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could  make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take 
the MPPI.  
Ive considered the possibility that Barclays didnt give Mr and Mrs M clear  enough  
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  But the 
MPPI was reasonably  priced and provided a reasonable  benefit.  And for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Mr M wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, such as a pre-existing medical  condition. Overall, even if theyd been given 
clearer information I think Mr and Mrs M would still have chosen to take out the MPPI. So in 
this complaint I dont  require Barclays  to put anything right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9734163