K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limiteds (Royal 
London) handling of claims  made  against  a number of whole of life policies.
background
In 2016, Miss A made several claims in respect of her grandfather and great-grandfathers  
industrial branch whole  of life policies. These were set up in the 1930s and 1940s. Sadly, 
Miss As grandfather died in 1985  and her great-grandfather died in 1973,  but it was only 
lately that she discovered the whole of life policies existed.
Policies ending  969, 563 and 564 all belonged to her grandfather  and were  non-profit 
polices. Policies ending 599 and 528 also belonged  to her grandfather but were with-profit 
as was the policy ending 366 which belonged to her great-grandfather. However, the 
premiums stopped being paid on policy ending 528, which meant it was converted  to an 
Automatic Free Policy (AFP) and was given a new non-profit  sum assured.
In terms of the with-profit policies, Miss A received the following amounts:
599  sum assured £30.10 with bonuses of £90.44 plus net interest of £314.10
528  AFP sum assured £97.13  plus net interest  of £253.10
366  sum assured £13.50 with bonuses of £11.47 plus net interest of £298.95
In respect of the non-profit policies ending 969, 563 and 564, Miss A was initially  told by 
Royal London that these were no longer valid. But after Miss A questioned  this, 
Royal London found it had made a mistake and she was able to claim a total of £75.80 and 
received £100  in compensation  for the mistakes made. Miss A considered  the claim 
amounts too low. After it checked the policies again,  Royal  London realised it had made  
another error  in not paying interest  along with some  discretionary  bonuses.  The discretionary 
bonuses increased  the amounts paid as follows:
969 - £52.32  (£24.82 added as a bonus)
563 - £21.08  (£10.48 added as a bonus)
564 - £76.31  (£38.31 added as a bonus)
With interest this brought the total sums paid to £670.91. Further,  Royal  London didnt 
deduct the payment Miss A already received of £75.80, which it said she could keep as a 
gesture of goodwill. And it paid a further £150  in compensation.
Miss A remained unhappy with Royal Londons  handling of her claims, so brought  her 
complaint to our service. She said she no longer trusted Royal Londons  calculations  of all 
six claims. She said she wanted our service to carry out an independent audit of the policies.
 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged the way 
Royal London had handled Miss As latest  claims had been frustrating for her. But in respect 
of the non-profit  policies,  our investigator considered Royal London had redone its 
calculations. And it provided  Miss A with a reasonable explanation as to why it had initially 
calculated the payments  without interest and discretionary  bonuses.  She also felt the 
compensation Miss A received totalling  £250  along with the additional payment of £75.80, 
was fair. And as there was no evidence of any errors with the with-profit policies, our 
investigator felt Royal London didnt need to do anything further.
Ref: DRN97213952Our investigator explained to Miss A that whilst this service could look to see whether  the 
business had acted fairly, it wasnt within  our remit to undertake an independent audit. As 
Miss A disagreed, the matter has been  passed  to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
It seems  that Miss A wants this service  to carry out an independent audit  on the way 
Royal London has calculated the claims. As explained by our investigator,  this isnt the role 
of our service. My role is to see if Miss A has been treated fairly by the business, and if not, 
to ensure shes put her back into the position she shouldve been but for the mistakes. So 
this is what I will now do.
non-profit policies
All of three polices  ending 969, 563 and 564 were previously with Royal  Liver  which  
Royal London acquired a few years  ago. The sums assured were  all in Miss As 
grandfathers name. Given the passage of time, there are very few documents  relating to the 
policies. But I can see from documents provided by Miss A and the business, that these are 
industrial branch, non-profit policies. So in return for a guaranteed sum,  Miss As 
grandfather paid small weekly premiums until he reached the age of 70, at which  point they 
were paid in full. This meant the business was able to pay out the full sums assured 
following his death.
Although these policies were  non-profit, bonuses were sometimes  added  on a discretionary 
basis. But there was no obligation for the business  to do so. And the amount of bonuses,  if 
any, was a commercial  decision taken by the business at the time. After  checking the 
historical records of Royal  Liver, I see Royal London  found  these  policies were  due some 
discretionary bonuses.  I note this increased the value of the claims as shown above. I can 
see these werent added to begin with. But given the age of the policies and the fact 
Royal London needed to check the historical  records of another business (Royal Liver),  I 
think its explanation  for the mistakes and delays  is reasonable.
Further, I see Royal London  added interest  from the date of death  in 1985 to the date of the 
claim in 2016. And taking  account of the compensation paid to Miss A for its errors, totalling 
£250, as well as an extra payment of £75.80,  I think Royal  London has acted  fairly.  So I 
wont be asking it to do anything further in regards  to these  claims.
with-profit policies
Because of its mistakes, I can appreciate why Miss A doubted the calculations  of the claims 
Royal London had previously settled. These claims were in respect of two policies ending 
599 and 528, in the name of her grandfather - and a policy ending 366, in the name of her 
great-grandfather. Unlike the other policy documents, these are clearly marked with-profit. I 
can see up until Royal London  made mistakes with the non-profit policies, Miss A was 
satisfied with the amounts she was paid in respect of these with-profit policies. And 
recently, Royal London gave Miss A further  details of the breakdown  of the sums  paid.  And 
Miss As response to the business indicates she is satisfied with their explanation.
Ref: DRN97213953So overall, I can see no evidence which persuades  me that the policies would pay amounts 
greater than the sums Miss A received.  Further, Im satisfied Royal London  has put things  
right for its mistakes  by paying Miss A an appropriate level of compensation for the 
inconvenience this caused her.
So whilst I express my condolences and understanding to Miss A and her family  for the 
circumstances that gave rise to these claims, for the reasons Ive given above,  Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9721395