K821x#15complaint
Mr G and Miss M complain about the service they got from Target Servicing  Limited when 
they applied for a Deed of Postponement (DOP). Mr G and Miss M want Target to either 
proceed with the DOP or refund the professional fees they incurred.
background
In July 2018 Mr G and Miss M got an offer from the freeholder which was disposing of its 
interest in a number  of properties of which their flat was one. They  applied  to their qualifying  
lender for additional borrowing to buy their share of the freehold.  On 9 October 2018 the 
lender sent a DOP which  reached Target who would process the application. Mr G and 
Miss M complain about the way that Target  handled the matter and that Target seemed to 
be operating on the basis  that there  was going to be a remortgage rather than additional 
lending from the existing lender. 
Mr G and Miss M were under pressure to meet a completion target set by the freeholder  to 
purchase the property.  On 30 October  Target told Mr G and Miss M that they werent 
prepared to postpone the charge. Mr G and Miss M had further discussions with Target  on 5 
November where they understood  that the DOP might be approved  but were then told on 14 
November by Target that it wouldnt  approve the DOP.
Our adjudicator believed  that Target  could have told Mr G and Miss M earlier in the 
application process that it wouldnt  allow a DOP  for this purpose. So, our adjudicator 
recommended compensation of £200. Target disagreed saying  in summary that Mr G and 
Miss M hadnt raised  a complaint about  the service they got.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr G and Miss M approached their lender to fund the cost of buying  out the freehold in their 
property. That lender required them to get a DOP  from Target  agreeing to postpone its 
charge in favour of the lender. Target says that that it only facilitates a DOP if a customer 
wants to remortgage and redeem its loan in full or in part. Mr G and Miss M have referred  to 
sections of the equity mortgage contract that they say indicates that Target  should  facilitate a 
further advance  by the lender to allow them  to purchase the freehold.  But after reading the 
relevant section I cant agree with Mr G and Miss M that it requires Target  to provide a DOP 
if they are getting a loan to buy the freehold. So, I cant fairly require Target to provide the 
DOP.
The other issue is as to how Target dealt  with the request. Mr G and Miss Ms lender wrote 
on 9 October asking for a DOP saying that it wanted it for the Purchase of the freehold and 
refinance So, Target should have  been clear from that time what  the purpose  of the DOP 
was and presumably could have informed the lender  or Mr G and Miss M that it wasnt going  
to provide that. Mr G and Miss M were  under pressure  of time to get the matter sorted and 
made a number of calls about  it to Target in October. 
Mr G and Miss M were clearly anxious but Target  didnt tell them  that it wouldnt facilitate the 
application until 30 October.  As the DOP  was against Targets  policy,  Mr G and Miss M 
Ref: DRN96059332could have avoided  unnecessary phone  calls and stress had they been told this from the 
start. Ive listened to the calls. Mr G sometimes refers to remortgaging which  in certain  
circumstances Target would allow but in the calls he also talks about  borrowing money  to 
purchase the freehold which  the Target adviser should have been aware isnt a reason for 
Target to agree a DOP.
My view is that by not telling Mr G and Miss M about this earlier,  Target provided them  with a 
poor service for which they should get compensation. I note that Mr G and Miss M incurred 
some professional fees but they did that independently of Target and I dont believe that 
Target should reimburse those,
Target says that Mr G and Miss M didnt complain  about the service they got from Target.  
Our adjudicator noted that in their complaint letter Mr G and Miss M make  several  references  
to their disappointment  at the service  provided.  He also noted  that in its response Target 
replied that At Target HCA we strive to provide the best service possible for our customers  
and we are disappointed to hear we have  not met your expectations on this occasion. That 
suggests that Target were aware that Mr G and Miss M had issues with the service provided.  
So for the above reasons  I am upholding this complaint  in respect  of that service and I 
believe that compensation of £200  for Mr G and Miss Ms trouble and upset is fair. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Target Servicing  Limited to pay Mr G 
and Miss M £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9605933