K820x#14complaint
Mr O has an endowment savings plan with Aviva  Insurance Services  UK Limited. He has 
complained after the plan was deemed  paid up after the non-receipt  of premiums. 
background
Mr O took out a twenty-year endowment assurance savings plan with Aviva  in          
February 2002. The plan had a monthly  premium  of £100.
In May 2019  Aviva  wrote to Mr O to tell him that the plan had been converted  to paid-up, as 
they had not received a monthly premium for the plan since  January 2018.  
Mr O was unhappy as he said he wasnt aware that the monthly payments hadnt been  
successful and he did not want the plan converted to paid-up.
Aviva responded to Mr O to say that they had written to him on 9 February 2018,                  
5 March 2018, 1 June  2018, and 2 January 2019 to make him aware that the premiums  had 
not been paid. They also said that they were not able to do anything further due to HMRC 
regulations. They confirmed they had also written to him in March  2019, to make  him aware 
that the policy was being  converted to paid-up.  
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view that it couldnt
be upheld. He confirmed  that he felt that Aviva had acted  fairly in making several attempts to 
contact Mr O regarding the missed premiums. He also felt that Mr O should have been 
aware that £100 was not being taken from his account on a monthly basis  for over a year.  
Mr O remained  unhappy and as no agreement was reached, the case has been
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the
complaint should  be upheld.
I understand that Mr O had been  paying  into this plan for sixteen years and I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that there were any significant issues with payments in this time. 
However, its clear that for whatever reason these monthly payments did stop in       
February 2018.
Whilst the obligation is on Mr O to ensure that these  payments are made. I would expect 
Aviva to act fairly and reasonably  in doing  enough to make Mr O aware there was an amount 
outstanding. Aviva has confirmed that it wrote to Mr O on four occasions to let him know that 
the payments  were  not being made.  
It is disappointing that Avivas system does not allow for a copy of these letters to be 
retained. However, they have provided us with system screenshots  to show payment chaser 
letters were sent on those dates. So, I am satisfied that the letters were sent and that that 
Aviva did enough  to contact Mr O.
Ref: DRN94900082I know Mr O has said that he didnt receive these letters  but as Ive already said I am 
satisfied from the screen shots provided  that the letters  were  sent.  I have also checked the 
address to which the letters were  sent and can see the address was correct  and is the one 
we currently have for Mr O. I cannot hold Aviva responsible for Mr O not receiving them. 
Further to this, I do think its reasonable that Mr O would  have  noticed  that a £100 monthly 
premium had not been debited from his account  for over a year. 
Despite the situation and being of the view Aviva  hadnt done anything  wrong  in its handling  
of Mr Os policy our investigator did ask Aviva if they would be willing to reinstate the plan if   
Mr O made  payment of the missed premiums.  However, it was confirmed that HMRC would 
not allow it as more than 13 months had passed  without receipt of a premium. This is normal  
from my experiences of these issues.
In summary,  whilst I understand  Mr O is disappointed with the plan being made paid-up 
against his wishes,  I do not think that Aviva have done anything  wrong  or could do anything 
more. They  made  fair and reasonable efforts to contact Mr O following missed payments  and 
unfortunately the plan isnt able to be reinstated. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9490008