K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  unfairly 
terminated his finance agreement and recorded  a default on his credit file. He wants  the 
agreement reinstated  and the default  removed.
background
Mr H tells us he advised VWFS in early  January 2019 that he was in financial difficulty  and 
might be unable to meet  repayment instalments on his hire purchase agreement. And he 
said he kept VWFS in touch to make them aware of how his situation was developing. This 
included advising VWFS that a family member was willing to assist  with him clearing the 
arrears but that there might be a delay as the relative concerned was out of the country. 
Mr H says that on 23 April, during a phone call to VWFS, he became aware that a default 
notice had been sent which at the time he hadnt  received  in the post.  But that when  he rang 
back on 29 April - to pay the arrears - he was told the agreement  had already been 
terminated. Mr H further  states  that when he learned  of this he made a subject access report  
request in order to assist  his complaint. But he says hes yet to receive this despite a delay  
of several months.
VWFS said that the arrears had been  discussed  with Mr H on 23 April 2019 and hed been 
advised the default notice  expired  on 26 April.  It said Mr H had been told he was at risk of 
the agreement  being terminated  and that hed advised VWFS that hed call back by then. It 
said that as no call was received and the arrears  werent paid the agreement was terminated 
on 27 April. VWFS told us that when  Mr H called  on 29 April to clear the arrears he was 
notified the agreement had been  terminated and the process was irreversible.  VWFS said 
the decision to terminate hadnt  been  taken lightly but it felt it was the right course of action.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
account had fallen into arrears and a default  warning notice had been sent. She said that on 
23 April 2019 Mr H had spoken  with VWFS and had been informed that the default  notice  
was due to expire  on 26 April. And after that date - if the arrears werent cleared - VWFS 
would be able to terminate the agreement  and seek repossession  of the vehicle. She said 
that VWFS went ahead on 27 April and terminated the agreement when the arrears 
remained outstanding.  She said she didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. He said he hadnt received the default notice and had 
paid the arrears when  hed been made aware.  As its not been  possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95066522Im sorry  that Mr H experienced financial difficulties and I can understand that this would  be 
a worrying time. I also accept that he took the correct  step in notifying VWFS of the problems 
he was facing. Ive seen notes that show from January 2019 there was contact  with VWFS 
and discussions about various options including terminating the agreement.  At the same 
time Ive seen that VWFS - as it was required to do - sent a notice of arrears in February 
2019, followed by a reminder letter in March. And on 7 April a notice of default  was sent 
which required Mr H to clear the arrears of over £1,900 by 26 April 2019.
Im aware that Mr H has told us that he didnt receive the default notice and that he first 
became aware  of it in the phone call to VWFS on 23 April 2019. Ive no reason to doubt this 
but VWFS cant be held responsible for the failures  of a third party  to deliver  mail.  And I dont 
think this affects my final decision. Ill explain  why.
Where a business is notified that a customer is facing financial difficulty  wed expect the 
business to treat the customer fairly and try to find a way of working through  the difficulties. 
There are no fixed methods which have to be used as each situation  is different. And in 
discussing various options with Mr H, I think VWFS has treated him fairly. But whilst 
discussions and / or negotiations  are ongoing  wed still expect a business to be fulfilling 
formal obligations  such as sending notices of arrears and/ or default. And wed expect  a 
business to default an account  when between three and six months  arrears  have  been  
accumulated. Mr Hs account was three months  in arrears when defaulted.
Its not in dispute  that Mr H was aware of the arrears  and Ive seen from VWFS contact 
notes that the potential  consequences of this were  discussed with him. I can also see that on 
3 April 2019 Mr H raised the possibility of obtaining funds from a relative. And he said hed 
call VWFS back by 8 April. The default  notice was issued  on 7 April and I cant  see that Mr H 
made the promised  call. Had he done so its likely hed have been  informed  of the default 
notice. When he next phoned, on 23 April, he was informed  that the notice had been issued 
and expired on 26 April 2019.
Ive listened to a recording  of this phone call and in summary, theres a discussion about  the 
default and the process  which would occur if this was applied.  And Mr H was advised by the 
call handler that he needed  to clear  the arrears  before the default notice expired. Just before 
the end of the phone call Mr H asks the call handler:
Basically, I have until Friday to clear the arrears is that what  youre saying?
The call handler replies:
From the moment the default expires  its at risk of termination from that moment
And in reply  to Mr H asking what termination  means she goes on to explain that it would 
mean that the vehicle would be repossessed and sold and that Mr H would be liable to pay 
any outstanding  balance that remained on the agreement. 
Mr H replies:
So worst case is that the default ends  on Friday is what were saying and he concludes: 
I will come back to you before Friday.
Ref: DRN95066523I think its clear  from this conversation that whether or not Mr H received the default notice 
he was fully aware that the arrears needed  to be cleared by Friday 26 April 2019. And that 
he also knew of the probable consequences  of not meeting this deadline. Its not in dispute 
that the arrears  were  not cleared by that time. And I cant see that Mr H phoned back  to offer 
any explanation  until 29 April 2019 when he phoned  to clear the arrears. As the agreement 
was terminated  on 27th April unfortunately this call proved too late to prevent this. I know  that 
Mr H says he didnt think VWFS  office  was open on a Saturday so that he called on the 
following Monday.  But I dont think this assists his case. He was aware  the arrears needed to 
be cleared by Friday  26 April and that the agreement could be terminated if this were not 
done. Even if hed been able to get through to VWFS on the Saturday this wouldnt have 
avoided the terms  of the default notice being  breached. Whilst its not been specifically 
confirmed I infer that the notice to terminate the agreement and apply the default  are 
probably computer  generated responses. So when the payment hadnt been made the 
process was automatically  commenced.
Ive some sympathy for Mr H that the relatively  small delay in his paying the arrears has led 
to the termination of the agreement and the financial loss to him that is likely to ensue. But I 
cant say he wasnt aware of this. Nor can I reasonably find that VWFS has done anything  
wrong in terminating  the agreement when it did. I dont agree with Mr Hs contention that the 
expiry of the default  notice should have  been calculated from the date he actually  became  
aware of it. As Ive already said its clear from the relevant  phone  call that Mr H knew the 
importance of meeting  the existing deadline.
I did ask VWFS if it would  consider - as a gesture  of goodwill - reinstating  the agreement  
upon payments  and arrears being made up to date. But Ive received a response declining  
this suggestion.  VWFS has said that if Mr H wants to retain the vehicle hell have to settle 
the full amount on the termination  notice.
In summary,  I think VWFS followed the correct process before terminating the agreement.  
And its applied  the default in line with the timescales wed expect. As VWFS is under an 
obligation to provide accurate information  to any credit reference agencies to which  it reports 
I cant say its done  anything wrong  in having the default recorded. And I shant be asking it 
to remove this. 
In conclusion, Im also aware that since the agreement was terminated Mr H has made a 
subject access request to VWFS in order to assist with this complaint. I can see theres been 
a delay with him receiving  this and I understand this would be frustrating. But as this has 
occurred after the agreement was terminated I cant say it had any effect on that process.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9506652