K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is unfairly charging her 
the years premium when  she cancelled her car insurance policy. 
All reference to Advantage includes the administrator of the policy.
background
Miss W renewed  her car insurance policy in June  2018. A week later she reported an 
incident to Advantage. She said she reversed  into another car while driving at low speed. 
The other drivers insurer made a claim to Advantage.  Miss W didnt make a claim for 
damage to her car. 
In August  2018  Miss W called Advantage on a couple of occasions  as she was looking to 
change her car and wanted to discuss a quote  for a replacement  car. Miss W found the 
quotes Advantage gave her were too high.
In September  2018 Miss W asked Advantage to cancel  her policy  as shed sold her car. 
Advantage said that because there  was an open  claim  under  her policy, Miss W owed the 
balance of the yearly  premium along  with a cancellation fee of £45. 
Miss W complained to Advantage. She said that in a previous call, Advantage  told her it 
wouldnt charge  her anything if she cancelled the policy. And so she bought  a policy  
elsewhere to insure a replacement car. Miss W said shed made her decision based on what 
Advantage told her. 
Miss W said she couldnt afford to pay Advantage what it said she owed  and pay for 
insurance for the replacement car. 
Advantage said that in August 2918 it initially correctly told Miss W that if she cancelled her 
policy shed owe the rest of the yearly premium  due to the open claim. But in a later call in 
August 2018,  Advantage incorrectly told Miss W that if she cancelled her policy,  there would 
be no refund  and no charge. For this error, Advantage apologised to Miss W and paid her 
compensation of £50. 
However, it said it gave Miss W correct information more  than once - in an earlier call  and 
again in September 2018 when  she decided  to cancel her policy.  And this information  is also 
set out in its policy  so Advantage  didnt uphold this part of Miss Ws complaint. It said 
Miss W could contact  it to make arrangements for a suitable repayment  plan if she wasnt  
able to pay the balance in full. 
Miss W remained unhappy   so she asked us look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Advantage had acted reasonably.  
Miss W didnt agree.  She says the only reason  she cancelled the policy was because  the 
quote she received  for a similar  car meant her premium went  up to £925 a year and she got 
a cheaper quote  from another  insurer. This was almost twice as much  as her renewal 
premium in June 2018. Miss W said shes prepared to pay the cancellation fee of £45. But 
she cant afford to pay the balance  Advantage says she owes. 
Ref: DRN91811472Miss W wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss Ws policy with Advantage  says that if her policy is cancelled  after the 14 day cooling 
off period it will charge  a cancellation fee of £45. It also says under the heading Claims:
No refund of premium will be provided  if you have made a claim, or if one has been 
made against you, during  the period of insurance and if you are paying by 
instalments, you will have  to pay the balance of the annual premium and our 
cancellation fee of £45 will still be payable.
I agree  that Advantages agent wasnt clear in a call on 26 August 2018. Miss W called  to get 
a quote for a replacement car. The agent  gave a quote which Miss W thought was 
expensive. The agent suggested Miss W look to obtain a quote online  and if she bought a 
replacement policy Advantage wouldnt charge her a cancellation fee for cancelling  this 
policy. 
Advantage accepts  this call wasnt handled  well and apologised to Miss W. It paid Miss W 
£50 compensation.  
However, Miss W spoke to Advantage before and after this call: on 23 August 2018 and 12 
September 2018. In both calls, Advantage told Miss W that if she cancelled  her policy,  she 
would owe the full years premium because there  was an open claim.  Advantage was 
dealing with a claim from the other driver. If Miss W took out another policy with Advantage, 
it said it would waive its cancellation  fee. Otherwise, the cancellation fee of £45 was due.
We asked Miss W to provide us with a copy of the policy she bought  when she replaced her 
car in September 2018. Miss W hasnt provided us with a copy. 
So  although I think Advantage could have been clearer  I dont think this means that 
Miss W shouldnt therefore owe the remainder  of the premium  in line with the policy  terms 
and conditions. Advantage  paid Miss W £50 compensation  for the confusion  and 
inconvenience it caused Miss W in one of the calls. I think  this is fair  because  in line with 
the policy terms, she correctly owes the remainder of the yearly  premium due to the third 
party claim. And as Miss W didnt take out a replacement policy with Advantage, she also 
correctly owes the cancellation fee of £45. Advantage  said Miss W can pay the amount she 
owes in instalments. I think this is reasonable. 
Miss W has raised concerns  about the third party claim. As these arent issues  that Miss W 
has complained  to Advantage about,  I cant consider  these in my decision.  Miss W will need 
to contact Advantage and give it the opportunity to reply to her complaint. If she remains  
unhappy, she can bring her concerns about the claim to us to look at.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN91811473Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9181147