K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that payments made using her debit card on her account  with Tesco  
Personal Finance  PLC are not being processed.
background
In November 2018, Mrs C complained  to Tesco that some debit card payments she had 
made in October  had not been  processed, even though they showed  up on her account as 
authorised. This resulted  in missed rent payments, and also charges on her credit card.  
Tesco did not think that the problem  was its fault, but because Tesco  was unable to identify 
precisely what had gone  wrong, it still upheld her complaint, refunded her credit card 
charges, and paid her £130 for her trouble. However, Mrs C said that the problem was still 
persisting, and so she brought  this complaint  to our Service. She told us that the problem 
had started in May 2018, on an earlier debit card. Later on, she said she was also 
experiencing similar trouble with her online payments.
Tesco told us that the problem was not caused by anything it was doing,  and that it was 
likely to be caused by either the merchant or some other intermediary (since there are 
several parties involved in card payments behind the scenes).
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint, on the ground that Tesco  had failed to provide any 
evidence to support  its case, despite being asked to do so several times. She recommended  
that Tesco pay Mrs C another £150. Tesco did not respond to that decision,  despite being 
repeatedly chased  by the adjudicator for a reply. After two months Tesco  asked for more  
time to respond, which was granted, but no further  evidence was provided (apart  from some 
call recordings). Eventually the adjudicator  referred  this case for an ombudsmans  decision. 
After some further delay,  for which I would like to apologise to both parties, this case was 
finally passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am mindful  of the fact that Tesco denies that it is responsible for the problem, and that it 
only paid Mrs C £130 because it was unable to give her a specific explanation of just what  
had gone wrong.  However, I have seen no evidence at all about the attempted  transactions,  
either showing what went wrong or supporting  Tescos assertion that nothing  went wrong 
with the steps  it is responsible for. So while I cant rule out the possibility that it is the 
merchants fault,  I cant  be satisfied that that is the case  particularly since Mrs Cs 
payments to her credit card also failed, which suggests that it was not the fault of one 
merchant, but some  wider  issue.
On balance, I think it would be fair to hold Tesco liable  for the problem, since  otherwise 
Mrs C would be left without a remedy, and if Tesco manages to identify a third party  which is 
responsible then it can seek redress from them.
I will only take into account the debit card payments since October 2018, and not the earlier  
ones, or the online payments, since Tesco does not appear to have had an opportunity to 
investigate them.
Ref: DRN95818522Taking into account the fact that the problem continued to recur after it was reported,  and 
taking into account  the £130  which has already  been paid, I think  that another £150 is fair. 
That is to reflect the stress occasioned by the fact that the problem affected Mrs Cs rental 
payments, and the fact that she had to make nine phone calls.  However,  although the 
problem persisted after our adjudicators decision, Mrs C could have alleviated  the problem 
by using another bank account (either an existing one with another bank, or by opening a 
new one), so I will not increase the award  recommended by the adjudicator.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
pay Mrs C £150, in addition to the £130  which it has paid her already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9581852