K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1988 in connection with a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-
sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs G didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out. Ive seen  a copy  of the mortgage application form. 
This had a separate section for insurance and within  this section there were two equally 
clear options to take or refuse PPI. I note that the yes box has been  ticked  and 
Mr and Mrs G signed  this form. 
 Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so they had to check  
that the PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. I note that Mrs G suffered from a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of the sale. Some PPI policies meant that the consumer wouldnt be 
able to make a claim under the policy  for such a condition. However,  this particular policy  
only excluded claims in the first year. After  this Mrs G could have  made a claim under 
the policy. Given the length of the mortgage the PPI was protecting,  I dont think  the one 
year restriction meant the policy  was unsuitable for Mrs G. And Mrs G could of course 
have made a claim in the first year for unrelated medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything else which meant Mr and Mrs G were  affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
 Which means Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G 
because: 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because  
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc didnt tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN93460832To put that right, Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc has basically offered to pay back the amount 
of commission and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that 
is fair in this case.
As I understand it, Mr and Mrs G have not previously accepted  this offer.  As Mr and Mrs G 
will note,  I have said that Bank of Ireland do still have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any 
commission and profit share they got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said - including  what they have said about:
the way the policy  was marketed;
the wider context and the climate of fear with regards to media reports  of negative 
equity and repossessions  at the time of the sale; and
their existing repayment means. 
But these  points dont  change my decision.  I havent seen anything which would suggest to 
me that undue pressure  was placed on Mr and Mrs G to purchase this policy.  And I dont 
think it would  have  been wrong  for Bank of Ireland to highlight the risks of non-repayment of 
the mortgage. The PPI was protecting  a valuable asset and I can see why it would  have 
been recommended  to Mr and Mrs G in their particular circumstances. I note that the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Gs employee sick pay and for a longer period 
of time. 
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Ireland  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Bank  of Ireland should  also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs G any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bank of Ireland  should pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra  they paid each month  because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank  of Ireland 
should also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments  
before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Ref: DRN93460833Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346083