K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) deducted  £500  from her 
account when  she only withdrew £250.
background
Mrs H withdrew  £250 from her account on 5 March 2019 but says she later noticed that £500 
had been deducted from her account.  She says she told NatWest about the mistake and it 
refunded her money but she says it should  make a gesture of goodwill payment to her.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake  and says it refunded  Miss Hs money on 19 March 2019  
when it became aware of what had happened. Its apologised for its mistake but says Miss H 
hasnt lost out and so compensation isnt appropriate.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought NatWest had dealt fairly with 
the complaint  by refunding the money. The adjudicator  didnt think  Mrs H had suffered any 
financial loss and that she had been  put back in the position she was in before the mistake.
Mrs H doesnt accept  that view and says if a customer had made  a mistake then a business  
would make a charge.  She also questions how the adjudicator could conclude that she didnt 
suffer any financial loss and that she told NatWest about the mistake  and not the other way 
around.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs H will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened.
There is no question here that NatWest  made  a mistake by taking £500 out of Mrs Hs 
account instead of the correct amount of £250.  But Im satisfied that NatWest has apologised  
for its mistake and returned  Mrs Hs money as soon  as it became aware  of the mistake. I 
appreciate Mrs H believes that NatWest should  make a gesture of goodwill payment to her. 
But I dont think Mrs H has told us about any financial  loss she suffered as a result  of the 
mistake and shes been put back  in the position  she was in before the mistake.  So Im 
satisfied NatWest has dealt fairly  with this complaint and done what  I would have expected it 
to do in these  circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs Hs point about  customers being charged for their mistakes and that she 
told NatWest about  the mistake.  But I make clear  to her that Im only dealing  with her 
complaint about  what happened and I cant fairly comment on what  may or may not happen  
if the roles were reversed.  I also think NatWest  has explained what happened  and that it 
didnt notice the mistake.
Overall Im satisfied that although NatWest made a mistake its dealt fairly with the complaint  
by apologising  and refunding the money. I dont think compensation is justified in this case 
for those  reasons.
Ref: DRN97460832my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9746083