K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lepus Marketing Limited  (Lepus)  failed  to update  him on the progress 
of his payment  protection insurance (PPI) claim. 
background
Mr W instructed  Lepus to deal with PPI claims on his behalf  in 2016. Mr Ws complaint 
relates to a claim regarding Lender M. 
In August  2016  Lender M told Lepus  that they didnt think  Mr Ws PPI policy had been  
mis-sold, and so they wouldnt be awarding any compensation. Lepus  sent Mr W documents  
to send his complaint to Financial Ombudsman Service for consideration. Mr W completed 
and returned these, and Lepus sent them to Financial Ombudsman Service.  In September  
2016 Lepus received an email from Financial Ombudsman Service  acknowledging the 
documents. 
In January 2017 and May 2017 Lepus  sent Mr W an update  by text message saying that his 
complaint was still with the Financial Ombudsman  Service. 
On 12 January 2018 a case note was added to Mr Ws claim file for Lender M saying this 
should have been actioned as a Financial Ombudsman service reject. Lepus  has since 
explained that the claim was incorrectly removed from their system  at this time, so no further 
work was done  on the claim.   
In August  2018  Mr W contacted Lepus for an update, and was told that his claim had been 
rejected by the Financial Ombudsman  Service. Mr W was upset by this update as he thought  
that his claim was still being  considered  by Financial Ombudsman Service. Lepus  told Mr W 
that they would try and get a copy of the rejection letter  from Financial Ombudsman  Service, 
and this may take about four weeks. 
Mr W contacted  the Financial Ombudsman  Service  directly  and was told that it had asked 
Lepus for signed documents for his claim in 2016,  and because  this evidence wasnt sent, 
the claim didnt progress. 
Mr W complained  to Lepus about  them  failing  to contact him about the Financial  
Ombudsman Services request in 2016,  and for not providing him with a clear  explanation 
about what had happened. Lepus  said that the claim was closed down incorrectly  in January  
2018, and apologised for this mistake. Lepus  also told Mr W that they had contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  but because of the amount of time that had passed, it 
wouldnt look at the case again. Lepus  advised Mr W to contact  the Financial Ombudsman 
Service himself  and explain Lepus error,  to try and have the case  re-opened. Lepus offered  
£100 in recognition of the upset caused  to Mr W.
Mr W was unhappy with Lepus response. He contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service 
directly and his claim was looked at. Mr W rejected the £100 offered and requested  £500  to 
compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience caused by Lepus handling of his claim.  
Mr W brought his complaint about  Lepus  to the Legal Ombudsman. This complaint  was 
originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman,  but was transferred to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service)  as part of the change in the 
regulation of claims management  companies. 
Ref: DRN96543522The investigator found that Lepus had made a mistake in their handling of Mr Ws claim,  by 
closing it down when  it shouldve been  progressed through Lepus  process.  The investigator 
also recognised  the steps Mr W had to take to put things right.  The investigator said that 
Lepus should pay £150 in compensation to Mr W. 
Lepus accepted the investigators findings but Mr W remained unhappy, saying that Lepus 
failed to do anything  with his claim in 2016  when Financial Ombudsman  Service  contacted 
them. He was also unhappy that they didnt clearly explain  what had happened with his 
claim. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved, its been passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr W. Having reviewed the case,  I agree  with the investigators findings, 
and I wont be recommending further  compensation  for this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed  that Lepus made  an error on the case. The dispute between  Mr W and 
Lepus now relates to the award  of compensation that should  be paid in recognition of what 
went wrong. 
I understand Mr Ws position, in that if he hadnt  had contacted Lepus in August  2018, he 
may not have had the opportunity to contact the Financial Ombudsman Service and have  his 
claim looked at. 
Ive considered Mr Ws comments  about the lack of updates from September  2016 when 
Lepus failed to tell him about  the Financial Ombudsman Services request for signed 
documents. Mr W has confirmed that he did receive  a text message update in January 2017  
informing him that his claim could take up to 24 months. I accept that at the time this update 
was sent, the Financial  Ombudsman Service was likely still waiting for documents to be sent. 
But I also think that by receiving this text, Mr Ws expectations had been managed on how 
long it may be before  he receives further  contact from Lepus  about his claim.  I think  it was 
reasonable for Mr W to believe that he may not hear from Lepus for another  24 months. 
Because of this, I dont think its fair to award compensation for the lack of contact from 
January 2017.  I think Lepus had managed Mr Ws expectations on how long his claim may 
take, so it was reasonable for him not to hear any updates during that time. 
Ive also considered what impact Lepuss  error  had on the timescales of the claim. Its fair to 
say that theres  a good chance  that if Lepus  had told Mr W sooner about  the Financial 
Ombudsman Services request for signed  documents, he wouldve returned  these  in good 
time to allow  it to deal with his claim promptly. But what  I cant  say on balance is whether the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  would have dealt with the claim as quickly  as Mr W believes 
wouldve been the case. The reason for this is because the evidence  suggests that the 
process with the Financial  Ombudsman Service could take up to 24 months, and sometimes 
longer. So whilst I accept  Lepus shouldve contacted Mr W sooner to get the required signed 
documents in time to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I cant  say this wouldve made a 
difference to the timescales  in which Mr Ws claim was reviewed, and concluded. Theres  a 
strong likelihood that the claim may still have  taken several months, if not years,  to conclude.  
Ive considered what happened with Mr Ws claim once he contacted  Lepus  in August 2018. 
I think Lepus couldve done a lot more  to explain to him what had happened with his claim. I 
Ref: DRN96543523have reviewed the emails  sent to Mr W from August 2018 to January 2019, and I can 
understand how Mr W may have been frustrated by Lepus lack of clear  and timely 
responses about why his claim hadnt  progressed. 
Ive seen that Mr W first contacted Lepus in August 2018 to ask for an update. At this time 
he was told that his claim had been  rejected. I think it wouldve caused  Mr W upset and 
frustration in being told that his claim was closed at this time. Although the case  notes record 
that Mr W was told he would  hear back in about 4 weeks with an explanation of what  had 
gone wrong, I havent seen any evidence to say that this happened.  
On 19 November 2018 Lepus  emailed  Mr W and explained that an acknowledgement  of the 
claim was received by the Financial Ombudsman  Service on 26 September 2016. I think 
Lepus shouldve  explained to Mr W following his phone call in August  2018 that the claim 
had been incorrectly  closed on their system, and that Lepus had failed to contact  Mr W to 
get his signature  on time. I think this explanation wouldve gone some  way in reassuring  him 
that a mistake had been made,  but he could still try and contact the Financial Ombudsman 
Service himself  to put things right. 
Ive seen that Mr W was told in a later email that Lepus had tried to re-open the claim with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. I can see how the email to Mr W may have come across 
as misleading, as it does  suggest that the attempt to contact the Financial Ombudsman  
Service was made after the case was closed  as rejected. Although Lepus may have 
contacted the Financial  Ombudsman Service as they say, I can see how Mr W may have 
been frustrated  knowing that this was only done  after he complained to Lepus.  
I think the communication with Mr W about  what had gone wrong with the claim, and why 
(namely that Lepus didnt request the signed  documents when they should have), couldve 
been a lot better. Mr W first raised  concerns  in August 2018 but I cant  see that he was given 
any explanation  until November 2018,  and this was only after he wrote in to complain, 
despite previously  raising  his concerns  by phone.  
I dont think Lepuss  error  had a material impact on the updates given on, or timescales  of, 
Mr Ws claim. On balance, its likely  that the claim may well have taken up to two years 
before the Financial  Ombudsman Service looked  at it, as Mr W had been told in January 
2017. 
The investigator proposed £150  in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Mr W. 
When looking at whether £150  is fair, although I fully accept  Lepus  made  an error, I think 
£150 is fair compensation. In reaching this view Ive taken into consideration the shock  Mr W 
mustve felt in finding out his claim had been  rejected, and also the frustration following his 
dealings with Lepus. But Ive also considered that whilst Lepus made an error,  Mr W was still 
able to continue  the claim himself. So the impact of Lepus error didnt stop Mr Ws claim 
from being looked at by Financial Ombudsman  Service. Ive also taken on board that Mr W 
did a lot of the work himself which resulted in Financial Ombudsman Service looking at his 
claim, despite the long delays. It looks like Lepus have treated the contract  as terminated for 
the claim with Lender M, so wont pursue Mr W for fees if the claim is successful, and I think 
thats fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Ref: DRN96543524Lepus Marketing  Limited should pay Mr W £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset 
hes experienced. As the relationship between the parties has broken down Lepus  Marketing 
Limited should also terminate any existing contract  with Mr W for his claim concerning  
Lender M at no cost to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9654352