K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Hoist  Finance  UK Limited handled her account  and she 
disputes the amount they say she owes them.
background
Mrs R had an account with a bank which was overdrawn. In July 2016, the bank sold the 
debt to Hoist.
Mrs R has been repaying the debt on a monthly basis  since  then. Shes  been  assisted by a 
debt management  charity.
Mrs R contacted Hoist  several  times to try to establish the amount she owed. She says Hoist 
provided her with contradictory information  at different times. And she says their customer 
service was poor  for example, they failed  to call her back on a number of occasions when 
theyd promised to do so.
She says Hoist told her she still owed  them  money  just over £250  when the debt 
management charitys  records showed shes paid off the debt in full.
Mrs R complained to Hoist. They recognised their customer service had been poor at times 
and gave Mrs R £67 in compensation.  However,  they said their calculations of the amount  
still owed were correct.
Mrs R wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Hoist had done nothing wrong. She thought  the compensation Hoist  gave  Mrs R 
for poor customer service  was fair and reasonable. And she thought Mrs R did in fact owe 
the amount Hoist  said.
Mrs R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the customer service issues first. Hoist did promise  to call Mrs R back on a 
number of occasions and didnt do so. And they might have been clearer in the information 
they provided to Mrs R. 
I can understand Mrs Rs frustration with this. But I dont think the compensation already 
provided is unreasonable in all the circumstances and given the degree  of trouble and upset 
Mrs R was caused.
In terms of the amount currently owed, weve been  provided with records held by both Hoist 
and the debt management  charity. Weve  also got copies of letters  sent by the bank to Mrs R 
at the time her debt was transferred to Hoist.  
I think some  confusion may have arisen here because of the transfer of the debt and the 
timings of various monthly  payments. However, both Hoist and the debt management  charity  
agree on three key things.
Ref: DRN99146972First, they agree that in February 2016,  Mrs R owed over £1,700 to the bank. 
Their records also both show that in July 2016,  the debt stood at around  £1,500.
And their records both show that in total, since February 2016, Mrs R has paid off around 
£1,500.
In July and August, the bank wrote  to Mrs R to tell her the debt stood at around £1,500.
Mrs R says the debt management  charity  have told her shes  paid off the exact amount the 
bank said was owed  when the debt transferred  to Hoist in July 2016. 
Whilst thats true, unfortunately for Mrs R, that includes payments made before July 2016 
which reduced the debt from over £1,700to  around  £1,500.
When you add up the payments  made  between February and July 2016,  they come  to 
exactly the same amount  as the shortfall  Hoist are currently  saying Mrs R still owes   just 
over £250.
All of that makes it clear Mrs R does still owe in excess of £250 to Hoist. The debt 
management charitys  records have a total of just over £1,500  paid on a debt which originally  
amounted to over £1,700.
I understand confusion  can arise  when debts are transferred  and/or when considering whats 
owed at a specific  time and whether  payments were  made before or after that date.
However, the debt management charitys records confirm those held by Hoist  and the 
information provided to Mrs R by the bank. And I dont have any reason  to suggest theyre 
wrong to say Mrs R still owes then the £250+.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9914697