K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say HSBC  UK Bank plc mis-sold them  the PPI. 
background
HSBC first sold Mr and Mrs H a PPI policy when they took out their mortgage in 2001. At the 
time the policy was taken  out in joint names. However later that year,  it was amended  to 
cover Mr H only. Then in 2002 Mr and Mrs H completed a financial review with HSBC  and at 
this time the PPI policy was amended again,  with effect from Januray  2003. And then in 
2004 Mr and Mrs H had another  financial  review  of their circumstances and PPI was 
amended further.  
Upon HSBCs review of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, HSBC felt that it didnt have enough 
evidence available  to show  the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H in 2001. So it paid back 
the premiums Mr and Mrs H had paid from 2001  to January 2003. However, HSBC felt that 
the evidence available  from the financial review  in 2002, when it advised  Mr and Mrs H to 
amend their policy and increase the benefit amount, showed that its sales  advisor made a 
suitable recommendation to amend and continue with the policy. So it didnt refund them any 
premiums paid since the amendments made in 2002  went  live in January 2003.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
HSBC has upheld the initial sale of the policy in 2001 and made an offer to refund all the 
premiums paid from 2001 till January 2003, and I think this is fair. So Ive considered  what  
happened when  Mr and Mrs H had a financial review in 2002  and were advised to continue  
with their PPI policy, with a higher benefit  amount.   
At this time, Mr and Mrs H say they werent  given an option to decline the PPI as the advisor 
presented it to them as part of the application  process. But as this review  took place more  
than 18 years ago, its difficult to rely on what Mr and Mrs H have said alone  to say 
something untoward happened. 
HSBC advised  Mr and Mrs H to keep and amend their policy, so I think  its likely it told them 
they should have the policy, but thats  different from saying  they have to have  the policy. And 
from the notes Ive seen  from the meeting, it looks like Mr and Mrs H chose to keep PPI 
cover as they didnt  have  any other  means to protect their mortgage payments if Mr H was 
suddenly unable to work. 
Ref: DRN91291772So without any persuasive evidence to the contrary,  I think its more likely than not that 
HSBC made  it clear Mr and Mrs H didnt have to have  the PPI, and they chose to continue 
with their PPI policy  although  I can understand if they cant remember  this now. 
HSBC recommended Mr and Mrs H to continue with the PPI in Mr Hs name only, so it had 
to check that the policy was right for them   and based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances from 2002, I think that it was. For example Mr H wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that Mr H was entitled  to some sick pay at the time, which they 
couldve used to cover  their repayments. However, upon a successful  claim the PPI 
wouldve covered  their repayments  for up to 12 months, and it wouldve paid out in addition 
to Mr Hs sick pay, so this wouldve been free to use for other expenses. Ive also seen  that 
in the financial  review Mr and Mrs H said they didnt know how they would  cover  the 
repayments if Mr H wasnt able to work   so I think this cover  would have been suitable for 
them. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive considered what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances when they amended  the 
policy again in 2004. From  what  Ive seen I think they decided  they wanted  to keep the policy  
and I havent seen anything which makes me think that it wasnt  suitable  for them  in 2004. 
And even  though I think the information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H at the time couldve been  
clearer, I still dont think better information about the policy  wouldve made a difference  to 
their decision  to keep  the policy in 2004  either. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But 
HSBC has already paid back  the premiums paid from 2001  to 2003 and HSBC  will pay back  
some of the cost of the PPI from 2003  onwards because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because HSBC didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
Ref: DRN91291773*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
The offer made by HSBC to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs H paid from 2001 to January 
2003 is fair. I understand it has already paid this. But I dont think the PPI policy was mis-
sold in 2002, so HSBC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI after the policy 
amendments took effect  in January  2003.  But HSBC UK Bank  plc does have to pay back to 
Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI 
premiums paid after January 2003. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9129177