K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) caused unnecessary damage to 
tiling in his bathroom when he called on it under his home emergency insurance policy to 
repair a leak.
background
Mr C had a home emergency policy with BGI. When he had a leak in his bathroom,  he called 
on BGI who arranged for a plumber to attend.  The bathroom wall was tiled with large tiles 
measuring 18 inches by 13  inches. The plumber told Mr C that in order to get access to 
the leak he would need to break the tiles. Mr C agreed, if that was what  he needed to do. 
So the plumber  proceeded to smash a hole in the tiled wall. 
Mr C was left with a large hole in his tiled bathroom  wall. It was suggested to him that the 
plumber could have  cut round the grouting surrounding the tiles and lifted  the tiles out so 
they could be replaced after the repair. Mr C says the plumbers response to this was that 
would have taken  ages.
Mr C said the leak was dripping, not a flood. So the plumber had time to consider and 
explain to Mr C what options there were to gain access to the leak with the minimum risk of 
damage to the tiles. By failing  to do this he had acted unprofessionally.
Mr C has since  found that the tiles have  been discontinued and cant be replaced. So he 
thought he would have to retile the whole bathroom.  He said BGI should meet  the cost of 
this.
BGI said the plumber needed to get access through the wall to the source of the leak.  He 
explained that he needed to break  the tiles to do this and Mr C gave his permission. Under 
the policy terms its obligation was to make  good  the hole and leave a level surface.  So it 
offered £150 in settlement  of Mr Cs claim.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
the policy included  cover for up to £1,000 (including VAT) for Getting access  and making 
good which was defined in the policy as:
getting to your boiler, appliance  or system, to fix or service  it and then repairing any damage 
we may cause in getting access to your boiler, appliance or system by replacing items such 
as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling  in holes we have made and 
leaving a level surface  but we wont replace or restore the original surface coverings, for 
examples, tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or plants.
So she thought what BGI was offering  was in accordance with the policy terms. However 
she also had to consider how clearly  BGI had explained the limitations of the policy  before 
Mr C agreed to the plumber smashing his tiles. It didnt  seem the plumber had pointed  out 
BGI wouldnt replace  the tiles after the repair.
She accepted that different tools might have been required to lift the tiles, and there  was no 
guarantee that they wouldnt have been  damaged in the process. From what Mr C said, the 
leak wasnt an emergency. So the plumber should  have made Mr C fully aware of his options  
and what to expect.  Mr C could then have considered his options and decided whether  he 
wanted to have the tiles removed himself.
Ref: DRN99251672The result was that in failing  to make him aware of his options, and that BGI wouldnt replace 
the tiles, she didnt think BGI and its plumber had treated Mr C fairly. She recommended  that 
BGI:
pay to replace the tiles that had been damaged; or
if this wasnt possible because they had been discontinued, pay 50% of the cost of 
replacing all the tiles on the wall where  the plumber had smashed the tiles.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He felt replacing the tiles on one wall 
with tiles that were  different from the other  walls wasnt a reasonable solution.  As an 
alternative he suggested BGI pay for lifting some  tiles from behind the bath to replace the 
damaged ones, and replacing the bath with a boxed in design.
He then suggested a compromise. He had had a wooden board prepared  of the same 
dimensions as the broken tiles, and a vinyl photograph  print of the tiles attached to that, at a 
total cost of £275. He suggested BGI make good  the hole with plasterboard  leaving a level 
surface (as it had originally offered to do) and pay him the £275 cost of the board  and vinyl 
photo.
BGI responded to say, in summary, that it didnt accept the investigators recommendation or 
Mr Cs suggested compromise. In order to repair the leak Mr C had reported, the plumber 
had to gain access  by removing the tiles in the bathroom. Mr C gave permission to break 
into the cavity. 
BGI had offered to arrange a plasterboard repair of the hole,  or to pay a cash  settlement of 
£150, which it thought was fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the photos Ive seen of the bathroom,  which is fully tiled with large tiles, I think it would 
have been obvious to the plumber that breaking  tiles to get access  to the cavity  behind 
would be likely to leave  Mr C with a problem if replacement  tiles were no longer obtainable. 
And he should have known  that that BGI wouldnt be prepared  to deal with replacing  tiles.
The plumber did get Mr Cs verbal consent  before starting. But like the investigator,  I think  he 
had a duty to discuss  the potential risks, and explore  options, more fully with Mr C.
Its possible Mr C would  still have told the plumber to go ahead, or that an attempt  to remove 
the tiles without breaking them, would  have been unsuccessful.  But Mr C would then have 
made an informed decision.  As it was, I dont think the plumber gave him the information to 
do this.
Mr C has suggested that BGI arrange a plasterboard repair of the hole, as it has offered, and 
pay the £275 cost of the wooden board and vinyl photo he has had made.  I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Ref: DRN99251673My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance  Limited 
to:
1.arrange a plasterboard repair of the hole the plumber  made  so as to leave a level 
surface; and
2.pay Mr C the £275  cost of the wooden board and vinyl photo he has had made to 
cover the damaged  area.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9925167