K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he and the late Mrs W were given by an appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited to re-mortgage.  
Specifically, he complains they were advised to re-mortgage despite  knowing they would 
incur an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) with their existing lender by doing  so. Mr W says 
they should have been advised to wait until the ERC period was over before re-mortgaging  
to avoid unnecessary  costs.
A third party  representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mr W.
background
In October  2008, Mr W and his late wife re-mortgaged after receiving advice  from L&G. In 
doing so, they incurred  an ERC of around  £10,000  with their existing mortgage lender. The 
paperwork from the time suggests that an ERC was payable on the existing mortgage until 
30 November 2009. The re-mortgage was intended  to consolidate around £80,000 worth of 
unsecured debts, as well as Mr Ws existing mortgage of £345,000. 
Following the advice from L&G, they borrowed £450,000 (excluding fees) over a term of 18 
years with a new lender.  £130,000 was borrowed  on an interest-only  basis  and the 
remaining was on repayment.
In 2017, Mr W complained to L&G through his representative, about the advice L&G gave in 
2008. L&G didnt  uphold the complaint. They said the evidence from the time of the advice 
shows that Mr W and the late Mrs W were  spending significantly more each month than they 
were earning  and needed to reduce their outgoings. They  had around 13 months left before 
the ERC  period would expire  when theyd be able to re-mortgage without incurring a charge.
L&G said the adviser recommended a new mortgage with an interest rate that tracked the 
base rate plus 1.39%. In the Mortgage  Record of Suitability document signed by Mr W and 
the late Mrs W, the adviser made them aware of the ERC and the fact they could have 
waited to avoid  the charge. They concluded  that Mr W and the late Mrs W wanted to reduce 
their outgoings immediately, and so they dont believe they were in a position to wait for over 
a year to re-mortgage to avoid the ERC.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service  and our investigator looked into things. He said 
the advice L&G gave in 2008  was not unsuitable,  as there was a clear  need to bring Mr Ws 
monthly outgoings down in order to manage his lifestyle  needs. L&G made  him aware of the 
ERC and he chose to proceed on that basis. He didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr W disagreed  so the complaints been passed  to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint Ive considered  Mr Ws specific complaint point about the 
timing of the re-mortgage  and that he feels he should have been advised  to wait until the 
Ref: DRN96330782ERC no longer  applied,  but Ive also considered the overall suitability of the advice L&G 
gave and whether  this met Mr W and the late Mrs Ws needs at the time.
When Mr W and the late Mrs W met with L&G in 2008, the paperwork shows  that they were 
spending around £6,400  per month on existing debt and living  costs,  and their net income  
was £5,797 per month. So its clear that their existing arrangements  were  not sustainable,  
and the point of sale documents show that it was Mr Ws priority to bring down their monthly 
outgoings. Given the monthly  deficit Mr W was consistently facing at the time of the advice, 
Im persuaded that in order to improve his situation, something needed to change  as soon as 
possible, and certainly before December 2009 when the ERC period would have expired.
L&G made Mr W and the late Mrs W aware  of the ERC and the fact this would need to be 
paid if they proceeded with the new mortgage.  So Im satisfied if Mr W was concerned about 
this at the time he could have chosen not to proceed  and considered any other  options  he 
may have  had available. But I consider it likely based on everything Ive seen,  that Mr W was 
prepared to pay the charge, adding this to his new mortgage, in order  to put him in a position  
where he could  meet  his monthly commitments and have a disposable income that he could 
use to meet  his lifestyle needs.
So considering the immediate need for Mr Ws monthly outgoings to reduce, and the fact his 
preference seemed to be that the benefit of this outweighed the longer term costs, Im 
satisfied it was suitable for L&G to advise Mr W to re-mortgage when he did.
In order to ensure  the monthly payments remained affordable  for Mr W and the late Mrs W, 
L&G did advise they extend the term of their existing mortgage.  Mr W asked for this to be 
extended further so their new mortgage ended up being five years longer than the old one 
was. And whilst this did take them slightly beyond their intended  retirement age, Mr W had 
sufficient pension provisions in place so that it wouldnt  be a problem. So Im satisfied L&G 
advised them to take a mortgage that was affordable for them based on what was known 
about their circumstances.
L&G advised  Mr W and the late Mrs W to take out a mortgage with a tracker rate for three  
years, which  at the time was lower than the standard variable rate they were  due to revert to 
when their existing  deal ended. I appreciate Mr W says that he could have taken further  
borrowing with his existing lender  rather than re-mortgage. This would have  saved him 
having to pay the ERC.  But theres  no guarantee that his existing lender would have lent him 
the funds he needed to clear his existing debts. And the notes show  that Mr W said at the 
time the existing lender wouldnt offer them a new deal, so Im not persuaded the advice 
L&G gave to re-mortgage was unsuitable on that basis either. 
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9633078