K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that, in respect of their holiday home insurance claim for accidental 
damage to a carpet, Society of Lloyds wont pay half the cost of matching carpet  in the 
bedroom. 
background
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs L made a claim to Lloyds in respect of damage to a carpet in their 
holiday home. A tenant had spilled red wine on it. They couldnt clean the stain  out of the 
carpet, so Lloyds agreed to pay for the cost of a new carpet.  It would only pay for the cost of 
the carpet in the lounge and hall as this was a continuous piece of carpet. It wouldnt pay 
towards the bedroom carpet as this was separated by a doorbar. It explained that under the 
terms of the policy  it wouldnt pay for items that were  part of a set when the loss or damage 
is restricted to a clearly identifiable  area or to a specific  part. 
Lloyds did however pay them £100 compensation for some aspects of the claims handling 
concerning whether it would pay for the fitting.  Mr and Mrs L had opted to have the carpet 
replaced with laminate  flooring, to avoid the same  problem happening again.  Lloyds  clarified 
that it would  pay the equivalent cost of a carpet in the hall and lounge and its fitting.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint. He didnt think  that 
under the terms  of the policy the bedroom  carpet was covered as a part of a matching set.
Mr and Mrs L objected to this, they said it was standard practice  for the insurer to pay 50% 
of such a claim.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think theres some confusion in this case as to whether the carpet  in the bedroom was part 
of a matching  set. The term in the policy says:
We will not pay the cost of replacing  or repairing  any undamaged parts of the buildings
which form part of a pair, set, suite or part of a common design or function  when the loss or
damage is restricted to a clearly identifiable  area or to a specific  part
We look at every case on its merits to see whether applying  such an exclusion is fair and 
reasonable. In some  cases where items are clearly part of a set and the value, quality or 
look of the set would be affected  if only the undamaged part was replaced, we may consider 
it fair for the insurer to pay towards replacement of the undamaged parts  of a set. But I dont 
think that applies here. The carpet through the hall and lounge was one piece  of carpet.  But 
the bedroom carpet I think can clearly be regarded as separate as it was a separate  piece of 
carpet in another room with a doorbar in between. So whether  or not it can be regarded  as a 
part of the set, I dont think  it reasonable for 50% of the cost of the carpet  to be paid.
I should make two further points here.  Firstly, Mr and Mrs L opted  to have the carpet  
replaced by laminate. I dont know if they also had the bedroom carpet replaced by laminate 
Ref: DRN93074382  the estimate  they have produced is for the hall and lounge  only.  But I would have thought  
that it would  look perfectly  alright  to have a carpet  in the bedroom and laminate elsewhere.
Secondly Mrs L said she had found  the identical carpet was available.  To clarify, in respect 
of both this and the laminate flooring, the 50% approach  is only likely to be available if the 
set cant be matched. If the identical carpet  was available or the rest of the flooring excluding 
the undamaged  bedroom  carpet was going  to be replaced by laminate then there is no loss 
of match. So it wouldnt be necessary to remove the undamaged carpet.
So I dont  think its reasonable in this case to expect Lloyds to contribute  towards the 
undamaged carpet.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9307438