K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as first direct) have unfairly  recorded  a 
late payment marker on his credit file. To put things  right he wants them  to remove it.
background
Mr M obtained copies of his credit  file and saw that first direct  had recorded a late payment 
marker in September 2018.  He contacted  them to ask why  and they told him that it was 
because a direct debit payment due to leave  his account on 1 August 2018 had been 
returned unpaid.
Mr M complained to first direct. He said that money was transferred  to his account  on the 
day the payment  was due. So he doesnt think its his fault the payment wasnt  made. He 
asked first direct to remove the late payment marker  from his credit file.
first direct responded to his complaint and said that they couldnt remove the marker  as it 
was factually correct.  
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome, so he brought  his complaint to our service. He says 
that the marker on his credit file has made it harder for him to make financial applications, 
and this has caused him distress. Hes explained  that he suffers from anxiety  and 
depression, and the situation has negatively impacted his mental health.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that first direct had done anything  wrong.  They said that they had 
reversed Mr Ms direct  debit correctly, and had acted  as theyd expect by ensuring his credit 
file contained  an accurate  record  of his account.  
Mr M disagrees. He says he didnt receive  any notification from first direct  that his account 
had gone overdrawn  prior to the direct debit  being due, and he doesnt think this was fair. 
Hes also pointed out that funds were applied  to his account within 24 hours, so he doesnt 
think the direct debit should  have been reversed. And hes told us he wasnt  notified when 
the late payment  marker was applied.
The case  has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr M will be disappointed, but I 
wont be asking first direct to amend his credit  file. Ill explain why.
I appreciate this is a frustrating situation  for Mr M. Hes explained that the late payment was 
for a new direct debit,  and he wasnt certain which day it was due to leave  his account. But 
when he found  out he arranged for funds to be transferred  to his account to cover it.
first direct have confirmed that funds were paid into Mr Ms account on the day the direct  
debit was due to go out. But theyve  also shown us evidence that these were not received 
until 20:08. The cut-off time by which funds needed  to be in the account for them to process 
payment instructions for that day was 15:30. And I can see that Mr Ms transaction was 
reversed at 15:56, after this cut-off had passed. So Im satisfied that first direct followed their 
process correctly when they did this.
Ref: DRN95553032Mr M has told us that he wasnt aware  of this cut-off time, but I can see it is clearly  stated in 
the payment timescales section of the terms and conditions for his account.  The terms and 
conditions also explain that any funds received after this time are treated as if they were 
received on the next working day. So Im satisfied first direct had done what  Id expect to 
notify him of this.
Mr M says that he didnt receive  a notification from first direct  that his account was 
overdrawn and the payment might not be made. first direct have shown us evidence  that 
they sent him a text message on the morning of 1 August  2018  telling him that payments  
may not be made  unless there was enough money  available in his account by 15:30.  Mr M 
has explained that he didnt receive it. And hes told us he had made  first direct aware he 
was having trouble with his mobile phone before this happened.  
I sympathise with Mr Ms situation, but I dont think  it would be fair to hold first direct 
responsible for the fact he didnt receive their message.  They tried to notify  him using  the 
correct contact details  they had for him on file. Theyve told us Mr M hadnt given them an 
alternative mobile phone  number  to contact him on. And their terms and conditions  explain 
that they will send  a text message to a UK mobile  number if there isnt enough  money in a 
current account to make payments due that day. So I dont think its unfair that they didnt 
also try to contact him another way. Its not my role to tell first direct what their process 
should be  that is the role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority. And they 
followed their process  correctly here. 
Mr M is upset that first direct didnt make his payment anyway. Hes referred to the fact the 
funds were paid into his account  within 24 hours of the payment being due. I appreciate he 
feels that a 24 hour grace period should  be applicable here. But this is not mentioned 
anywhere in first directs  terms  and conditions. So this isnt part of his agreement with first 
direct. It would be unfair for me to say they should have  granted  him this  and I dont see 
how they could  have done so. They would have had no way of knowing, when they reversed 
the payment at 15:56, that Mr Ms account would shortly receive funds.
Mr M says that there have been  other occasions  where he hasnt  had enough funds in his 
account to cover payments, but first direct have made  them anyway, and havent applied any 
late payment markers to his credit file. I can see that in their terms and conditions first direct 
refer to unarranged overdrafts. They say that if a customer doesnt have enough money in 
an account when  they take a payment out of it, this may cause them to use an unarranged 
overdraft. But they do not guarantee anywhere  that they will agree an unarranged  overdraft.  
So I cant say it is unreasonable that they didnt grant Mr M one here to prevent his payment 
being missed. It was Mr Ms responsibility  to ensure that there were sufficient funds in his 
account to be able to make  the payment.
Mr M has told us that he didnt receive  any notification  from first direct  that they were  
applying a late payment marker  to his credit  file. He feels this is a further  reason as to why 
first direct shouldnt have applied it. But Ive already outlined why I feel the late payment 
marker is accurate  and was correctly applied to his credit file. And first direct  have  shown us 
that they followed their usual process  and sent Mr M a letter  to tell him about  it. 
I appreciate Mr M has provided evidence  of the problems hes had receiving  mail.  And hes 
told us he made first direct  aware of this. But I cant fairly hold first direct responsible for any 
problems with the postal service,  as this isnt their responsibility. And the fact he didnt get 
their letter doesnt  mean  its unfair the marker  was applied.
Ref: DRN95553033I understand first direct applied a bank charge to Mr Ms account as a result of the late 
payment. He feels that this is sufficient, and that it wasnt necessary for them to record the 
late payment marker on his credit file as well. I appreciate  that its very important to him to 
have a good credit record, and that this marker  has caused him a great deal of stress. But as 
our adjudicator explained, banks have an obligation to maintain accurate records  about the 
way a customer has managed their account. This is because  other  lenders may rely on this 
information when  making decisions. So first direct wouldnt be fulfilling their responsibilities  if 
they were to remove the late payment  marker  from Mr Ms credit file. But Mr M can put a 
notice of correction  on his file to explain what happened here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019. 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9555303