K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly declined  a claim shes made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
Mrs M purchased a used  car from a main  dealer  in May 2016. She paid the deposit  using 
her credit card issued by Bank of Scotland. The car developed a fault with the brakes in 
August 2016 and the dealer took it in for repairs. Mrs M was provided with a courtesy  car 
whilst the car was being repaired. It took the dealer just over a month  to fix the problem, with 
the car returned  to Mrs M in October 2016.
Unhappy with the length of time it was taking to repair  her car, Mrs M notified  the dealer  by 
phone, and Bank of Scotland via its portal, that she wanted to reject the car. She notified the 
bank that she was exercising her right to reject  the car under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015, 
as the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality. She explained that she was making a 
like claim  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as she held the bank jointly 
and severally responsible with the motor dealer. She wanted  a full refund to put her back in 
the position she was in before she purchased the vehicle. She also asked Bank of Scotland  
to compensate her for other losses incurred whilst waiting  for the car to be repaired.
Bank of Scotland rejected her claim. It said there  had been no breach of contract by the 
dealer as it had repaired  the car. It acknowledged  there had been a delay but this did not 
constitute a breach of contract and was not covered  by section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.  It added that it was not offering compensation as this was not covered by section 
75. It did offer £50 compensation  for the upset caused by the level of service shed received 
from the bank  plus call costs.
Mrs M referred  the matter  to our service as she believed  Bank  of Scotland  was wrong to 
reject her claim. One of our investigators  looked into the complaint but agreed with the bank 
that there  had not been a breach of contract.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman  for a decision.
I issued my first provisional  decision  in October 2018. I found that the car had been of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale but that the appropriate remedy, repair  of the 
vehicle, has been  applied. I said that it followed that there was nothing  further  for Bank of 
Scotland to do. Mrs M has reminded me that she had to hire a van with a tow bar because of 
the amount of time it was taking for her car to be repaired.
I issued a second provisional decision in December 2018 addressing the issue of Mrs Ms 
losses arising from the unsatisfactory quality of the car. In that decision I explained why the 
costs incurred by Mrs M to overcome the loss of use of her vehicle and carry on as normal  
seemed to be reasonable and proportionate. I explained that I was minded to uphold  that 
part of her complaint,  and Bank of Scotland  should pay Mrs M the cost of the van hire, plus 
simple interest. 
Neither party replied  to my second  provisional decision. A copy of both provisional decisions 
is attached.
Ref: DRN92548582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any new evidence and/or arguments for me to consider, I 
partly uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive set out before.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mrs M £107 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of the van hire to the date of settlement for the hire costs. It should  
also pay £50 already offered (if it hasnt already done so) plus call costs. It need  do nothing 
more in respect of the vehicle as the repair was the appropriate remedy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92548583First provisional decision issued 26 October 2018
complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly declined a claim shes made under  section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
Mrs M purchased a used car from a main dealer in May 2016.  She paid the deposit using her credit 
card issued by Bank of Scotland. The car developed  a fault with the brakes in August 2016 and the 
dealer took it in for repairs. Mrs M was provided  with a courtesy car whilst the car was being  repaired.  
It took the dealer just over a month  to fix the problem, with the car returned  to Mrs M in October 2016.
Unhappy with the length of time it was taking to repair her car, Mrs M notified the dealer by phone, 
and Bank  of Scotland via its portal, that she wanted  to reject the car. She notified the bank that she 
was exercising her right to reject the car under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, as the vehicle  was not 
of satisfactory quality. She explained that she was making a like claim under  section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974 as she held the bank jointly  and severally responsible with the motor  
dealer. She wanted a full refund to put her back in the position she was in before  she purchased the 
vehicle. She also asked  Bank of Scotland to compensate  her for other losses incurred whilst  waiting 
for the car to be repaired.
Bank of Scotland  rejected her claim.  It said there had been no breach of contract  by the dealer as it 
had repaired the car. It acknowledged there had been a delay but this did not constitute a breach  of 
contract and was not covered by section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. It added that it was not 
offering compensation  as this was not covered by section 75. It did offer £50 compensation  for the 
upset caused by the level of service shed  received from the bank.
Mrs M referred the matter to our service as she believes Bank of Scotland  was wrong to reject her 
claim. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint but agreed with the bank that there had not 
been a breach of contract.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs M is entitled to make  a like claim  against Bank of Scotland for breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (dealer) because she paid the £1,000 deposit for the car using her 
credit card. So section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies here and Mrs M is able to ask the 
creditor (Bank  of Scotland) for a remedy if theres been a breach  of contract or misrepresentation.  Mrs 
M thinks there has been  a breach of contract because, she says, the car was not of satisfactory  
quality (contrary to the term implied into the contract by the Consumer Rights Act 2015). So I have to 
decide whether Bank of Scotland has handled her claim fairly.
Mrs M has referred to her right to reject the car under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This Act 
provides consumers  like Mrs M with a right to reject goods that are of unsatisfactory quality within  30 
days of them being delivered. After  the 30-day period, the Act only allows  for a price  reduction or a 
final right to reject goods  if:
there has already  been one repair or replacement and there is still a problem;
repair or replacement is impossible or disproportionate;  or
Ref: DRN92548584the consumer has asked for a repair or replacement  but the trader hasnt done  so in a 
reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer.
There is no dispute that the car developed a fault.  This means  I have to consider whether  or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at the time of sale. The car was almost ten years old, with 45,000 miles on the 
clock, when  Mrs M bought it. I would  expect a car of this age to have some wear and tear consistent  
with normal usage for its age and mileage, but it should still be free from significant issues  and 
reasonably durable when put up for sale by a main dealer. In this matter, the fault became  apparent 
when the brake warning  light came on, only three months after she purchased the car. There is, 
accordingly, a rebuttable presumption in the Act, in favour  of Mrs M, that the fault was present at the 
point of sale.  (After six months,  the burden of proof reverts as usual to the person making  the 
allegation, i.e. the consumer.)
Nevertheless, even accepting Mrs Ms point that there was a breach of contract because the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale, the remedy would be to give the lender (or dealer)  an 
opportunity to carry out one repair (or replacement) as the fault didnt present within the first 30 days 
of the car being delivered to her.
The Consumer Rights Act requires that the repair is carried out within  a reasonable time.  The Act 
does not specify what is reasonable but it does say that this is determined by the nature of the 
goods. Mrs M says that the garage took three attempts to fix the car. The dealer says that it took a 
number of attempts  for it to find the cause of the brake warning light coming on. Given  the 
circumstances, and that were dealing  with complex machinery here, I dont find that the one month it 
took to repair Mrs Ms car was unreasonable, particularly  as the dealer lent her a another  car to use 
whilst the repair was carried out.
I can see from the information provided  that the car wasnt covered  by the makers approved used  car 
programme: Mrs M was provided with an independent mechanical breakdown  insurance product. So 
its unlikely that it would have been  or expected to have  been  of the same quality as other vehicles 
that were available under  the dealers  approved used programme. This policy contributed to the costs 
of repairs arising during the first 12 months of ownership   and it was under  this policy that the dealer 
repaired Mrs Ms car.
So with all of the above in mind, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  needs to do anything more  here. 
And it follows Im not going  to tell Bank of Scotland to pay Mrs M compensation other than the £50 
already offered which, I believe, is still open for acceptance  (I should  be grateful if the bank would  
confirm this).
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M as the fault in the car, and the length  of time it took for the 
garage to repair it caused  her some inconvenience.  But I note that the car was repaired the day after 
she asked to reject it and she should now have full use of the vehicle.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not currently minded to uphold this complaint and will make  no 
award against Bank of Scotland plc save that it pay Mrs M the £50 already offered (if it hasnt already 
done so).
Ref: DRN92548585Mrs M can accept  the £50 by accepting my final decision (assuming the outcome doesnt change from 
this provisional  decision).  But she should note that accepting a final decision would mean it becomes  
legally binding  on both parties,  so she wouldnt  be able to take legal  action in relation  to the subject 
matter of this complaint. If she were to reject a final decision, it would  leave her free to take court 
action  but the £50 offer wouldnt be binding on the bank,  as an offer can be withdrawn until 
acceptance of it is communicated to the person who made it. It would then be a matter between  Mrs 
M and the bank as to whether the offer was still open.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92548586Second Provisional decision issued 11 December 2018
complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly declined a claim shes made under  section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
Mrs M purchased a used car from a main dealer in May 2016.  She paid the deposit using her credit 
card issued by Bank of Scotland. The car developed  a fault with the brakes in August 2016 and the 
dealer took it in for repairs. Mrs M was provided  with a courtesy car whilst the car was being  repaired.  
It took the dealer just over a month  to fix the problem, with the car returned  to Mrs M in October 2016.
Unhappy with the length of time it was taking to repair her car, Mrs M notified the dealer by phone, 
and Bank  of Scotland via its portal, that she wanted  to reject the car. She notified the bank that she 
was exercising her right to reject the car under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, as the vehicle  was not 
of satisfactory quality. She explained that she was making a like claim under  section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974 as she held the bank jointly  and severally responsible with the motor  
dealer. She wanted a full refund to put her back in the position she was in before  she purchased the 
vehicle. She also asked  Bank of Scotland to compensate  her for other losses incurred whilst  waiting 
for the car to be repaired.
Bank of Scotland  rejected her claim.  It said there had been no breach of contract  by the dealer as it 
had repaired the car. It acknowledged there had been a delay but this did not constitute a breach  of 
contract and was not covered by section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. It added that it was not 
offering compensation  as this was not covered by section 75. It did offer £50 compensation  for the 
upset caused by the level of service shed  received from the bank   plus call costs.
Mrs M referred the matter to our service as she believes Bank of Scotland  was wrong to reject her 
claim. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint but agreed with the bank that there had not 
been a breach of contract.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued my first provisional decision in October 2018. I found that the car had been of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of sale but that the appropriate  remedy,  repair of the vehicle, has been applied. I 
said that it followed  that there was nothing further for Bank of Scotland to do. Mrs M has reminded me 
that she had to hire a van with a tow bar because of the amount of time it was taking  for her car to be 
repaired.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed that Mrs M is entitled  to make a like claim against Bank of Scotland  for breach  of contract  
or misrepresentation by the supplier (dealer)  because she paid the £1,000 deposit for the car using 
her credit card. So section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  applies here and Mrs M is able to ask 
the creditor  (Bank  of Scotland) for a remedy if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
In my first provisional decision I agreed with Mrs M that there had been a breach of contract because 
the car was not of satisfactory quality (contrary  to the term implied  into the contract  by the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015).
It was, and remains, my view that there was a rebuttable presumption in the 2015 Act, in favour of 
Mrs M, that the fault was present at the point of sale. (After six months, the burden of proof reverts  as 
Ref: DRN92548587usual to the person making the allegation, i.e. the consumer.)  This was because the fault became  
apparent when the brake warning light came on only three  months after she purchased the car.
I also found  that the appropriate remedy was to give the lender (or dealer)  an opportunity to carry out 
one repair (or replacement) as the fault didnt present  within the first 30 days of the car being  
delivered to her, so there  wasnt an automatic  short-term  right to reject such  as that Mrs M sought  
from Bank of Scotland.  I also said that Bank of Scotland need only pay Mrs M the £50 compensation  
already offered.
In her response to my first provisional decision, Mrs M reminded me that she had incurred 
consequential losses. She said that I had not considered her request for distress and inconvenience,  
particularly the cost of the van hire and additional amount to compensate for the failings in its initial 
investigation.
I wrote  to Bank of Scotland inviting it to consider additional compensation. I asked Bank of Scotland  if 
it was prepared to:
offer Mrs M the £107  for the cost of the van hire. It is clear that she had purchased a two litre 
estate vehicle and had it fitted  it with a tow bar. I think its fair to accept that she did this for 
the equestrian  events  she attends with her daughter. We also have evidence that she did hire 
the van when the faulty car was in for repair. And I have no reason to doubt her statement 
that the dealer had offered  to cover this cost. After all, it had only provided  her with a Toyota 
Aygo as a courtesy car  clearly not suitable for towing. I am inclined to decide that payment 
of £107 for the van hire would be fair compensation  for the consequential  loss. I am not 
inclined to extend this to the loss of touring caravan  holidays.  This would be in addition  to the 
£50 plus call costs originally offered.
Bank of Scotland  replied by telephone.  It told one of our investigators it didnt think  it should have to 
pay consequential loss. Thats because it would  only have to pay this if there  was a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. It felt there was no breach  or misrepresentation.   It also didnt think  I had come 
to this conclusion in my provisional decision.
I disagree. I found that there had been  a breach  of contract. As I said in my provisional decision,  and 
repeated above, because the fault occurred  within the first six months,  I am satisfied the car was not 
of satisfactory quality (contrary to the term implied into all consumer contracts by the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015). And the bank has not contested the presumption that the fault was present at the 
time of sale.
Mrs M has a like claim against Bank of Scotland because she paid the deposit on her credit card.  And 
because there  was a breach of contract, Bank of Scotland is equally  liable for the remedy. I explained 
in my first provisional decision that the appropriate  remedy  in this case  was the repair of the car. I 
found that this had been  done in a reasonable  time. So theres  nothing  further for Bank  of Scotland  to 
do in this regard.
However, in very broad terms (given the complexity and scope of the topic), unliquidated damages for 
breach of contract  i.e. damages  not specified in the actual contract   can be awarded for all losses 
which (i) would not have  arisen but for the breach; (ii) were reasonably  foreseeable consequences of 
such a breach at the time of contracting; and (iii) are neither too remote  from the breach nor 
proximately caused  by any new intervening  act or any failure by the innocent party  to mitigate the 
loss. And historically, there are certain unrecoverable losses  even if directly  caused by the breach, 
such as distress and inconvenience for contracts that werent entered  into for pleasure or peace of 
mind (e.g. holidays or insurance,  etc).
It seems to me that both parties to this sales contract would reasonably have foreseen, at the point of 
sale, that a car of unsatisfactory quality would  probably  need repairing at some stage and therefore  
leave Mrs M with a loss of use/amenity that she would  have to mitigate. On the balance  of 
probabilities, the hire-van costs would not have been incurred but for the traders breach of contract. 
Ref: DRN92548588The breach was the dominant and effective  (i.e. proximate) cause of such losses  and theres no 
evidence of any new intervening act which breaks the chain of causation  or of any failure to mitigate.  
The costs incurred by Mrs M in order to overcome  the loss of her vehicle  and carry  on with her normal 
activities seem  reasonable and proportionate. I am satisfied, therefore, that theyre  a legitimate head 
of damage for such a breach  of this type of consumer contract.
The £50 for distress and inconvenience offered by the bank is not, in my judgment,  a head of damage 
for breach  of the car contract;  it is, rather, the sort of compensation that we routinely award  under  our 
statutory rules  when a regulated firm fails to carry out financial  services to the requisite conduct  of 
business standards. In other words, whilst there may be no right to damages for distress or 
inconvenience as a result of the breach of an ordinary sales contract  thats the subject of a section 75 
claim, there is still a right to such damages for breach of statutory  duty under  the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. And I am satisfied that the banks offer of £50 was for its banking services, not 
the subject matter  of the s.75 claim.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im now minded to uphold this complaint.  Bank of Scotland plc should  
pay Mrs M £107 plus 8% simple interest  from the date of the van hire to the date of settlement for the 
hire costs. It should also pay £50 already  offered  (if it hasnt already done so) plus call costs. It need 
do nothing more  in respect of the vehicle  as the repair  was the appropriate remedy.
Mrs M and Bank of Scotland plc should now let me have any other information they want  me to 
consider about the complaint.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9254858