K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Virgin Money  Plc allowed him to go over his credit  card limit. He 
incurred interest and charges as a result, and lost the cards promotional  rate. Mr M says this 
has had a negative  effect on his credit  score.
background
Mr M went over the limit on his credit card, and incurred interest and charges. He also lost 
the cards promotional rate. Mr M says this has affected his credit  score,  making it difficult  for 
him to arrange other borrowing. He thinks Virgin shouldnt have allowed him to go over his 
credit limit.
Virgin accepted  it couldve handled Mr Ms concerns better,  and paid £75 as a gesture of 
goodwill. It also refunded  the interest  and charges on Mr Ms account,  and waived interest  
for two months. But Virgin wasnt willing to reinstate  the cards promotional rate.
Our investigator thought Virgin had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly. He didnt find that 
Virgin was responsible for Mr M going  over his credit limit, and he was satisfied that the 
promotional rate was withdrawn in line with the account terms. 
Virgin had refunded charges and interest,  waived further interest and paid £75, which  the 
investigator thought  was fair.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  that the issues  Mr M had with his Virgin credit card were 
the only contributing  factor to his credit score.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded that Virgin was obliged to monitor  Mr Ms use of the 
credit card, to make sure he didnt go over the limit. It was for Mr M to keep within  the limit if 
he didnt want to incur interest  and charges.
The accounts terms say:
7.5 If we do not receive  the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement  
period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge  the current 
standard interest rate that applies to that transaction.
Default charges are also listed  in the information  supplied with Mr Ms statements. This 
includes a £9 fee for going over the credit limit, paying late or for each failed payment. 
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Virgin  withdrew the cards promotional rate in line
with the accounts terms and conditions.  It isnt willing to reinstate the rate, and Im not
persuaded that it needs to do so.
Ref: DRN96224102Im also satisfied that Virgin applied the relevant interest and charges in line with the account
terms. But the business has refunded the interest and charges to Mr M, and also waived 
interest for a further two months. I think that was fair and reasonable, as Virgin wasnt
obliged to do this.
Virgin also paid £75 to Mr M in recognition that its complaint  handling couldve been  better.  
Again, I think  that amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M says Virgins actions  have affected  his credit score. Hes provided screenshots that
show his secured and unsecured debt, and his score. 
From what  Ive seen, I think its unlikely that Mr Ms credit score  is the result of his Virgin
credit card issues  alone. Mr M has a high level of unsecured debt. I accept that he may have
kept up the repayments on what he owes, but the overall  amount  will nevertheless be
taken into account  by potential lenders.
In addition, as Virgin hasnt done anything  wrong in connection with Mr Ms credit card
account, it wouldnt be reasonable to find it responsible for any negative impact  on his credit
score.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Virgin is at fault on this occasion, so I wont be upholding the
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622410