K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the settlement they received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) when they made  a claim  on their travel insurance policy. 
background
In February 2019  Mrs C spent 5 days in hospital  whilst abroad. Mr and Mrs C made a claim 
under their travel insurance policy which was underwritten by IPA. 
As part of this claim they asked IPA to reimburse  £150 of expenses  under the Hospital Cash  
Benefit clause in its policy which says:
If we accept a claim under Section 2  Medical Emergency  and Repatriation  Service, we 
will pay you £30 for incidental  expenses  in the hospital (such as newspapers, television 
rental and visitor taxi journeys) for each continuous 24 hour period that you have to spend in 
hospital as an in-patient outside  the United Kingdom. Itemised receipts  must be kept as 
proof of costs incurred.
The most we will pay you per trip under this section is £500.
Mr and Mrs C provided IPA with receipts to support their claim. But IPA only agreed to 
reimburse around £50, not the full £150 they asked for. It said that the £30 for each 
continuous 24 hours is not a fixed benefit  that we pay for all the 5 days.  It is applied  as per 
the costs incurred during the five days. If you did not incur any cost on one of the days, we 
are unable to pay you this benefit.
Mr and Mrs C raised  a complaint with IPA about  this matter, and about the service theyd 
received during the course  of their claim. IPA agreed the service it had provided hadnt  been 
of the high standard it looks to deliver and that there  were  some delays returning calls to 
Mr and Mrs C. It paid them £250 compensation for any distress  and inconvenience caused 
by this. But said that their claim had been settled correctly.
Mr and Mrs C disagree.  They say the policy doesnt make reference to a daily maximum or 
the fact that amounts cannot be aggregated. They want IPA to pay the remaining expenses 
they are claiming  up to £150, plus a further  £100 to account for the trouble and 
inconvenience theyve  experienced. They have also asked for an assurance that IPA will 
revisit this policy clause in future and any previous claims  where  its been applied.
Our investigator considered the policy  wording  and listened to a phone call IPA had with 
Mr C where the hospital cash benefit was explained  to him. The investigator  didnt feel it was 
made clear to Mr C that IPA intended to cap the benefit in the way it says.  And 
recommended that IPA apply the term as interpreted by Mr and Mrs C, paying them  £150  in 
total for this element  of their claim, and a further £100  for the inconvenience  caused.
IPA didnt agree with these findings, so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN91620232I think it would be helpful for me to explain that we are an informal  dispute  resolution service. 
Its my role to look at individual situations and award  redress  where appropriate. I dont have  
the power to ask a business to change its policy wording. And Im not able to look at or 
comment on how its responded to other consumers.
When considering  this complaint Ive given regard to the policy  wording which reads:
3. Hospital  Cash Benefit
This section  provides details of the benefit  we will pay for a hospital in-patient stay outside  
the United Kingdom .
What you are covered  for:
If we accept a claim under Section 2  Medical Emergency  and Repatriation  Service, we 
will pay you £30 for incidental  expenses  in the hospital (such as newspapers, television 
rental and visitor taxi journeys) for each continuous 24 hour period that you have to spend in 
hospital as an in-patient outside  the United Kingdom. Itemised receipts  must be kept as 
proof of costs incurred.
The most we will pay you per trip under this section is £500.
What you are not covered for: 
a) any claim  where you cannot provide itemised  receipts; 
b) claims  for more than one round trip taxi journey per day.
Please also refer to the General Conditions and General Exclusions.
Ive also thought about the guidance  given  to insurers by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), and other relevant  industry guidelines. 
The FCA Handbook sets out a number  of Principles for Businesses, which  IPA must  follow, 
including: 
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) 8.1.1R says that an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
Mr and Mr C are trying to claim for three taxi journeys  Mr C made to visit Mrs C whilst she 
was in hospital for a 5 day period. (Mr C has explained he actually made  more  journeys, but 
did not obtain receipts for all of them). They feel that IPAs policy entitles them  to £30 
towards these expenses for each 24 hour period Mrs C was in hospital, which would  total 5 
payments of £30 (= £150). 
Ref: DRN91620233I can see the policy wording refers to visitor taxi journeys as an example of an expense that 
can be claimed under this section of the policy. However IPA has been  very clear that it does 
not consider the £30 limit to be a fixed benefit,  and that it can only be claimed for certain 
receipted costs incurred within a 24 hour period. It says any costs exceeding £30 in one 24 
hour period are not covered by its policy. And the £30 limit cannot be aggregated as Mr and 
Mrs C have suggested. 
I appreciate IPAs intention is to limit the expenses  that can be claimed under this section  of 
the policy as its said. But having listened to the way the hospital  benefit was described  to Mr 
C during a phone  call he had with IPA on 15 February 2019 I can understand why Mr and 
Mrs C feel theyre  entitled to claim a total of £150 here.
Mr C was told that there is often  a hospital  benefit so you get an amount for each day 
youre admitted  which is generally something considered  to offset  any sundry costs. The 
advisor went on to explain  that You can claim £30 for each 24 hours spent in hospital. Mr C 
said costs will be greater than that as taxis are expensive. The advisor  told him to keep the 
receipts and discuss it with the claims team when he and Mrs C arrived home. But that there 
is definitely £30 a day there, up to a maximum of £500. 
It wasnt explained on this call that Mr and Mrs C were  only entitled to claim the £30 per 24 
hours for expenses incurred within those 24 hours.  And I can understand why Mr C was left 
with the impression that the £30 limit operated  in the way he and Mrs C have suggested 
here- i.e. that it could be carried over the duration of Mrs Cs hospital stay. 
I also havent found that the policy wording clearly  contradicts the impression Mr C was 
given as to how the benefit operates. Whilst it refers to £30 for each continuous 24 hour 
period, it doesnt  explicitly  specify that the £30 of expenses  must have been incurred within  
the 24 hour period, or make any other  reference to aggregation or other  limits other than that 
the most  that can be claimed under this section  is £500 per trip.
As there was some ambiguity in the way the benefit was described to Mr C, which  I dont 
think is clarified by the policy wording, I agree with our investigator that in these individual  
circumstances it would  be fair and reasonable for the policy to be interpreted in Mr and 
Mrs Cs favour.  IPA should pay Mr and Mrs C the full £150 they are claiming under this 
section of its policy. It should also pay them an additional £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience theyve  experienced here trying  to resolve this issue.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right IPA should;
Pay Mr and Mrs C £150 to settle this part of their claim (minus any payment it has 
already made towards these expenses)
Pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9162023