K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 are executors of their late fathers estate. They  have complained about 
Brewin Dolphin Limited (Brewin) in this joint capacity,  but Mr M1 leads the complaint. Mr M1 
says Brewin failed to inform him about a change in his fathers  portfolios status, upon his 
passing; failed  to inform him about  a change in the charges related to the portfolio;  and failed 
to provide him with a Rates Card,  contrary to its terms and conditions. 
background
The complaint was prompted  by a charge incurred for the sale of stock in the portfolio in 
September 2018. Mr M1 says he was given  no prior notice of it and, had he received such  
notice, he would have  transferred the stock in specie  rather than incur the charge.
Brewin disputes the complaint. It says following the passing of Mr M1s father the previous 
terms/agreement for the portfolio ended and the portfolio moved  to a care  and 
maintenance (execution only) status, in which the executor could only instruct it to sell, 
transfer or materialise the investments in the portfolio, subject to its normal charges (in the 
relevant Rates Card). It referred  to provisions within its terms which set this out.  
Brewin accepts that a Rates Card was not issued to Mr M1. It argues  that even though a nil 
commission arrangement  previously applied to the portfolio Mr M1 was informed and aware  
that such would no longer  be the case under the care and maintenance status.  In addition, it 
says it displayed notable  goodwill by waiving its execution only fee of £250 for the quarter (at 
the time) and covering  the cost (£218.89)  of the probate valuation for his fathers  portfolio.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, he broadly agreed with Brewins  position  
(and reasons) and concluded  that the complaint  should not be upheld.  He referred to 
telephone call recording evidence   from July and September 2018  in which  Mr M1 was 
informed about  the portfolios movement to an execution only status  (and that the previous 
terms ceased to apply) and was then informed that a charge  would  apply to the sale of 
investments from the portfolio but no charge would apply to a transfer  of investments in 
specie. On this basis  the investigator considered that Mr M1 was properly informed  before 
he decided to have  the stock liquidated. He also noted Brewins goodwill gestures.
Mr M1 did not accept this outcome. He highlighted  Brewins failure to provide him with a 
Rates Card and he considered that the investigators reference to evidence  that he had been 
given an estimate of 1% for the sale charge  conflicted with the actual total charge of 1.4%.  
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He said the crux of the complaint 
was about Mr M1 not having prior notice of the charge, but evidence  shows that he did and 
the Rates Card point does  not alter this; he considered that the 0.4% difference between the 
estimated and actual  total charge was tolerable;  and he said he had also taken Brewins  
goodwill gestures into consideration.  The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator,  for broadly  similar reasons.
Mr M1s  claim  about his unawareness of the sale charge  prior to its application  appears 
to have been the crux of the complaint. The telephone calls mentioned by the investigator 
Ref: DRN95621962happened in the aftermath of his fathers  passing. In that context, it is possible that the 
relevant conversations   and their details   were not recalled  at the time he confirmed the 
complaint. For this reason, I do not question the sincerity of Mr M1s belief in his claim, but it 
is not supported  by available evidence  as explained by the investigator.  
Given the finding that Mr M1 was made aware of the change of status  for the portfolio, the 
ending of the nil commission arrangement  and the application of a charge for sales  (but no 
charge for transfers in specie), it follows that the complaint is not upheld. It is also 
noteworthy that the terms agreed with Mr M1s  father support Brewins  actions in changing 
the portfolios  service  status (and its charges related  status).
Brewin concedes that it did not issue Mr M1 with a Rates Card.  I consider that it ought 
reasonably to have  done  so, especially in the context  of the changes to the portfolios 
service and charges  related status; and given that charges for the portfolio appear to have 
been relatively new at the time,  because  of the previous  nil commission arrangement.  
However, I too have  taken  note of Brewins goodwill gestures and I consider that they 
sufficiently cater for its omission  in this respect.
The 1% charge rate appears  to have been  conveyed  to Mr M1 as an estimate . I understand 
Mr M1s  point that the actual charge in total was 40% higher (1.25% plus a £20 contract 
charge) but it is arguably inherent within an estimated charge that it might or might not be 
the same  as the actual charge that is applied. I have  not seen evidence that Brewin  sought  
to mislead Mr M1 in this respect and, given that he does not appear to have  recalled this 
estimate, he does not appear to have been  misled by it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr M and Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to accept or reject my 
decision before  24 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9562196