K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms H have  complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited 
unfairly increased the cost of their unemployment  insurance policies.
background
In 2016, Mr G and Ms H took out various insurance  policies with Royal  London. These 
policies included unemployment cover for both Mr G and Ms H, along with waiver  of 
premium benefit across all the policies  in the event  that either of them  was made 
involuntarily unemployed.
In 2017, Royal London wrote to Mr G and Ms H to explain it had made a mistake  in 
calculating the cost of the unemployment  cover  and unemployment waiver  of premium 
benefit with the result  that they were paying too little for their cover. While it wouldnt seek to 
recover the amount  by which  it had so far undercharged, it said that unfortunately the 
premium would have  to rise by an expected 44% at the next policy  anniversary date to 
reflect the true cost of the cover.
Mr G and Ms H complained to Royal London.  They said theyd been enticed into taking  out 
the cover  on the basis it was the most competitive in the marketplace.  They  considered the 
price rise to be unreasonable and said theyd  been  disadvantaged by Royal  Londons error.
Royal London apologised and offered £100  compensation. However, it explained that under 
the terms of the policy it was entitled to review  the premiums at each anniversary so it was 
satisfied it was acting  in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Mr G and Ms H were  unhappy at Royal Londons response and referred their complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  
Royal London had acted reasonably.
Mr G and Ms H didnt  accept the investigators findings. They said that they had chosen to 
take out the policies  with Royal London because  it had been marginally cheaper than its 
competitors. They said that they were promised  cover at a price which wouldnt significantly 
increase and which was designed  to run until retirement age. They said that the premiums 
were now uncompetitive and that changes in the marketplace meant policies  were  no longer 
available until retirement age but had a term of two to three  years  only. They therefore felt 
theyd been disadvantaged.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Royal London has explained that it made a mistake in the pricing of the policy  and as a 
result was charging significantly less than it should  have been  for the cover from the outset.  
This error didnt just affect  Mr G and Ms H; it affected all policyholders who had taken out 
Ref: DRN99752722this type of cover. I see no reason to dispute  Royal  Londons explanation. I have no grounds 
for supposing that it deliberately chose  to charge less at the outset and then increase the 
price.  
When it discovered its error, Royal London wrote to Mr G and Ms H to alert them.  It assured  
them it wouldnt seek to recover the amount  it had undercharged but explained the amount 
by which  it expected premiums to increase  at the next anniversary. It said it would write to 
confirm the actual increase six weeks before this was due to take effect.
The premiums for the unemployment cover and the unemployment waiver  of premium 
benefit, unlike the premiums  for the other  insurance policies which Mr G and Ms H took out, 
were not guaranteed. The policy schedule and policy  document make clear that they could 
instead be reviewed  at each anniversary of the policy start date. It said when reviewing the 
premiums it would take account of a range of factors including the cost of claims. Im 
satisfied Royal London was entitled to review the premium at the next anniversary  of Mr G 
and Ms Hs plan and to adjust it to reflect the true cost of the cover.
Mr G and Ms H say they were promised a policy at a price  which  wouldnt significantly 
increase. I disagree.  The policy document stated:  If you have reviewable premiums, they 
could change significantly.
Mr G and Ms H think theyve been disadvantaged  because of changes  in the marketplace. 
However, they chose  to take out policies with reviewable premiums so there was always  the 
risk that these would  significantly  increase in price.  If they had chosen a similar policy from 
another insurer there is no guarantee that they would  now have cheaper cover than that 
offered by Royal London. So I cant reasonably conclude that theyve  been  disadvantaged  
by Royal  Londons  error. On the contrary,  they have paid less for their cover over the past 
two years than the true commercial rate.  
It is unfortunate that Royal  London made its error.  However, since  it discovered this I think it 
has acted in a reasonable way. If Mr G and Ms H wish, they may cancel their unemployment 
cover without affecting their other insurance  policies. Royal  London has already  offered Mr G 
and Ms H £100 compensation. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9975272