K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Aldermore Bank Plc wont allow him to certify a Lasting  Power  of 
Attorney (LPA) document. Aldermore insists that a third party certifies the LPA. 
background
Mr V has a LPA which names  his son and wanted  to register  it with Aldermore. But it wont  
accept a donor certified copy. Its asked  for a third party, who isnt related to Mr V, to certify 
the LPA. 
Mr V complained and said Aldermores  request  wasnt in line with the law, which  says a 
donor can certify the LPA. Aldermore responded on 18 July 2018 but didnt  agree an error 
had been made. Aldermore  said it could  set its own requirements for certification  of an LPA. 
Mr Vs complaint was referred to our service and an adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator 
agreed that Aldermore  was entitled  to decide who can certify the LPA so didnt uphold Mr Vs 
complaint. As Mr V didnt accept the adjudicators view the complaints been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
Mr Vs son brings the complaint on his behalf. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the links to the government website provided. I agree  that they say a donor 
can certify their LPA. I need to decide  whether its fair for Aldermore to operate  differently. 
Aldermore says it wont accept an LPA thats  certified by the donor  or a relative in order  to 
protect its customers. I appreciate the government guidance says a donor can certify an LPA 
but that doesnt mean a business has to accept it. Businesses are generally  free to decide 
how to operate  and what steps to put in place to protect customers. In this case, Aldermores 
chosen not to allow  donors to certify their own LPAs and Im satisfied thats  a decision its 
entitled to take.  
Ive looked at the certification guidance  Aldermore sent Mr V. Whilst I understand his LPA 
should be certified by someone working in a profession from a specific  list, Im satisfied the 
request is reasonable. I note Aldermores offered to accept the original LPA and send it back 
to Mr V by recorded delivery so thats  another option  he can consider. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr V but Aldermore can decide how a customer  certifies their LPA. 
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9839819