K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a Platinum 
packaged bank  account.
They say they were advised  by the bank that the account would better meet  their needs  and 
that they would be treated favourably if they were  to apply for loans/overdrafts.
background
Mr and Mrs P held a Gold Service packaged  bank account which  was then upgraded to a 
Platinum packaged  bank account sometime prior to September  2001.  The account was later 
changed to a Club Platinum account in September 2014 and then changed to a Club Lloyds 
account in March 2018.
Lloyds agreed  to repay Mr and Mrs P the Gold  Service account  fees,  with interest.  But it 
didnt think that the Platinum  account had been mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and he didnt  think the Platinum account 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs P, but after giving this case  
a lot of thought, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.  I will explain my reasons why.
Mr and Mrs P say that they were told by Lloyds that the Platinum account was the best 
account for them and they felt pressured into taking  the advice they were given because  
they needed an overdraft/loan. However,  Mr and Mrs P already held a Gold Service  
packaged account and had been able to take out loans with that account. Therefore I think 
they agreed to the Platinum account knowing  they didnt have to have it to obtain  loans and 
overdrafts. 
The Platinum account offered a £250  interest and charge free overdraft facility  (compared to 
a £100 facility on the Gold Service account), and reduced interest rates on balances  
overdrawn by more  than £250. It also offered reduced interest  rates on personal  loans as 
well. Therefore, where Mr and Mrs P have said they agreed to the account because they 
thought they would be viewed favourably when applying for loans, I think its more likely that 
they agreed to the upgrade because it gave them access to cheaper  loans.  
Ref: DRN94470752So given everything, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P agreed to upgrade  to the 
Platinum account  because they were  told about  the benefits it provided  and were persuaded 
by Lloyds to do so - rather than because they somehow felt they had no choice in the matter.  
I say this particularly  as I can see from Lloydss earliest records in September 2001, Mr and 
Mrs P were  only being charged £8 per month,  when they shouldve  been paying £12 per 
month for the Platinum account. So they were essentially getting  the extra benefits of the 
Platinum account  for the same cost as the Gold Service account  and this continued for a 
number of years.
Mr and Mrs P were  told that the Platinum account was the best account for them. And Lloyds 
accepts that it recommended the account to them. Mr and Mrs P seem  to be under the 
impression that banks arent allowed  to recommend packaged  accounts to account holders 
and by doing so would  constitute as mis-selling. But that is not the case - provided that the 
recommendation that the bank makes  is a reasonable fit for the account holders 
circumstances.
Its clear that having access to an overdraft, as well as loans, was important to Mr and Mrs 
P. And based  on what I know  about Lloyds, I understand that prior to September 2001  it 
charged a £5 overdraft usage  fee on its accounts.  But Mr and Mrs P wouldve avoided 
paying this fee if they remained within the £250  interest and fee free overdraft  facility  that 
came with the Platinum  account. So if Mr and Mrs P stayed within this £250 amount   they 
would in essence have received all of the Platinum  account benefits for £3 extra  (based  on 
the account costing £8 per month  in September  2001) compared  to what  they wouldve paid 
to use such an overdraft  on a fee-free account.
Mr and Mrs P say that they drove  and they occasionally travelled within Europe and the UK 
and they went  to take out loans with Lloyds. And I can see that they took out loans and 
regularly used their overdraft from September 2001,  so its likely that they were using it prior 
to September  2001 as well. 
The Platinum account provided worldwide family travel insurance,  and breakdown cover that 
included relay service and the option to obtain  European breakdown cover for 72 hours for 
no extra  charge. It also provided other benefits such as accidental death cover, travel 
accident cover, extended warranty cover, card and purchase protection  cover alongside the 
banking benefits  that Ive mentioned above.
Based on Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time I dont think  recommending  the Platinum 
account to Mr and Mrs P was unreasonable given  that they were  able to use many  of the 
benefits  for the same cost as the cheaper  Gold Service  account. Mr and Mrs P have said 
that they relied on the travel insurance a few times,  but say it wasnt  suitable for them being 
independent travellers.  Im not sure what Mr and Mrs P mean by this as this policy still 
provided the typical aspects of cover seen in most policies, even when not travelling on a 
packaged holiday. So Mr and Mrs P have not said anything that makes  me think  the travel 
insurance was unsuitable  for them when it was sold to them. 
Ref: DRN94470753Mr and Mrs P have  said that they had additional breakdown  cover, which I can see 
payments for from November 2001  on their statements. Ive not seen anything  that suggests  
they were unaware  it was a benefit  of the account,  so it seems that they agreed to the 
account knowing that it came with breakdown  cover  that they may not need and if they 
wanted to rely on the cover, it wouldve been up to them  to cancel any existing cover they 
had. But, as they were  able to use other  products provided by the account, even if Mr and 
Mrs P didnt need the breakdown cover  doesnt mean that the Platinum account was 
inappropriate for them.  This is because it was sold as a package - so they couldnt pick and 
choose the benefits it came with.
Finally, Mr and Mrs P say because Lloyds has offered to refund the Gold Service  account 
fees, this means  that the Platinum mustve also been mis-sold. But I dont think  that is 
necessarily the case and I have to consider  each  sale on its own merits and the wider  
circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs P may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe that they haven't  benefitted from 
the Platinum account as much as theyd initially hoped and expected  to when they upgraded. 
And given  what they may have read and heard about packaged bank accounts in general, I 
can understand why they might now think their account was mis-sold, particularly as Lloyds 
has refunded them  the account  fees for the earlier packaged account that they had. But I 
think that Mr and Mrs P chose to accept  what,  on the face of things, appear to have been a 
reasonable recommendation. 
So having  thought about all the information provided and listened to everything Mr and Mrs P 
have said, I dont think that their Platinum  packaged  account was mis-sold to them.  I 
therefore dont  think itd be appropriate  to require Lloyds  to refund the Platinum account fees, 
as Mr and Mr P have requested.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9447075