K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
1995. Ms R says that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  her the policy.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Ms Rs complaint, explaining that Id come to 
a different outcome to our adjudicator,  and thought  that Ms Rs complaint should be upheld.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R accepted my provisional decision  HSBC said they had nothing  more to add. So I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision,  and I uphold  Ms Rs complaint.  
putting things right
HSBC should  put Ms R in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and HSBC should:
Pay Ms R the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms R made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  HSBC  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Ms R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Rs complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ref: DRN92742302ombudsman
Ref: DRN92742303provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a loan in 1995.  
Ms R says that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her the policy.
background
When this service first looked at the complaint, our adjudicator didnt  think that it should  be upheld.  
Ms R disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
Before I set out my provisional findings, I should  start by saying that there has been some dispute 
over whether Ms R paid any premiums for her PPI policy  as due to the time thats passed, there are 
no records.  But looking  at the information provided, Im satisfied that Ms R did take out, and pay for 
PPI during the term of the loan. 
Ms R has provided a note which was written at the time she applied for her loan which says £97.01 
per month  (insured)   which is the amount she paid until the loan closed. And the credit agreement 
implies that PPI will be included. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive 
taken this on to account  in deciding  Ms Rs complaint. Having done so, I think  that Ms Rs complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain  why.
Ms R says that PPI was automatically applied to her loan  and that she never asked to take it out. 
Ive looked over Ms Rs credit agreement, and I can see that in the section for PPI, it reads available 
if you are eligible and gives a broad indication of the cost. Theres no option for Ms R to select  or 
decline the PPI, and she also didnt  have to sign separately for the policy.
HSBC has a responsibility  to make  it clear that the PPI was an optional product, and give Ms R a 
choice in taking out the cover, but from the credit agreement Ive seen,  I cant see how it did this. So I 
think Ms R took out the policy even though she didnt want it, and Ms R has lost out because  of what 
HSBC did wrong.
putting things  right
HSBC should put Ms R in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy should  
be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and HSBC should:
Pay Ms R the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
If Ms R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Ms R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN92742304my provisional  decision 
I currently plan on upholding Ms Rs complaint and HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Ill consider anything  else Ms R or HSBC UK Bank Plc would like to send me as long as I receive it by 
3 October 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9274230