K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  pay her home  
insurance claim for storm damage to her porch door. 
background
In March 2019 Mrs S made a claim to RSA following her porch door being  damaged  after 
being caught by the wind. RSA sent out a contractor  to assess  the damage. That contractor 
drew up a specification  for replacement  of the door and gave Mrs S the impression that the 
claim would be settled.  So Mrs S was disappointed to receive  a response from RSA advising 
her that the claim wouldnt be settled  as it said there  were no storm conditions. It explained 
that she didnt  have accidental damage  cover under her policy.  Mrs S had spent  an hour on 
the phone  to RSA,  most of that on hold and she didnt receive a call-back from a manager. 
For the service failings RSA paid Mrs S £100.  It also paid her £15 for the cost of the phone  
call. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that RSA had acted reasonably.  He explained  
that there  were no storm conditions at the time of the claim, so the claim couldn't be paid 
under that part of the policy. As Mrs S didnt have  accidental damage cover, RSA had no 
liability to pay the claim.  He thought  it had paid her a reasonable sum in respect of the 
service failings.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
the claim
Mrs Ss claim was for storm  damage  to her door.  She says that the strong winds blew it 
back, and it was damaged, beyond repair. I dont doubt that the damage happened  in that 
way. But in order for RSA to be liable under the policy  for the damage,  it has to be covered 
under the policy  terms. The only possible cover would be for storm damage.  But storm cover  
is a very specific cover   as Mrs S has been  advised it is only available if there were storm 
conditions at the time of the claim.
Storm isnt defined in the policy but we say a storm generally involves violent  winds,  usually 
accompanied by rain, hail or snow. RSA has said it will pay claims where  there are 
windspeeds of 47mph  or above.  I think thats fair  it reflects the lowest windspeed, 
according to weather records, at which damage  generally occurs. In Mrs Ss case the 
highest recorded windspeed  on the day of the claim was 44mph. I know  thats only 3 mph 
below the lowest  windspeed generally considered  to be storm, but the limit has to be set 
somewhere. And as I say thats in line with the minimum  level at which damage can occur.
So as, according  to the weather records, there were no storm conditions,  I dont think  it can 
fairly be said that there is cover for this claim under the storm part of Mrs Ss policy.
Ref: DRN95907262I appreciate that the contractor who came out said the claim would be paid. But contractors  
dont decide on policy liability,  particularly whether or not there  was a storm. I dont think that 
RSA was bound by that opinion. 
Generally I wouldnt  expect this sort of claim to come  under storm damage.  Its far more  
likely to be covered under  accidental damage. However unfortunately Mrs S doesnt have 
accidental damage  cover under her policy, so there is no cover  for Mrs Ss claim for her door 
under her policy
customer service
Mrs S was told by the contractor who came out at the time that the claim would be settled. I 
can understand her disappointment and frustration  when  she was told by RSA that in fact 
the claim wouldnt be paid. She spent  a long time on the phone  to RSA,  a lot of which  was 
taken up with her being  put on hold. She also didnt receive a promised call-back  from a 
manager. RSA has paid her £100  for this and £15 for the phone call, which  I think is a fair 
way to resolve the matter.
So RSA made  a mistake, but that doesnt  mean that its not entitled  to reassess the matter, 
so long as it compensates  appropriately and I think it has done so in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9590726