K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions  he says he didnt make 
from his account.
background
Mr H disputes 67 transactions from his account  which total £3,762.51. These started  on 15 
February 2018 and continued until 25 June 2018 when his card was retained by a branch. 
The transactions included a number  of card payments  and also cash  withdrawals. Mr H says 
he was in hospital during  this period. And he found  out what happened when he ordered  a 
new card and PIN on 16 July 2018  and accessed  his account. He wants  the money to be 
refunded and says that he lost his card and thinks his PIN was observed  with a camera 
attached to a cash machine. 
Santander told him it wouldnt be refunding the money. The transactions  were made when 
the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. And it believed Mr H had 
told it the card was in his possession. Santander had no record of it being taken by a cash  
machine In February 2018. It didnt consider that these transactions were  fraudulent.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Shed  provided  a summary of the disputed transactions and noted that these 
occurred over a number of months  with some gaps. A fraudster would instead have 
most likely taken  as much money  as quickly as possible.
-Santander had been able to provide  details  of the way the payments were  authorised  
after May 2018 as the older records were  no longer available. She was satisfied that 
payments were made  with the card and correct PIN.
-The pattern of spending was consistent  with that before Mr H said his card had been  
taken and mostly took place  close to his home address. Some  of the same  
merchants and cash points hed used before were  involved.  
-The account seemed carefully  managed within the overdraft limit through  some 
regular credits and transfer in. Given that she couldnt see how Mr H wouldnt have 
noticed these  payments.
-Mr H had told her that no one was aware  of the PIN so she didnt think  someone 
close to him could have made these payments without his authority.
-As Mr H used  his card regularly it was unusual that he hadnt  requested  a 
replacement card any earlier if hed lost his. And it would be a significant coincidence 
for him to order a new card soon after Santander  retained  the old one. 
-It wasnt clear  how Mr H had sustained himself  even  if he was in hospital then as he 
says. And she noted that he also said hed been  in hospital  between August and 
November 2018 and during that time she could see hed made cash withdrawals 
there.
-Santanders records state that Mr H didnt report what  happened  until November 
2018. He was able to order a new card and PIN in hospital in July 2018  and says he 
then found out what  happened  so it was unusual he hadnt  reported what happened  
earlier.
-On balance she thought hed authorised the payments as they were  in line with the 
previous pattern of spending  on the account.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that his PIN must  have  
been observed when his card was taken by a device placed on a cashpoint  machine. The 
Ref: DRN96839312card wasnt  in his possession contrary to what Santander said. He maintained it had been 
taken from him and the transactions were fraudulent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised  
Mr H wouldnt  generally be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr H either authorise  the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Santander says?
Im going  to start with authentication. As our investigator says Santander  doesnt  have the 
authorisation logs now going  back to February 2018. But it has provided them for the 
transactions from 18 May 2018. These logs show that the transactions were authenticated 
with the card and correct  PIN. And I accept on balance that all the transactions  were   the 
issue is whether or not Mr H consented to them. I am in broad agreement  with what  our 
investigators said about this and for the same reasons. I will set out my assessment of the 
most likely events.
Mr H has said hed been unwell and in hospital.  Hes not provided evidence  to show us when 
he was in hospital and whether he was able to leave even  if on a temporary basis.  But as the 
investigator has pointed  out there are genuine  cash withdrawals made from what  seems  to 
be a hospital cash point from August to October  2018. Mr H had also been receiving regular 
state benefit payments to his account starting before  these disputed transactions   the 
nature of which are consistent with him being  unwell. But Im not going  to speculate about  
how his health  issues may have affected him  as I say hes not substantiated that.
In my view key to this assessment is the pattern  of payments. I dont see the relatively small 
size of average payments and extended  period  they took place over consistent  with activities  
by a fraudster. I agree  with our investigator  that the pattern is similar to that both before and 
after the disputed  period  with some of the same merchants used and types  of payments 
made. This pattern isnt inconsistent with payments Mr H could likely have needed for his 
own subsistence even  if at times  in hospital. I note that cash  withdrawals have been made 
soon after benefit  payments suggesting  someone knew  these were  due. And often there 
have been faster payment  credits  which have kept the account just within  the overdraft limit. 
That to me suggests  some close management of the account which would also be 
inconsistent with a fraudster being  involved.  And this means  its most  likely that Mr H knew  
the nature  and type of payments from his account.  The fact that he arranged for a new card 
some months after he says he lost the old one and close to the time the old card was 
retained supports  this. And as he said he was able to order  this when in hospital in July 2018 
I dont see any reason to think he couldnt  have done so any earlier.
Mr H insists that someone close to him wouldnt have carried out these payments without his 
authority as he hadnt disclosed  his PIN. I agree with him on that and in my view taking into 
Ref: DRN96839313account the nature, continuity  and pattern  of payments I consider that these  are entirely  
consistent with regular spending  by Mr H. I think it most likely they were made by him or on 
his behalf with his consent.  And as a result Im persuaded that he authorised them.
So Im afraid  I dont have  a basis to find that Santander need do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9683931