K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Santander  UK plc unfairly  applied charges to her account even 
though she told it that a direct debit had been incorrectly taken from her account. Her 
account was then overdrawn and Santander charged her even more.
background
Miss B had an everyday current account with Santander. In June 2012 she set up a direct 
debit with a third party. It took a first payment from her account in early  August 2012 and 
then a second payment towards  the end of August 2012. When it requested the second  
payment there wasnt enough money in Miss Bs account so Santander returned the direct 
debit unpaid. The third party  requested  the payment again on 10 September  2012 but, 
again, Santander returned it unpaid.
Santander charged £25 each time it returned an item unpaid. Miss B says that these 
charges caused  her account to go overdrawn and then the bank also charged unplanned 
overdraft fees sometimes  up to £100  in a month.  Her account is now more than £500 
overdrawn and is with a debt collection agency.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Santander 
applied the charges fairly and in line with the terms of the account.  And that the bank 
continued to send statements and letters so Miss B was aware of the charges. She didnt 
think that Miss B told Santander that she was experiencing financial difficulties, so didnt 
think it had made any mistake.
Miss B responded to say, in summary,  that shed visited the branch each time she received 
a letter  from Santander  to explain what had happened but it didnt  help her.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B 
and to Santander on 8 November 2018. I summarise my findings:
A direct debit is an instruction given to the bank by an account holder, which allows  a 
named person or organisation  to withdraw  money from that account on a regular basis.  
The organisation that has been given the instruction requests the amount on the date 
that it agreed with the account  holder. The bank doesnt have details of the amounts and 
due dates.
Miss B said that the direct debit  wasnt requested on the day she had agreed  so this took 
her account overdrawn. She was charged £25 when Santander returned it unpaid and 
another £25 when  it was requested, and again  returned, two weeks later.
I considered that if the organisation had made a mistake by making  the request for 
payment too early  then Miss B needed to contact it to ask it to put matters right and to 
ask for a refund of the charges. 
I didnt think Santander made  any mistake  or that it was required to refund the charges.
I was satisfied that Miss B did visit Santander  after she had been charged  and 
considered it was more  likely  than not that she asked it to refund the charges  because  
Ref: DRN94203642she didnt think they were fair. I wasnt persuaded that Miss B told Santander that she 
was having difficulties in paying the charges.
Santander sent Miss B a number of letters about the charges and amount outstanding, 
as well as monthly  statements but she didnt reach  any agreement. I wasnt persuaded 
that she contacted  Santander again about this after October 2012.
Santander sent her notice of default  in May 2013 and passed the account to debt 
collectors in July 2013.
I reviewed  Miss Bs statements to see how a £50 debt increased  to over £500  when she 
wasnt using the account. She had a direct  debit to another organisation for £2 per 
month. Santander decided not to pay it in early  November 2012 and then returned it 
again when payment  was requested a second time. I thought charging Miss B £50 for 
returning a £2 direct debit wasnt  fair.
Santander was entitled to charge unplanned  overdraft fees from November 2012 
because Miss Bs account was more than £12 overdrawn and the charges were debited  
in accordance with the account  terms.
Santander decided  to stop Miss Bs account  in January 2013 because  she hadnt used it 
since early October  2012. It also said that it stopped the charges in February 2013. But I 
found it applied  another £100  of unplanned overdraft fees in March 2013.
Subject to any further representations from Miss B or Santander, my provisional decision 
was that I thought Santander should refund £50 of returned item fees relating to the £2 direct 
debit and £100 of unplanned  overdraft fees that it charged in March 2013.
I said that, despite the refunds, Miss B would  still have an outstanding debt and I urged  her 
to contact Santander, or its debt collection agency,  to agree an acceptable repayment plan. 
The amount  Santander was prepared  to accept on a monthly basis  in respect of the debt 
owed, and its debt recovery procedures generally, are matters  for its own commercial  
judgement but I reminded  it, and the debt collector,  that they have an ongoing duty to treat 
someone in financial  difficulty positively and sympathetically.
Miss B didnt respond  to my provisional  decision.
Santander accepted my findings and agreed  to make the refunds although it said that its 
terms allowed it to charge an unpaid direct  debit fee regardless of the amount of the direct 
debit being returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has agreed to refund a total of £150.  The further representations it has made  
about the value of the direct debit  do not alter my opinion. I accept the terms of the account 
allow it to charge each  time it returns a direct  debit but, in these circumstances, I consider it 
unfair to charge £50.
Ref: DRN94203643my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Santander UK plc to:
refund  £50 of returned item fees
refund  £100  of unplanned overdraft fees
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9420364