K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about the problems he had accessing his TSB Bank plc account and 
that he received  a letter addressed to a third party.
background 
In April 2018, TSB began  having issues with its IT system.  As a result of these, Mr H was 
unable to access his account and wasnt sure whether direct debit payments that were due 
to be taken, had in fact been paid. Mr H complained  to TSB about  this. 
TSB sent Mr H a number  of letters explaining that it hadnt  yet been able to look into his 
concerns at that time.  In the course of doing so, TSB enclosed  a copy  of a letter intended for 
a third party. This caused Mr H to become  concerned  about  the safety of his own data. Mr H 
contacted TSB to raise these concerns as well. 
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought TSB should compensate 
Mr H £150 and send  him a letter  of apology for the impact caused. 
Ultimately, Mr H didnt  agree with this outcome.  He felt his issues with access should  be 
treated separately  to the concerns about  his data. He also felt that, as TSB hadnt  sent him 
the letter of apology, £150 wasnt enough  compensation. His complaint has been passed  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of whether  the issues Mr H has raised should be dealt with as one or separately; I 
consider that the issues with having  been sent a third partys  letter  are connected  to the first 
complaint he raised. The letter was sent as part of TSBs handling of this complaint. So I do 
consider them to be linked issues. 
That said,  whether  the issues  are looked at together or separately, does not have an impact  
on my consideration  of what should  be done to address them.  I have taken all of the 
circumstances raised  into consideration. 
It is clear that Mr H was frustrated and concerned by his inability to access his account,  and 
to confirm whether  or not planned payments were actually being made on time.  It is also 
accepted that the cause of this was the issues TSB experienced at the time. And so I 
consider TSB is responsible for the impact  caused  to Mr H. 
Fortunately, it seems that there was no actual financial impact  all of Mr Hs payments were 
made successfully. But I can understand his concerns at time about this. 
Similarly, I can understand that Mr H was upset when he received  a letter  intended for 
someone else. And that he was concerned about the safety  of his own data. We have been  
made aware  of other instances  where  letters were sent to the wrong recipients by TSB.  
However, TSB have  identified the individuals who were affected by this. And have contacted  
all customers who had their data breached in this way. 
Ref: DRN92363482As I say, I can understand the concern  Mr H had about his own data. But, as he hasnt been 
contacted by TSB about having  his data breached, and in the absence of any other evidence 
to the contrary,  it does  seem most likely  that his data remained safe.
I also note that after Mr H initially accepted the outcome recommended  by the investigator, 
TSB made the payment  of £150,  but didnt send him the letter  of apology. This is unfortunate 
and I appreciate Mr H isnt happy  about this. But, whilst I agree TSB should  provide this 
letter, I dont think not having received this so far warrants a higher award of compensation. 
I agree  that Mr H has suffered trouble and upset as a result of the issues  with his account  
and with receiving  a third partys letter. Taking  everything into account, I think TSB should 
pay him £150 compensation for this.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, TSB Bank  plc 
should pay Mr H £150 compensation  and provide him with a letter  of apology.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9236348