K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about the quality of building work  that he paid for using his credit card 
provided by Sainsburys  Bank Plc.
background 
In April 2018 Mr J paid a supplier a limited  company  who I will call S to carry out building  
work at his mothers home. I will call this contract the service and supply contract. He was 
dissatisfied with the quality of the work and complained about it to Sainsburys Bank.  On the 
basis that he had used his credit  card to pay S, Mr J thought he had the protection  of Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Mr J would like a full or partial refund.
Sainsburys Bank declined Mr Js claim. It did this because it didnt agree that he was a party 
to the service and supply  contract. It therefore  didnt agree  that he could  rely on the 
provisions of Section  75. In coming to this conclusion, it looked  at who benefitted directly  
from the service and supply contract. It told him because he didnt benefit  from it, in the 
sense that the work was for a house  he did not live in, he was not a contracting party.
That said,  Sainsburys Bank  did indicate  that it had not provided the level of customer  
service Mr J was entitled to expect in dealing with his complaint. It offered  him £125 to make  
up for this.
Dissatisfied, Mr J came to our service. Amongst  other things, Mr J provided photos of the 
areas where  he said corrective work was needed.
When the complaint  was with us, we were  in contact with S. It suggested it had already put 
right everything that Mr J complained about before Mr J had come  to us. Its position  was that 
there were no outstanding  corrective works  it had all been  completed. It thought the photos  
that Mr J had sent were  from the time before  the work was put right. It told us it had recently  
visited the property  again and Mr Js mother had indicated that the work was fine and 
nothing further  was required. In response  Mr J sent in new photos.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint. She was satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable to say that Sainsburys Bank had to take responsibility for putting things right.  
She said this because in the circumstances she thought Mr J had contracted  with S. 
That said,  she thought  she didnt have sufficient information to say what further, if anything,  
needed to be done to make it so that Mr J got what he had paid for. In particular, she said an 
independent inspection of the works  would have  helped  her decide this. Mr J had suggested 
he was going  to provide an independent inspection  report  and then did not. Sainsburys 
Bank had agreed  to pay for the report,  if Mr J commissioned it. Mr J explained  he had not 
been able to find anyone with the relevant experience to provide the expert report.
Sainsburys Bank accepted our investigators recommendations, Mr J did not. In summary, 
he responded to say again, that the work was not done  to a professional standard.  He 
suggested hed provided sufficient information to support  his position. He let us know  about 
thirteen points that he wanted us to consider  and respond to.
We could go no further with this complaint at this first stage, so, I was asked  to review Mr Js 
complaint.
Ref: DRN99140102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have finished  my review  of Mr Js complaint. I dont  agree I have any proper basis  for 
asking Sainsburys Bank to take any further action in relation to this complaint. I explain 
below why I have  come to this conclusion.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr J brought his complaint to Sainsburys Bank relying on the rights he says he has under 
Section 75. Mr J has also made comments about how we decide complaints that lead me to 
think he perhaps thinks that this service  operates like a court. With these points  in mind, I 
think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Js complaint,  I have  to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome or take 
the same  approach as, for example,  a court might reach if Mr J pursued a claim in court.  Our 
service is an informal  alternative  to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr J has a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim  against Sainsburys Bank provided 
certain conditions  are met. 
One of these conditions is that there  must be a very specific relationship  in place  that is a 
relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. Sainsburys Bank said that no such valid 
relationship was in place  because Mr J did not benefit from the contract.  
I think that Sainsburys Bank has now accepted that there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship here as Mr J was a contracting party with the supplier under the service and 
supply contract.
However, in case I am mistaken, and Sainsburys Bank has not accepted this point then I 
have looked at it. 
Unless the debtor is a party to the contract, then there can be no debtor-creditor-supplier  
relationship. In principle,  as far as I am aware,  there  is no difficulty  in law with a situation 
Ref: DRN99140103whereby a person A contracts with another person B to provide goods to benefit a third 
party C. So, I think that the point about who benefitted from the contract, raised  by 
Sainsburys Bank, is irrelevant here.  Rather, the question is was Mr J a party  to the contract 
with S?
Sainsburys Bank has suggested its point about a whether a debtor must benefit from the 
supply contract in order to benefit from Section 75, is supported  by Section 12 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Section 12 sets out what is a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement 
for the purposes  of the Act. But nowhere does it talk about benefitting  from a contract as 
being a vital prerequisite for this relationship to exist.
For all these reasons, I am not persuaded by what Sainsburys Bank initially  said about this 
issue.
 
Instead, as I mention above Ive looked  at whether Mr J contracted with S. In looking at this 
question, Ive looked at all the information I have  available to me and specifically  how the 
contract was made and the contractual documents and the wider circumstances. 
Mr J explains  some documents relating to the works  had to be signed for by the homeowner,  
his mother, as she was the person that lived in the house and the works  were for the house. 
If she were to sell the house  it was important that the benefits of the work  could be passed 
on to whoever might buy the house from her. However, he signed the contract  with S, he 
carried out all the negotiations and he was the person who chased  S when he was unhappy  
with the work.
For all of these reasons, I think it is fair and reasonable to ask Sainsburys Bank  to take 
responsibility here as I think there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship, as Mr J 
was a contracting party.
That said,  Mr J has suggested that Sainsburys Bank misled  him by taking the stance it did. I 
dont agree with him. Rather, it had merely  formed a different view on this point which it was 
entitled to put forward.  
The next point  is whether  there has been  a breach of contract  that Sainsburys Bank ought 
to fairly and reasonably put right.
In a contract  of this sort Mr J was entitled  to require the supplier  to carry out the work with 
reasonable skill and care. Mr Js stance is that the work was not done to this standard and 
remedial works didnt correct the outstanding  issues. S said that it did. Sainsburys Bank  it 
seems supports Ss position on this issue.  
In a situation like this where the parties  are in disagreement about the quality of the work, it 
can be very helpful to have a report from an impartial  expert.  We dont have that. I also have 
information from the person living in the house Mr Js mother  suggesting she thinks  that 
there are no remaining issues. Mr J suggests in turn that we ought not to put weight on her 
opinion on this, due to his mothers age and her judgement. But age is no reason to discount 
a persons views.  As far as I am aware,  Mr Js mother is a lady who lives independently in 
her own home, so I dont  think  I have  any proper basis to question  her judgement. And I 
think as the person living in the house  shed be in a good position to know  if there were 
remaining quality issues with the work.
Ref: DRN99140104I realise Mr J thinks the photos he has provided are sufficient for me to say the work needs  
putting right.  But I see it differently. He is making technical points about the work. S is an 
expert and it rebuts what he says after having  done remedial  work and a recent site visit.  
Naturally neither  party is impartial here which is why it would have been  useful  to have 
expert evidence from a neutral third party.
In all the circumstances and on balance, Im not persuaded that there are remedial works 
required that Sainsburys Bank ought to fairly  and reasonably put right.  
Mr J complains about the customer service he has received  from Sainsburys Bank. It 
suggested it had let down Mr J here because he had to chase it for responses  in particular, 
for letters. It had offered  Mr J £125  for this. I think this is an appropriate award for this.
For all of these reasons, it follows I find I have no proper basis  to require Sainsburys Bank  
to take any further  action.  If Mr J wants to accept Sainsburys  Banks  offer of £125 he needs 
to contact it directly about this. If it has not already paid him this money.
Mr J has now also raised a question about the information registered on his credit file and 
the impact this has had on his ability  to remortgage He has also raised an issue  about being  
chased for the debt. These  appear to be new matters and have not been  considered by 
Sainsburys Bank in its final response to Mr J or investigated within  this complaint. It follows 
that I am unable to look at these matters in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9914010