K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint concerns a life and critical  illness  policy sold by Allan  Reece 
Associates (ARA) when arranging a re-mortgage for their buy-to-let  property. They say they 
were given the choice  of paying an upfront fee or taking out a life assurance  policy, the 
commission from which would pay the advisers fees. They  subsequently learned  they could 
have found cheaper cover  elsewhere and cancelled the policy but then received a demand 
from ARA for the outstanding fee but had never been told about  the clawback clause or how 
it would  work.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 21 May 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  previously outlined I do not think there is sufficient  evidence  to uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95893192provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  concerns a life and critical illness policy sold by Allan Reece  Associates 
(ARA) when arranging a re-mortgage for their buy-to-let property. They say they were  given the 
choice of paying an upfront fee or taking out a life assurance policy, the commission from which would  
pay the advisers fees. They  subsequently  learned  they could have found  cheaper cover elsewhere 
and cancelled  the policy but then received a demand from ARA for the outstanding fee but had never  
been told about the clawback clause or how it would work.
background
ARA proposed to charge Mr and Mrs M a fee waiver agreement of 1% of the mortgage offer for 
arranging their mortgage. This would be waived if they took out life cover  but they would be liable  for 
the lost commission if they cancelled the insurance  policy  during the clawback  period. There was 
limited information about the clawback  and how it would  operate  if Mr and Mrs M cancelled the policy  
within the 48 month  tie-in period. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  Mr and Mrs M were aware of the 48 month lock-in and he didnt 
feel this feature was made sufficiently clear. He felt that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have gone ahead  if 
theyd fully understood that they would be effectively locked into the policy  for 48 months.
The adjudicator recommended that ARA should write  off the alleged debt and outstanding fees in full 
and final settlement  of this complaint and reimburse Mr and Mrs M for any expenses  they incurred  in 
responding to the debt recovery summons they received.
ARA didnt  agree, and said:
Mr and Mrs M said they learned they couldve found cheaper cover elsewhere  and cancelled  
the policy.  They  actually  cancelled soon after the third anniversary but provided no evidence  
of this or that it had been replaced  by a like-for-like replacement. It was their choice to ask it 
to arrange a policy rather than pay the fees
The fee structure  and offset facility were fully explained and accepted and this part of its 
standard compliance procedure. They  tell all clients not to opt for the offset arrangement just 
to avoid  the fees. Mr and Mrs M, against its advice, put themselves and their family at risk by 
cancelling the policy and apparently not replacing it. Clearly they miscalculated the clawback  
period. 
It was after the suitability letter was issued  that Mr and Mrs M asked ARA to arrange the 
policy so there was no necessity  to repeat  the clawback conditions already discussed. On 7 
May 2015 Mr and Mrs M stated  that they didnt want to pay the professional  fee but instead 
wanted to arrange a life and critical illness policy. The policy documentation detailed the 
policy conditions and the clawback  period  which  mirrored what  was discussed at the original 
client meeting.  It is wrong to suggest there was nothing to show they didnt fully understand 
the financial implications  of cancelling  the policy  within  48 months. 
It is quite  wrong to suggest that a policy should be kept for the clawback period only.  The 
policy was arranged for a term of 29 years to mirror the mortgage term,  not for four years to 
cover the clawback  period so as to avoid  paying its professional fees.
It questions why it needed to send  Mr and Mrs M a copy  of the fee waiver agreement  when 
they were given an original signed copy at the initial  meeting on 25 February 2015 when the 
clawback clause was explained in detail.
Ref: DRN95893193As all the fees and charges were  explained  in detail on 25 February 2015, and in writing,  it 
cant see how the adjudicator felt Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have  gone ahead if theyd fully 
understood they would be locked  into the policy for 48 months. They knew exactly  what  they 
were doing  and if they had any doubts there was ample opportunity to withdraw. They chose 
to go ahead in the full knowledge of the fees,  charges  and contractual conditions. It is clear 
they werent interested in protecting themselves and their family over the mortgage term of 29 
years but were merely trying to avoid paying its professional fees. 
It has had to repay the amount in question so it has not been properly remunerated  for the 
work undertaken in accordance with the signed fee agreement. That cannot  be right and is a 
breach of contract. Another client  tried a similar  ploy seven years ago. The case went to Court 
and the Judge found in favour  of the business and they were reimbursed fully.
The adjudicator did not agree, saying:
Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation of the policy doesnt mean they fully understood the commission 
clawback conditions or that it was properly  explained. Simply  saying they signed the 
agreement isnt enough.
Neither the suitability letter nor any other document explained  that if Mr and Mrs M took out 
life cover theyd still be liable  for the professional  fee or part of it if they cancelled it within four 
years. In his view this was a fundamental part of the contract that should have been  explained 
in the suitability letter  along with all the other details.
While  it was standard procedure to explain the fee structure  hed seen  no evidence that this 
was done. Whilst the fees may have been discussed  verbally the suitability letter made no 
mention of them or of the fee waiver agreement
Given its importance, he felt that the warning that clients shouldnt opt for the offset  
arrangement just to avoid paying the fees should  have been repeated in the suitability letter.
He noted that while the KFI breaks down what the commission would  be it didnt tell Mr and 
Mrs M that ARA would recover any lost commission if they cancelled the policy within four 
years.
ARA had an obligation  to explain the implications of cancelling the policy and the commission 
clawback.
The clawback  conditions werent  explained  properly  in the documentation even if they were  
seemingly mentioned  verbally and in the agreement.
ARA didnt  agree, and made the following comments:
Mr and Mrs M stated  in their complaint that they believed the policy was mis-sold and that 
theyd cancelled it. They also said they believed it took advantage and overcharged them  for 
a life policy  and insurance they didnt  need. 
In their complaint to the ombudsman service  they said their complaint  was about the mis-
selling. Its letter dated 10 September 2018 reiterated its understanding  of the complaint and 
asked Mr and Mrs M to contact it if its understanding was incorrect.
They  were also requested to bring to its attention any other  matters they wished it to take into 
consideration. No response was received. 
The adjudicator didnt ask Mr and Mrs M for evidence in support of their claim.
The Terms of Business  were  explained,  in detail, at the original meeting on 25 February 2015. 
The clawback provision was explained in detail  to Mr and Mrs M and they were left in no 
doubt as to how the fee structure and offset arrangement works. If they had not understood 
they would not have been allowed to sign the Terms of Business and it would not have 
agreed to act.
In all initial client  meetings clients are asked to read and understand the Terms of Business  
before signing it. Mr and Mrs M indicated  that they understood  how the clawback provision 
worked before signing  the Terms of Business  document.
Mr and Mrs M knew exactly how much they were being charged and how the fees and 
charges were calculated. They  also knew that a fee would become due and if they lapsed the 
Ref: DRN95893194policy within the clawback  period. The clawback should  not be relevant as the policy for a 
term of 29 years. 
If there was "no detailed explanation of the fee waiver agreement" why did Mr and Mrs M 
specifically request  ARA to put the policy in place  so they did not have to pay our fees?  Also, 
neither Mr and Mrs M nor the Financial Ombudsman Service has produced any evidence to 
support their claim that theyve found a cheaper policy elsewhere.  
To suggest that a married self-employed  man with two children  and a wife not earning an 
income with a mortgage  of £278,400 shouldnt take out protection cover  is the height of 
irresponsibility. Maintaining a policy  just to cover a clawback period of four years when  one 
has a 29 year mortgage is gross negligence. It is astounded that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service would prioritise the clawback  provision over prudent financial planning and protection 
of the family in a worst-case scenario.
Mr and Mrs M knew exactly what would happen if they lapsed  the policy  within the clawback 
period. To say there is no way of confirming  that the procedures implemented correctly 
carried out in suggests the adjudicator  doubts  its word and the word  of the adviser which it 
finds most offensive. If Mr and Mrs M do not make  good their agreement legal proceedings  
will be recommenced. It has precedent in a case such as this and is confident that a Court will 
find in its favour  of the Firm. 
As agreement  couldnt be reached the complaint has been bee referred to me to be review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am satisfied that the document  signed by Mr and Mrs M on 25 February 2015  clearly sets out 
ARAs basic terms i.e. that in return for arranging the mortgage they would be charged 1% of that sum 
as an arrangement fee. It also explained that they could avoid this fee if they took out a recommended 
life policy instead.
So in my view, Mr and Mrs M were  aware that ARAs mortgage-arrangement service was clearly not 
free. If they did not want to pay any fee to obtain a mortgage then they ought to have realised  they 
could not go ahead with either of ARAs  recommendations,  irrespective of how much detail was 
explained. Equally, if they did not want to, in effect,  pay ARA a fee via the alternative mechanism  of 
agreeing to the life policy, they should also have decided not to go ahead.
ARA was entitled to charge for its mortgage-arrangement  service  so I dont agree with the 
adjudicators view that it should refund  the fees it has received  via the life policy. This would  put Mr 
and Mrs M in a more  financially advantageous position than they could possibly have been  in i.e. they 
will have obtained  a mortgage via ARA without  paying  any fee for this.
If I were  to take the view that Mr and Mrs M would not have gone ahead with the policy  if better 
informed about the clawback clause, then logically I would  then have to instruct  the mortgage provider 
to cancel  their mortgage  (clearly something beyond my powers) in order to ensure  Mr and Mrs M were  
put back  in the position  of never having taken up ARAs  recommendation.
Overall, I found Mr and Mrs Ms evidence  about whether  they wanted life cover unclear and would ask 
them to clarify  this issue in response to this provisional decision. But from what  Ive read, it seems as 
if they only agreed to this policy in order to avoid  the arrangement fee, something which was entirely 
understandable and something no doubt  other  ARA clients choose to do. Whatever Mr and Mrs Ms 
motivation, I am satisfied that ARA made clear the cost of the policy  so it was up to Mr and Mrs M to 
decide whether to go ahead with the recommendation.  
Ref: DRN95893195They could, instead, have chosen to investigate how much other providers were  charging for 
comparable cover, and considered whether this policy  was too expensive  even taking  account that it 
meant they avoiding paying the arrangement fee. So I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were able to 
decide whether, broadly-speaking, they wanted to go ahead with this arrangement.  
I have, however, considered  whether ARA did make  the clawback provision sufficiently clear  to Mr 
and Mrs M such  that they were in a positon to decide whether to go ahead with the policy  or pay the 
upfront fee. I am satisfied that the letter  in February and April made  clear  and unambiguous 
references to the policy and its clawback charges. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs M ought to have been 
in any doubt about this.
I share some of the adjudicators concern  about the precise mechanism and the specific costs not 
being spelt out clearly,  particularly in the later documentation.  And, on balance,  I think Mr and Mrs M 
may have gone ahead without fully being aware of the exact time commitment or financial 
consequences of defaulting on the deal by cancelling their policy.
But given everything I have said above, I think they ought reasonably  to have sought  further 
clarification from ARA both before agreeing to take this policy out and before deciding  to cancel  the 
policy. In my view, I think  they ought reasonably  to have  realised their might  be a price to pay for the 
cancellation, even if they were not aware  of exactly how much this was.
So, overall,  I do not think  there  is sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.  What this means, in 
practice, is I dont intend to ask ARA to cancel their debt or its actions in pursuing this debt.
my provisional  decision
I currently do not intend  to uphold this complaint.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9589319