K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the increase  in premiums  for his short-term income protection  
insurance policy held with Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G).
background
Mr H held a short-term income protection insurance  policy with L&G.  The policy  would pay 
him benefit for up to twelve months  if he was unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or 
involuntary unemployment.
In 2017, L&G offered  to renew  the policy for a premium was over twice  as much as the 
premium had been the previous year. Mr H queried  this with L&G but it confirmed the quoted 
price was correct. Mr H thought the size of the increase was unfair. He chose not to renew 
with L&G.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He was satisfied that 
L&G had acted fairly.
Mr H didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He considered it was unfair for L&G to more  
than double the premium at renewal.  He said hed been able to find comparable cover from 
other insurers for less than half the amount of L&Gs renewal quote which suggested  the 
increase was unjustified. He said that he would feel vulnerable if he were to switch  to 
another insurer because he would probably have to serve a qualifying period before  he could 
make a claim.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr Hs policy  is for period of twelve months. The policy document  explains that if L&G is 
offering to renew  the policy it will contact him at least 21 days before the renewal date to 
confirm the renewal terms, including the new premium to be paid. Im satisfied  L&G fulfilled 
this requirement when it contacted Mr H in advance of the 2017 renewal.
With regard to the level of premium,  I should  explain that we generally take the view it is up 
to an insurer to decide how much to charge  for its policies. Provided  that it exercises this 
judgement fairly and consistently, in accordance with its internal guidelines, it is a matter with 
which we wouldnt normally interfere.
L&G has explained that it had reviewed its pricing structure for the policy  in question.  It is 
entitled to do this. As a result of this review, some customers, including Mr H, were subject 
to a significant increase in their premium  in 2017. L&G has provided detailed evidence  to 
show how it calculated Mr Hs renewal premium. I cant share  this information with Mr H but I 
can assure him I have  checked the figures and am satisfied his premium  was calculated 
accurately and fairly. While I understand Mr Hs disappointment at the increase, I cant  
reasonably conclude that L&G has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN93194402Mr H has referred  to the availability of comparable cover from other providers at a far 
cheaper price. However, it is up to each insurer to decide how to assess  risk and to how to 
price its policies. I cant reasonably conclude that the availability of cheaper cover elsewhere 
means that L&Gs price  increase was unfair.
Mr H has also referred  to the potential difficulty of switching  his cover to another provider. I 
sympathise with him over this but it doesnt  mean L&G is obliged to limit increases to his 
premium. As already explained,  Im satisfied that L&G calculated  his renewal premium fairly  
and he was treated  no differently to any other policyholder in his situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9319440