K821x#15complaint
Miss E has complained  Metro Bank PLC closed her account without notice and placed a 
fraud-related marker on her record.
background
Miss E opened a current account with Metro  in 2017. Around  the time of her A level results,  
Miss E was staying with friends and enjoying a release from study for the time being.
On 19 August 2017 a new account  was opened  in Miss Es name and £2,900 was paid into 
that account. That was then transferred into her current account and withdrawn using her 
card and PIN. Metro  was told by a third party  that this £2,900 was a fraudulent  payment and 
decided to close Miss Es accounts. They also lodged a fraud-related marker against Miss E 
with the industry  fraud database,  CIFAS.
Miss E told Metro she hadnt  opened  the new account or made any transfer or subsequent 
payments. Metro felt there must have been quite  a bit of compromise of details  her card, 
PIN, customer and security numbers  so at a minimum shed not looked after her account 
details as required by their terms and conditions. Miss E brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service in 2019 when she realised  the impact a CIFAS marker was having on 
her life.
After reviewing all the evidence  including phone  calls between Metro  and Miss E  our 
investigator didnt  think  that Metro  had met the tests for lodging a CIFAS marker. She asked 
Metro to remove this.
Metro felt they had enough reasons to lodge the marker against Miss E. Theyve asked an 
ombudsman to consider  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank  must  have  a good reason to 
believe it could have  suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press  
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should  be more  than just a 
suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank  must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this requirement. 
Given the impact a CIFAS marker  can have  on someone,  the bank is expected to keep a 
record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached  to record the CIFAS 
marker.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were covered in our investigators  view of 29 August 2019.  I dont intend to 
Ref: DRN99733612repeat everything  that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the 
basis of my decision. I can reassure Miss E and Metro  Ive read the file thoroughly  and 
reviewed all the evidence.  
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
During this period  in the summer  of 2017, Miss E was living with friends, partying and 
enjoying a period without exams. Its clear  from what shes  told us  and testimony 
from a friend  that this was quite a chaotic time with people coming and going. 
Miss E mislaid  her purse during this period.
I suspect this involved a lot of people who werent invited coming to the house she 
was staying. Weve  been told of jewellery  and other belongings also going missing.
Miss E was young  and had only just opened her Metro account but she wasnt 
planning on using  it. In fact she still had all her security information with her whilst 
staying with friends. She felt she needed  this as shed not used the account  much.
Certainly what happened here  a recently-opened account  and a young account-
holder  could  fit the profile of suspected  fraudulent behaviour.
Whats not clear however is that this was committed by Miss E herself.
The payments  out  including cash machine  withdrawals and other  card transactions 
 happen pretty  instantaneously after the credit  of £2,900 was received.
Miss E has explained to us why she didnt tell her parents what had happened.  She 
wasnt initially concerned  about her account  being closed but was concerned  when 
she found out about the CIFAS marker and how it would impact her. She was 
concerned what her parent might say and think.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN and 
security details to be compromised; rather whether  the payment services user (Miss E in this 
case) authorised these  transactions.  Its not my role to decide  how someone else could have 
got hold of Miss Es details, made these transactions or to investigate  who that potential  
fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Miss Es card and PIN and security details without her consent. Ive thought about the 
different scenarios that could have  happened here. Overall I can see there was a clear  point 
of compromise.
I have also carefully considered Metros argument  why Miss Es account was used in this 
way. However one key piece of evidence is Miss Es surprise thered been another  account  
opened in her name.
Overall I dont believe Miss E made  or authorised the transactions  from her account  or knew 
about these. Nor do I believe Metro  has met the relevant tests. Therefore they need to 
remove the CIFAS marker  lodged against  Miss Es record.
I have considered this complaint carefully.  There is supporting evidence for Metros  
assertion; likewise there is evidence  in support of Miss E. I have  to decide this case  on the 
balance of probabilities, and considering the case overall and on balance  I have decided the 
facts support  the outcome  as outlined above.
Ref: DRN99733613my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Metro  Bank  PLC to remove the 
CIFAS marker  lodged  against Miss E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9973361