K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has declined his claim for damage under 
his landlords  insurance policy.
When I refer to UKI Im also referring  to any of their appointed representatives or agents.
background
Mr J took out a landlords insurance policy in November 2018 through a broker for a house 
he owned and rented out. The broker insured Mr J with UKI.
About six weeks later Mr J made a claim on his policy for damage caused  by his tenants.  
UKI appointed an expert to visit Mr J and speak to him about the claim. Having received the 
experts report, UKI declined the claim. They said when Mr J took out the policy  he had failed 
to disclose that hed previously been the director of two companies that had been placed into 
insolvency. UKI told Mr J they would  have declined to insure him had this information been  
known to them.
Mr J complained to UKI. He said that he hadnt been  asked the question by the broker  when 
he bought the policy.
UKI explained to Mr J that hed received the Statement of Fact from the broker, which asked 
him to make  sure all the information  contained in it was accurate. The Statement of Fact 
asked if Mr J had previously been  declared bankrupt or insolvent  or involved with any 
company that had gone into receivership, administration or liquidation. That had been  
answered No and Mr J hadnt amended  that. UKI avoided Mr Js policy  (treated it as never 
have been in force). As they felt the misrepresentation was reckless,  UKI kept the insurance 
premium paid.
Mr J complained to our service. Our investigator  told Mr J that UKI had shown  that they 
wouldnt have offered insurance to Mr J had they known the correct  information. So he was 
satisfied that their decision to avoid his policy was a fair one. But he felt that Mr J had made  
a careless mistake rather than acted  recklessly, so he asked UKI to refund Mr Js insurance 
premium to him. 
Both Mr J and UKI disagreed with this resolution. Mr J said that he wasnt  aware he had a 
commercial insurance policy and wasnt aware he needed  to disclose previous company 
ownership or involvement. UKI said that Mr J hadnt made a careless mistake,  hed been 
reckless. 
As neither party agreed its been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN95050892Ill start by confirming that Im only looking at the actions  of UKI in this decision. Mr J has 
brought a separate  complaint to our service about  the broker, so I wont comment on their 
actions here.
I know that Mr J feels strongly that his policy wasnt a commercial one and it doesnt show 
that it is anywhere on his paperwork. However the nature of the insurance policy and what 
its required for tells me its a commercial policy. 
So its the Insurance Act (the Act) that applies in this case. 
The Insurance Act sets out that its for the insured (Mr J) to make a fair presentation of risk 
to UKI. The Act says it requires:
Disclosure of every  material circumstance which the insured knows  or ought to know, 
or
Failing that, disclosure  which gives the insurer sufficient  information  to put a prudent  
insurer on notice that it needs to make  further  enquiries for the purpose  of revealing 
those material circumstances.
The Act also states that fair representation need  not be contained  in only one document or 
oral presentation.
In order for UKI to take any action  they need  to show Mr J didnt make a fair presentation 
and made  whats known as a qualifying breach. Under the Act a qualifying  breach is a 
breach for which the insurer has a remedy against  the customer because they would either 
have not sold them the policy or would have done so on different terms. 
Mr J has argued  passionately that he wasnt asked any questions  about his previous 
involvement with any companies  when he set the policy  up. However while  we consider it 
good industry practice for the insurer to ask clear  questions  about what  they want  to know  
when selling  the policy, the Act doesnt give this as a consideration when deciding if a 
customer made a fair presentation  of the risk. 
Also, the brokers terms and conditions say the broker was acting as Mr Js agent when 
setting up the policy with UKI. That means  the broker had a responsibility to make a fair 
presentation of the risk on Mr Js behalf.  And I cant hold UKI responsible  for anything  the 
broker might, or might not have  done  wrong. 
Ive looked at the Statement of Fact and this asked  Mr J a specific question  about his 
previous involvement  with any companies  that had gone into receivership, administration  or 
liquidation. As the question was included in the Statement of Fact Im satisfied this was 
clearly set out as something UKI wanted  to know about.
Mr J didnt let UKI know that hed previously been  the director  of two companies,  both of 
which had gone  into insolvency. This is something its most likely that Mr J would  have 
known and it was his duty to make sure he provided this as a fair presentation of the risk.   
By not doing  so, Mr J hasnt allowed UKI to accurately assess the risk and make an informed  
decision on whether  or not to accept that risk.
So I think Mr J breached  his duty of fair presentation. UKI have shown our service  that they 
wouldnt have offered Mr J a policy had he answered the question correctly  and made  a fair 
presentation. So Im satisfied he made  a qualifying  breach. Under the Act a qualifying  
Ref: DRN95050893breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. For a qualifying 
breach to be deliberate or reckless the customer needs to know they are in breach of the 
duty of fair presentation or not care whether they were in breach of that duty. Its for the 
insurer to show that a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless.  
While the broker completed  the application on Mr Js behalf  I also think  Mr J had an 
opportunity to correct  this information once he received  the Statement of Fact prior to 
confirming the information was correct  with his broker. But hes confirmed that while  he 
received this and additional paperwork from the broker he didnt open or read these 
documents. UKIs said Mr Js decision not to check the information the broker was providing 
was correct was reckless. But I dont think UKIs done enough to show this. While Mr Js said 
he didnt read the documents  Im not persuaded that he or his broker didnt care if the 
information was correct. So I think the qualifying  breach was neither deliberate  nor reckless. 
As UKI wouldnt have  offered Mr J a policy if hed made  a fair presentation UKI is entitled - In 
line with the remedies set out in the Act - to avoid Mr Js policy.  That means  there was no 
policy in force at the time of his claim so UKI can turn down the claim. However as I think the 
qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless UKI should  refund Mr Js premium.  
Due to the time Mr Js been  without this money  and UKI should have paid him sooner, UKI 
should add interest  to this amount at a rate of 8% simple from the date they decided  to avoid 
the policy to the date they make payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above I uphold this complaint. Im telling  U K Insurance  Limited to:
Refund the insurance premium paid by Mr J. They should add 8% simple  interest to 
this amount from the date they avoided  the policy to the date they make  the 
payment.*
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If U K Insurance  Limited  deducts  income  
tax from the interest  it should tell Mr J how much has been  taken off. U K Insurance Limited  
should give Mr J a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9505089