K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Amtrust Europe  Limited  has rejected his claim under his gadget  
insurance for accidental  loss of a watch.
background
On 2 January  2019 Mr H reported the loss of his watch  to Amtrust. He had left the watch  in 
his hotel room  and gone out. He came  back and went to bed  when he woke  up the next 
morning the watch  had gone.  After  reviewing the claim  Amtrust contacted Mr H to tell him 
the claim had been accepted. He would receive  either a replacement watch or vouchers. 
Mr H paid the excess and he was then advised  he would receive a replacement  watch.  Later 
he contacted Amtrust  to complain as he hadnt  received the new watch. 
Subsequently, on 17 January Amtrust responded to Mr Hs complaint. It said that it had 
reviewed the claim and wouldnt now be settling it. It said he hadnt  accidentally  left the 
watch but rather had deliberately left it in the hotel room. So as this didnt come  under  the 
definition of accidental  loss in the policy it couldnt  now accept the claim. Whilst the watch  
may have  been  stolen  under the terms of the policy Mr H couldnt  claim for theft unless 
force, resulting in damage to the premises, was used to gain entry or exit (and there was no 
sign of force having  been used).
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  it was unfair  that Amtrust rejected the 
claim having previously accepted it, without further  evidence. She said Amtrust should deal 
with the claim and pay £50 for the inconvenience  caused. 
Whilst accepting that Mr H had suffered inconvenience and agreeing with the £50 award,  
Amtrust nevertheless thought it was still right to reject the claim.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has cover for accidental loss under his policy. That says that loss Means that the 
gadget has been accidentally left by you in a location and you are permanently deprived of 
its use.
Mr H left the watch in his hotel room and this was accepted by Amtrust at first as accidental 
loss under the policy. When reviewing the complaint Amtrust decided  that Mr H had 
deliberately left the watch so it wasnt accidental. It went on to say that the watch may have 
been stolen but that it wasnt covered for that as force, in gaining  entry  or exit wasnt  
involved.
I think it was unfair for Amtrust, in reviewing  a complaint about delay, to overturn the 
acceptance of the claim where it had previously been accepted,  the excess  taken and a new 
watch ordered. Whist I appreciate that the rejection came shortly  after the claim was 
accepted (six days) Amtrust didnt go over the evidence with Mr H to establish whether  the 
leaving of the watch was accidental or deliberate. When  Mr H first called to make  a claim he 
was asked to report  it online   he said hed woken up and couldnt find it. He later explained 
Ref: DRN99350972that hed taken the watch off the night  before  and had gone out for a while. He went  to bed 
then couldnt find it when he woke up next morning.
So Amtrust had two different opinions as to the loss. I think  that its overturning of that first 
opinion without further evidence or giving Mr H an opportunity to explain the circumstances 
further was unfair. I think its too late to do that now, so Amtrust should now settle the claim 
in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I further agree with the adjudicator that Mr H was caused  inconvenience by Amtrusts actions 
and it should pay £50 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Amtrust Europe  Limited to:
settle Mr Hs claim for his watch subject to the remaining  terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
pay Mr H £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935097