K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Rutland Investment Managers  wrongly advised him to transfer the 
benefits from his occupational  pension  scheme (OPS) to a section 32 policy. 
background
In 2000/2001 a financial adviser from Rutland  Investment  Managers  advised Mr W to 
transfer the benefits he had accrued in a defined benefit OPS to a section 32 buy-out plan. 
The transfer value  was approximately £40,500. It was transferred in February  2001  and 
invested in a range of different funds. 
In May 2018  Mr W wanted  to access his pension. However he was told this wasnt possible 
as there  were insufficient funds to cover  the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) liability  
that the section  32 was bound to pay when Mr W reached aged 65. The transfer value of the 
plan was £88,126. But the cost of securing the GMP was £97,531. This meant it wasnt  
possible for Mr W to draw  the benefits from it. Mr W was in his mid-fifties  at the time.
Mr W contacted  us about his complaint in June  2018  and we passed it onto the firm. Rutland  
Investment Managers didnt respond  to the complaint and it was referred to us to investigate.
One of our investigators  considered the matter. She said Mr W had accrued over 20 years of 
service in his OPS. So the pension transferred was likely to have made up the majority of his 
pension at retirement. Although Mr W had indicated that he was willing to take a medium 
degree of risk at the time of the sale, his circumstances were such that he had very little in 
the way of other assets to support him at retirement.  
The critical yield required on the transfer value to match the benefits from the former scheme 
was 6.5%.  The investigator said this was close to the middle  rate of 7% used in the 
regulators illustrations.  She said although he might achieve greater growth than this he 
could also get less. 
Although the section  32 plan guaranteed to provide the GMP, this represented less than half 
of his pension.  The investigator said she didnt think Mr W had the capacity to take the level 
of risk that the transfer presented, and he could have remained with his existing plan and not 
be exposed to such risks. The investigator  said she thought the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator sent her assessment to the firm. However she didnt receive  a response 
despite sending  a number of reminders to the e-mail  and postal addresses we held for it. 
She wrote/e-mailed explaining the case would be passed to an ombudsman to make  a final 
decision. However again no response was received from the firm despite her sending  further 
requests for a response. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator that the complaint  should be upheld,  and largely for the same 
reasons.
Ref: DRN96855722Mr Ws OPS was winding-up and the scheme trustees had secured the benefits  in full 
through a deferred annuity  with a well-known pension provider. However there was also the 
option to take a transfer value and following  advice  from Rutland Investment  Managers this 
what Mr W did; transferring to a section 32 plan.
The pension payable through the benefits secured by the OPS trustees was just over 
£10,000 a year. In essence,  Mr W was swapping this largely  guaranteed  level of income  with 
the benefits from the section 32 plan which depended on investment performance  to 
retirement date and potentially the annuity rates prevailing when the pension  was taken.
 
The £10,000  a year pension payable had Mr W not transferred away from the scheme was a 
significant pension.  He could have relied  on it to help maintain his standard of living  when he 
got to retirement.  When charges were  taken into account he would have needed  an average 
return of over 7% a year until retirement  date in order to improve  on the benefits  he would 
otherwise have received in order to make  the transfer worthwhile. At the time his income 
was about £22,000; this was his only pension; he had little by way of savings or investments 
and, like the investigator, I dont think he had the capacity  to accept the risks presented by 
the transaction. Mr W was putting a significant  income at considerable risk with nothing to 
fall back on in the event that the risks went against  him.
Accordingly, taking  everything into account, I dont think that Mr W had the capacity to 
accept the risks that the transfer  presented and Im not persuaded that the advice was 
suitable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My aim in awarding compensation is to put Mr W, as far as possible, back  into the position 
he would  now be in but for the unsuitable  advice  given by Rutland  Investment Managers. I 
consider Mr W would have kept the benefits bought out in full through  the deferred annuity  if 
hed been given suitable advice.
I therefore order Rutland Investment Managers  to undertake a redress calculation  in line with 
the pension review methodology, as updated  by the Financial  Conduct Authority in October 
2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Rutland Investment  Managers may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history  to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on Mr 
Ws SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN96855723If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income 
tax rate in retirement  which I have presumed to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction  of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Rutland Investment  Managers receives  notification  of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes Rutland Investment Managers  to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90-day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont  apply. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9685572