K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that his credit card was declined by Santander UK Plc (Santander) while he 
was abroad. He wants an explanation for why that happened.
background
Mr J was abroad and had used his credit  card successfully a number of times.  On the fifth 
occasion he used  the card it was declined. However, when it was re-presented a few 
minutes later the transaction went through. 
The next day Mr J contacted Santander for an explanation as to why his card had been  
declined. He spoke  with various people  and it was explained to him that the transaction was 
first declined due a possible fraud. Santander explained generically why a card might be 
declined due to suspected  fraud, but Mr J wanted  Santander to give him the reason his 
transaction was initially  declined.  He said he wasnt happy with the service hed had.
Santander wrote to Mr J outlining why a card could be declined. It explained that these were 
routine procedures designed  to protect  customers accounts. Santander also said it had 
dealt with Mr Js enquiry correctly and within  a reasonable timeframe. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Js complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said Santander was within its rights to decline a transaction if it had concerns about it, and it 
had a duty of care to protect  its customers and their money. 
Mr J said he still hadnt received the straightforward explanation he asked for. He believed 
Santander was being evasive about  its systems  and hadnt provided him with good customer 
service. As no resolution could be found the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that a number of successful transactions went through Mr Js account  shortly after 
he arrived abroad, including the one thats  the subject of this complaint. Ive also seen  a 
screenshot showing that this transaction was declined in the first instance before being 
accepted at the second attempt shortly  afterwards. So Im satisfied Mr J was able to 
complete his purchase and hasnt lost out financially as a result.
Santander, like most  banks, uses automated triggers on its systems to help protect  
customers accounts and cards from fraud. On this occasion Santanders  system  briefly 
identified a possible issue with Mr Js credit  card.
Considering Mr J was abroad and using a merchant he wouldnt have used before it doesnt  
seem unreasonable to me for Santanders  system to have a detected a potential  issue. 
Santander said that because it was able to locate Mr J using  his phone it was able to send 
him a text to confirm  it knew where he was and that he could continue to make transactions 
without any issue, which is what then happened. I dont think  it was wrong for Santander to 
take that course of action  to monitor his account  for any potential issues while  he was 
abroad. Indeed I consider  this to be good  banking practice.
Ref: DRN92932402I know Mr J thinks  there  must be a specific reason for why Santander  declined  the first 
transaction and Im have some sympathy for his position. But I cant say Santander has done 
anything wrong  here. What I would expect Santander to have done is to investigate the 
matter and try to give Mr J an answer. And I think it has - but it cannot pinpoint  the exact 
reason for the card being declined. I note there is a suggestion that the card terminal tried to 
read the magnetic strip instead of the chip which resulted in the problem. And that would 
seem a reasonable explanation to me although Santander is unable to confirm that 
especially as the fraud  triggers  it uses are commercially  sensitive  so I wouldnt expect 
Santander to give precise information about how its systems work. I appreciate  Mr J doesnt 
accept this explanation is specific enough,  but Im satisfied its not possible to be any more  
specific, and Santander has confirmed there  are numerous reasons why a card might be 
declined. So I wont be asking Santander  to do anymore. 
Ultimately here I think it was reasonable for Santanders system to highlight  this transaction, 
based on the circumstances at the time. Ive seen Santanders terms and conditions for 
credit cards, which says we may refuse  to carry out a transaction  ifwe suspect fraud or 
that carrying out a transaction may result in increased credit risk . It was for Mr Js own 
credit card protection that it happened so I dont think hes been  caused any inconvenience.  
And as the transaction did subsequently go through a minute later Mr J hasnt suffered any 
financial loss either. 
Mr J has also said that Santander  didnt deal with his complaint properly when he called. Ive 
listened to the calls,  and I know Mr J has heard them as well. But I cant agree  that 
Santander didnt  deal with his complaint properly. I know Mr J wanted  an explanation from 
the people he spoke to, and Ive heard how they attempted to do that. But Mr J wanted an 
explanation they were  unable to provide during those calls, and overall Im satisfied 
Santander didnt  provide  Mr J with incorrect information or poor customer service.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against  Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9293240