K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  that an adviser from National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest ) mis-
sold protection policies to them alongside  their mortgage lending  in 2005 and 2007.
In summary,  they say NatWest said the policies  were  a condition of the lending,  but they 
were not required  or affordable. Further, the policy applications  had factual inaccuracies.  
To resolve  their complaint, Mr and Mrs Y want their policy premiums to be refunded, with 
interest. 
background
Mr and Mrs Y first complained to NatWest in January 2019 about the sale of both protection  
policies. The second policy had reached  the end of its term in March 2018. They explained 
how:
they were pressured  into taking out insurance  they didnt need to secure  their 
mortgage lending;
they didnt require  cover including critical illness benefit;
the inclusion of critical illness cover made the premiums  unaffordable for them  and 
as a result  they remained overdrawn  since 2005;
they have now secured life cover  elsewhere at a much cheaper price;
in 2007 they wanted to cancel their policy, but instead were sold another policy  as by 
this time,  smokers rates didnt apply for Mrs Y;
the adviser failed  to properly record Mrs Ys smoking status on the first policy  
instead noting Mr Y was a smoker, when he had never smoked;
they felt the policies would have been  unsuitable  for them  in any event as they were 
self-employed.  
Mrs Y brought their complaint to this service  in May 2019, as NatWest hadnt  issued  any 
reply to them.  
On 15 May 2019, NatWest issued a response to the complaint.  It said it felt the 
recommendations were  both reasonable, as the proposed protection matched the mortgage 
term and type. The recommendations were also within Mr and Mrs Ys recorded budget. 
In terms of the pressure  Mr and Mrs Y had said they were under, NatWest  disagreed.  It 
noted that theyd obtained  their mortgage  elsewhere, and so the advice was not contingent 
on the mortgage lending. 
Mr and Mrs Y said they felt NatWest had doctored their paperwork. They confirmed their 
mortgage lending  was actually on a capital  repayment basis, not interest-only  as suggested 
by NatWest. They felt this was proof the adviser  had simply pushed  them  into taking out the 
insurance without  any proper consideration for their actual circumstances. For example, they 
had not been told that they could have  secured cover significantly cheaper elsewhere.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but did not think  it should succeed. 
She said that though she could not be certain on what was said on both occasions,  she felt 
both sales were reasonable.  That was because she felt the recommendations were suitable, 
and based on Mr and Mrs Ys disposable income.   
Ref: DRN92741322The paperwork expressly recorded the recommendations  and, in the case  of the later sale,  
that Mr Y had stopped smoking  yet Mr and Mrs Y did not correct the adviser. Though she 
couldnt account for why some discrepancies were on the documentation, she noted  copies 
were sent to Mr and Mrs Ys address  and if they had not received  paperwork, they could  
have chased NatWest for it. 
Mrs Y said she and Mr Y disagreed with the outcome reached  by the investigator. She asked 
for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She also made  some  further  points for 
consideration. In summary, she said:
her parents  have  particularly high financial reserves and would provide for her and 
her family  in the event she or Mr Y passed away;
the business she and Mr Y have generates significant profit and therefore the 
insurance was unnecessary;
the business could  survive if one of them fell ill;
nonetheless, the policy premiums left Mrs Y overdrawn  (the payments were taken 
from her account each month);
the money spent  on policy premiums  would have been put to better use by being put 
into a savings  account for her children;
they didnt receive the 2005 or 2007 paperwork,  but eventually  the 2005  paperwork 
was received after she chased  it  however, NatWests bank  manager  said he would 
alter the errors and didnt;
she does have  information from the time of the sale in storage but cannot retrieve  it;
they could never have  claimed  on the critical illness cover because  of their self-
employed status;
when one of the advisers left NatWest  in 2009,  he contacted  Mrs Y and said he could 
source their cover for a cheaper  price, but they didnt leave as they wished to remain  
loyal to NatWest.   
NatWest had nothing  else to add. The complaint has now been passed  to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Y say that in 2005 they wished  to secure mortgage lending with NatWest, but 
the branch manager they met told them that wasnt possible. Instead, he referred them to 
another lender but explained theyd need to take out insurance through NatWest. Mrs Y says 
that because they were  both self-employed, they struggled to obtain mortgage lending.  
Because of this, they went along  with the suggestion  made  by NatWest.  
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Ys recollection. However,  whilst  this evidence is 
something I take into account,  I must  weigh up NatWests version  of events and any other 
evidence such as contemporaneous documentation  from the time of the sale.  Where there is 
conflicting evidence,  I have concluded  what I believe is most likely, on the balance  of
probabilities.
Having done so, I cannot conclude that Mr and Mrs Y were  forced  or pressured  into taking 
out a protection policy on either  occasion.  Though Mrs Y says now that the branch manager  
inferred that they had to have the cover,  it is clear  that the insurance policies were 
Ref: DRN92741323unconnected to the mortgage lending. This is because NatWest didnt provide the mortgage, 
and it had no connection with the alternative  lender.  
Ive also looked  carefully at the documentation  from each sale. Specifically, Mr and Mrs Y 
signed protection declarations confirming that the information they had given was accurate. 
That documentation  says on commencement of the contract, the first applicant  will receive  a 
cancellation notice,  which gives  the applicant the right to cancel the contract if any applicant  
wishes. Details of your cancellation rights are in the Key Features document. 
The insurer  then wrote directly to Mr and Mrs Y with the offer of insurance  and the answers 
theyd given regarding  their medical  history. That letter set out that if you do not wish to 
proceed, please let us know within 7 days of the date of this letter.  
I realise Mrs Y says that none of the paperwork relating to either sale was sent to them after 
the 2005 or 2007 advice.  But, the declaration was signed in the presence of the adviser, and 
Mr and Mrs Y signed those as a statement  of accuracy. Further,  Mrs Y said that after some  
pressure she and Mr Y did in fact receive all the paperwork from 2005. 
I appreciate Mrs Y is unable to verify  what information was sent to her because she has the 
paperwork in storage. NatWest has been  able to supply the relevant documentation  and 
the information sent from both the adviser and the insurer were  all correctly addressed. Like 
our investigator, I believe this correspondence  was likely received. 
It follows that I believe Mr and Mrs Y knew or should  reasonably  have known that taking out 
a protection policy  following a recommendation from NatWest was not a condition of their 
mortgage. The two were entirely separate. The documentation  from the adviser and the 
insurer is clear  that Mr and Mrs Y were  not under any obligation  to take out the insurance.  
These issues aside, Mr and Mrs Y received advice and the advisers on each occasion had a 
responsibility to make  sure any recommendation was appropriate for their circumstances 
and requirements. 
Mrs Y feels  strongly that the proposed policies were not suitable for their circumstances. But 
I believe the recommendation was appropriate. The advisers on both occasions had 
recorded their mortgage amount, type and remaining term. Level  term life and critical illness  
cover for the same mortgage amount and term was therefore proposed.  
I know Mrs Y disputes the mortgage  was on an interest-only basis, but no evidence of the 
mortgage with the differing lender has been  provided. And, if this was still incorrect in 2007, 
she and Mr Y could have told the second  adviser about that  because by the time they met 
the adviser again to review their cover, they were in possession of the 2005  paperwork. And 
Mrs Y says they knew errors were present, because she told the branch manager  about 
them.   
Mr and Mrs Y had some life assurance in place for family protection,  but no policy in place to 
protect their mortgage liability. Ensuring there  is cover for a loan of this type is widely 
considered to be a prudent  step to take. Had either  Mr or Mrs Y died or fallen seriously ill 
with a listed critical illness during the policy term, a lump sum payment would be paid by the 
insurer. 
I have given some consideration to Mrs Ys point that she has been overdrawn since 2005 
and therefore  the policies  should never  have  been proposed. However,  this is not indicated  
Ref: DRN92741324by the wider evidence  and it conflicts  Mrs Ys argument regarding  the money available to her 
from her parents. 
The suitability reports from both occasions record enough disposable income to ensure the 
policies were affordable.  Again, if Mr and Mrs Y held such  concerns about cost, they could 
have raised this with the adviser in 2007.  I would certainly expect to see this if Mrs Y had 
spent two years being overdrawn because of the cost of the protection  policy.   
Even if I accept that the adviser  failed to properly record what  was told to him, Mr and Mrs Y 
knew their respective medical  histories.  They had a duty to tell the insurer the right medical 
information. In the 2005  paperwork that they did receive, the insurer explained  clearly  about 
the duty to disclose accurate information.  
I appreciate that by 2007, Mrs Y had stopped  smoking and there was a considerable cost 
saving in taking  out the replacement policy. However, I do not believe the error regarding  the 
smoker status being  written  as Mr Ys history  is the fault of NatWest such that I could say the 
policy shouldnt have  been recommended. 
I can see NatWest has explained  the difference between life and critical illness  assurance 
and payment protection insurance  (PPI),  so I wont repeat that here. However, it is worth 
reiterating that while the policies were in force, had Mr or Mrs Y needed to make a critical 
illness claim, they could  have  done  so irrespective of their employment  status.  The policies 
were set up to pay a lump  sum in the event they suffered from a critical illness listed  in the 
policy terms. Given Mr and Mrs Y had a joint business and dependent children, this is not an 
unreasonable proposal. 
I have seen nothing  to suggest Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances meant this recommendation 
was unsuitable  for them.  And I am mindful  that they have had the benefit  of the protection  
offered by the policies whilst they were in force. I therefore will not be proposing  to refund  
their premiums now.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, nor do I make any award.  That is because I believe NatWests  
advisers acted fairly in making recommendations to Mr and Mrs Y for protection policies in 
both 2005 and 2007. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9274132