K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a van that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited, trading as Peugeot Financial Services,  wasnt of satisfactory  
quality.
background
A new van was supplied to Mr M for his business  under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Peugeot Financial Services that he signed  in November 2016. About six months later he had 
issues with the vans gears, satnav,  radio  and DAB,  head unit and the handbrake  as well 
as other  issues. The van has been  taken to a number of dealers and garages for repairs but 
Mr M says that the issues with the gears and the head unit still havent been  fixed  properly. 
He complained to Peugeot Financial Services and says that he wants to reject the van but 
he needs to be kept mobile until he sources another van. It said that different works  were 
carried out each  time that the van was returned to the dealer and Mr M has had fair use from 
the van because  by July 2018  it had been driven  for nearly 88,000 miles. Mr M wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.  
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the van 
had been returned for repairs 15 times  within a year of being  supplied to Mr M - five of which 
related to gear problems. He thought that the types of problems the van experienced were, 
on the balance  of probability,  inherent  defects so the van wasnt of satisfactory quality  when 
it was supplied to Mr M. So he recommended  that Peugeot Financial  Services should cancel 
the agreement  and allow the van to be rejected  (but Mr M could keep the van until he can 
source another one).  He also recommended  that it should: refund the deposit (with  interest)  
and two monthly for the times that the van had been in for repair;  pay him £300 for the 
trouble and upset  that hes experienced; and remove  any adverse data about the agreement 
from his credit file.
Peugeot Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It says that it doesnt  wish to take back a van which has been  run into the 
ground with excessive mileage causing  accelerated fair wear  and tear and that its provided 
a timeline of events,  which clearly  shows that Mr M has had more  than fair usage of the van 
and covered extensive mileage. But it has offered to cover the cost of four months finance 
along with £500 for distress and inconvenience  or to take the van back  and offset  those 
amounts against  any loss it makes when it sells the van.
Mr M has declined that offer and says that the problems with the van arent wear and tear or 
due to the mileage  as they were present from the start and havent been  correctly diagnosed 
and rectified on numerous  occasions.  He says that hes only been offered around  £5,500  for 
part-exchanging the van so he doesn't believe that Peugeot Financial Services  valuation is 
correct. And he says he has no funds to purchase another  van and that would  be a massive  
loss from all the payments  to date. He says that the van shouldve  been rejected after the 
faults started.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94733552Peugeot Financial Services, as the supplier of the van, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality. Whether or not it was will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age, and mileage of the van and the price that was paid for it. The van that was 
supplied to Mr M was new and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it 
would be free from even  minor defects. Satisfactory  quality  also covers durability which 
means that the components within the van must be durable and last a reasonable amount of 
time  but exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number  of factors. 
The new van was supplied to Mr M in November 2016. It was returned to the dealer  for 
warranty repairs of issues with the handbrake, sat-nav and key the following month.  And it 
was returned again for warranty repairs in May and July 2017. Gearbox issues  caused the 
van to be returned  in October  2017 and the gearshaft and casing were replaced. Further  
warranty repairs were made in December 2017  and February, April (twice), and July 2017 
before further  gearbox issues were repaired in October 2018. That required further 
replacement parts (only  12 months  after the gearshaft had been replaced) and a 
replacement clutch.  But Mr M returned  the van later that month  and in December 2018 
because of ongoing issues with the vans gears.  
So the van had required warranty  repairs twelve times  in little over two years and had also 
been repaired on other occasions. I dont  consider  it to be reasonable to expect a new van to 
have so many issues within that time frame. Mr M is clearly a high mileage driver and in May 
2019 he said that the van had been  driven for 127,476 miles  and in January 2020 he said 
that its mileage was 148,057  miles.  But I consider that the need for so many warranty  repairs  
shows that the van wasnt as durable  as it was reasonable  for Mr M to expect it to be. So I 
find that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to him. And I consider 
that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr M to reject  the van. Im not 
persuaded that the high mileage is enough to make  rejection of the van unfair or 
unreasonable.
Mr M says that he needs to keep the van for his business until hes sourced a replacement.  
He has four weeks to accept my decision (if he chooses to do so) and I consider that its 
reasonable to expect  that he should  be able to arrange a replacement  van within that time.  
So I find that Peugeot  Financial Services  should end the agreement and arrange to collect 
the van from Mr M. 
The agreement shows that Mr M made  an advance payment  of £3,417  for the van  which 
has been confirmed  by Peugeot Financial Services. I find that Peugeot Financial Services  
should refund that advance payment to him (with  interest). And I agree with the adjudicators 
recommendation that it would be fair and reasonable for Peugeot Financial Services  to 
refund two monthly payments  to Mr M to compensate him for the times that hes had to take 
the van for repairs. 
Mr M says that his payments are up to date  other than one missed payment in December 
2019 - but hes received a default notice from Peugeot Financial  Services. I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Peugeot Financial Services  to deduct any arrears from the 
refund of the advance payment referred  to above. I find that it should then remove  any 
adverse information  about the agreement from Mr Ms credit  file.
Mr M has had considerable use from the van and, other than the refunds referred to above, I 
consider it to be fair and reasonable for Peugeot  Financial Services to keep  the monthly 
payments that hes made under the agreement as payment for that use. These events will 
have caused Mr M considerable distress and inconvenience. And I find that it would be fair 
Ref: DRN94733553and reasonable for Peugeot Financial Services to also pay him £300 to compensate him for 
that distress and inconvenience.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. And I order  PSA Finance 
UK Limited,  trading as Peugeot Financial Services, to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the van to be collected from 
Mr M  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr M the advance payment  of £3,417  that he made  for the van (after 
deducting any arrears  owed by Mr M). 
3.Pay interest on the advance payment at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4.Refund to Mr M two of the monthly payments  that hes made  under the agreement to 
compensate him for the times that hes had to take the van for repairs.
5.Remove any adverse  information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file. 
6.Pay £300 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Peugeot Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 3 above. Peugeot Financial Services must give Mr M a certificate  
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9473355