K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) hasnt upheld his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s75) or his chargeback  request.
 
background
Mr B booked accommodation through an on line marketplace for seven people.  The 
advertisement said extra  people: no charge  but when Mr B later wanted to include  his 
niece he was told she couldnt stay there and the family incurred costs paying for alternative 
accommodation. 
Hed paid for the accommodation using his Amex credit card, so he contacted  them to make 
a claim to reimburse this additional expense. He said that. As the provider of credit, they 
were jointly liable. Mr B claimed  the advert had been misleading and hed been led to believe 
more people could  be accommodated at no additional charge.
Amex considered whether they could  apply a chargeback and refund  Mr Bs money because 
the supplier was in breach of their contract or whether they could refund Mr Bs money  under 
s75. But they rejected both options as they said the merchant had provided  information to 
show the contract had been satisfied and theyd acted within  the terms of the contract. 
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at the evidence  but 
she didnt think Amex  had done  anything wrong.  She explained that, as the merchant had 
disputed the chargeback request from Amex  and explained that the contract had been 
supplied, she couldnt say Amex had done anything wrong. She went on to consider whether 
a s75 claim should  have been  successful  but she thought there hadnt been a breach of 
contract as the contract was for seven people and had been complied with. So she then 
thought about whether there had been a misrepresentation of the facts.  But in this instance 
the merchant  had not clarified the occupancy well enough and she didnt think it would be 
reasonable to hold Amex responsible. She thought that, when the advert was taken as a 
whole, it was clear the accommodation was for seven  people and she went on to explain that 
whilst some properties would charge for each person up to that maximum:  that wasnt  the 
case here. So she didnt  think  Amex needed to take any additional action.
But Mr B did and he therefore asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B and I can see this has been a frustrating incident for him, but 
Im afraid I dont think he has a valid claim under either s75 or the chargeback scheme.  
Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN92369522board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme or a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
was there  a breach of contract?
I dont think there was here. Whilst the advertisement may have been  misleading (Ill come 
to that later). I think what Mr B was paying for was clear. The accommodation listed on the 
invoice was for seven  people  and was made available for the days  Mr B booked  it, and at 
the expected price.
was there  a misrepresentation?
If a consumer is told something that is wrong  and they rely on this when making a booking  
and wouldnt  have  proceeded with the purchase if that false  information  hadnt been 
supplied, then they may have a claim for misrepresentation. If that were  the case I would ask 
Amex to take some further action.
But here Mr B has told us that:
at that point (when he made the booking)  I had no intention to bring an additional guest
So if the false information, which in this case is the statement that said extra people:  no 
charge, was not made I am satisfied that Mr B wouldve  made the booking anyway: he 
would have proceeded as at that point he didnt have a need for an eighth occupant. So I 
cant say he lost out as a result of the merchants confusing statement.
I dont think it would  be fair to hold Amex responsible for the lack of clarity in the merchants 
booking system. But whilst I dont  think Amex is responsible for the resolution of this matter 
Mr B may still pursue the issue  directly  with the merchant or through the courts.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9236952