1complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1976 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Nationwide, at the time they were not sold a 
PPI policy.
In 1990 Mr and Mrs B took out a further  advance on their mortgage. At the same time an 
application form for a PPI was completed  but the policy  was not set up.
In 1991 Mr and Mrs B took another further advance, at the same time an application  for a PPI 
policy. Again  the policy was not set up. 
In 1993 Nationwide noticed  that the policy had not been put in place and contacted Mr and   
Mrs B. Nationwide said it would put the policy in place as if it had been set up from March  
1991. 
Mr and Mrs B began paying premiums on the policy from March 1993.
The PPI policy was cancelled in 2004
Mr and Mrs B complained to Nationwide  about the sale of the PPI. Nationwide said the policy 
wasnt mis-sold,  but it offered Mr and Mrs B £385.75  in respect of undisclosed commission.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree 
with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
I can from the evidence  theyve sent in that Mr and Mrs B have raised  several issues over the 
administration of their mortgage  and also the sale of a life insurance policy. In this decision I 
am only looking at the sale of the PPI policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints about 
the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case. 
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide has shown  us two application  forms for the further advances. Both have been 
signed by Mr and Mrs B. The first is dated  October 1990.  The PPI section in this application 
form has some alterations.  The question  asking if PPI is required  has been changed from a 
no to a yes. While the question asking if PPI is already in place has also been changed from 
a yes to a no. But I note that no PPI policy was put in place at this time.
The second  further advance application form is dated February 1991. This form has also been 
completed with the yes box ticked to accept the PPI. From  the handwriting this form appears 
to have been completed by two different people. There is also a reference  that the mortgage 
application fee was waived because  of previous errors that were made.
Ref: DRN92502452Ive thought about this and while I accept its possible the forms could have  been  altered 
without Mr and Mrs Bs consent, I note that on the 1991 form the box to decline PPI hasnt  
been ticked and then crossed  out. So I think its more likely  the form was completed they way it 
was with Mr and Mrs Bs knowledge and consent. 
I see the PPI wasnt set up properly until 1993.  And Mr and Mrs B wouldve been aware by that 
time that it wasnt something  they had to have. And I also have to take into account that the 
policy continued to be in force until 2004.
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs B 
as being optional and they chose to take it out.
I cant be sure exactly what  was information was given to Mr and Mr B during the sale of the 
PPI. Its possible the information  Nationwide gave  them about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  
But I think Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. So it wouldve been  useful for 
him if something went wrong.
The cover was taken  out for Mr B only. I note Mrs B worked in the public sector  and enjoyed  
good sick pay benefits. Mr B has told us hed only get sick pay for less than three months if he 
became too unwell to work.  The PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs B couldve paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 24 months for any one claim.  So the decision to put the cover  in Mr Bs name 
seems correct. And I think  Mr B wouldve found the policy useful if he became too unwell to 
work, particularly if he couldnt work for a prolonged period.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs B off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN92502453Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9250245