K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) refused to write  off his 
debts and has harassed him for payment. 
background
Mr C has two accounts with SDFC, one opened in December 2009 and the other in 
December 2010.  In May 2018 he wrote to SDFC to ask that it write off the debts which  
amounted to over £700. He says that he was harassed for payment even when he asked for 
forbearance. SDFC didnt  agree to write  off the debts and suggested he enter into a payment 
plan. 
The business says it received no response to that letter so it wrote again.  Mr C responded 
with further in formation about  his situation  and the business agreed to charge off the debts. 
This means  that no further interest  or charges  will be applied  and it will not seek payment  of 
the debts or sell them to a debt collection agency.  It explained that any payments  made  by 
Mr C would be accepted.  
Mr Cs complaint was considered by our adjudicators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He 
thought the business  had responded to Mr Cs situation in a positive and sympathetic 
manner by stopping  interest and charges and agreeing not to pursue either debt. He also 
said that SDFC had explained that it was obliged to notify customers  of their debts, but since 
Mr C had requested no contact by phone it had stopped calling him. 
Mr C didnt agree and said that he had been  facing difficult circumstances in recent years 
and for the last two years or so he had struggled to cope and to bring  up his children on his 
own. He said he had no way of ever paying  off the debts.  He said the matter  was having a 
detrimental effect on him. He also said that he had told SDFC on many  occasions that he 
was struggling, but he had been ignored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr C and I can see from his testimony and the evidence  he has 
submitted that he has been facing a very difficult time in recent  years. I would expect any 
financial business to respond to him in a sympathetic and positive manner. I consider SDFC 
to have done so.
In response to his initial letter when it suggested a payment plan it also asked for further 
information about his circumstances. When this was received it took the decision not to seek  
to collect the money owed  and not to sell the debt to an agency which might seek 
repayment. In essence  it has said you cant pay us so we wont pursue you for the money.  
But it has left a window  open so that if Mr Cs circumstances  change he can repay the debts. 
I appreciate that Mr C says that he will never be able to repay the debts and if that is the 
case then he will not have  to do so. However,  it is possible  that he may encounter  some  
good fortune and if that occurs I am sure he would  wish to clear the debts.
However, for now, and while his circumstances remain as they are he has no need to make  
any payment. As for the matter of harassment  I can appreciate how Mr C feels, but the 
Ref: DRN97442302business was seeking to collect money  it was owed. Once it was told of his circumstances it 
agreed to stop calls.  I have noted that Mr C says he has told call handlers of his situation 
previously, but I cannot say that the business didnt act appropriately without evidence  to 
support the claim. Therefore, I do not consider I can uphold the complaint, but I trust Mr C is 
reassured that he need not be troubled  by the debts  while his circumstances prevent him 
from paying them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
23 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9744230