K820x#14Complaint
Ms J complains that fraudsters have gained access to her accounts with 
Nationwide Building Society and standing  orders  shes  said up havent 
been paid correctly.  Shes also unhappy Nationwide havent  updated  her 
account details  properly or released funds which are due to her. And 
shed like these refunded. 
Background
Ms J has three  bank  accounts with Nationwide. 
In 2018 Ms J contacted  our service and raised a number of concerns  
about her accounts with Nationwide. 
In summary Ms J said that:
Nationwide were holding on to her money in a suspense account.
Shed received a high number of replacement cards in recent 
years which she didnt order.  
The standing orders set up on her account didnt credit.
There are people listed on her account who she isnt aware of.
Her account shows up in her late mothers name.
Nationwide failed to update her address; and 
Shes never registered for online  banking.  
Nationwide looked into Ms Js complaint and said that looking at Ms Js 
three accounts there had never been any regular payments  set up. And 
Ms J had referred to standing orders being set up on one of her 
accounts in 2011, but this account wasnt open at that time.   
Our investigator looked into Ms Js complaint. But, and I appreciate this 
wasnt the outcome Ms J was looking for, concluded that Nationwide 
didnt need to do anything further here. In summary our investigator said:
Ms J has three  open accounts with Nationwide, all of which had 
funds available to Ms J in November 2018.
The evidence doesnt indicate the debit cards were ordered  by a 
third party. 
Theres no record of any standing orders set up on Ms Js 
accounts or a third party being  added without  authorisation. 
Ref: DRN96642072On balance it seems unlikely a fraudster could have gained 
enough details to register for Ms Js online banking. 
Ms Js current  address was recorded on bank statements from 
2008 onwards.  
Ms J didnt accept our investigators view and said that because of the 
family matters that were taking place  at the time, she only found out 
about the debit cards in 2018  when  she was looking  through her 
Mothers things. Her personal details  had been  lost in 2007  through a 
government agency,  and her mobile phone  was out of her possession 
on two occasions  therefore anybody would have been  able to obtain  her 
identification details  and pass  security. Ms J explained that Nationwide 
told her that her cards were cloned  and her money was in a holding bay. 
Mr J also provided evidence of statements  showing standing orders  
leaving her Nationwide  account. 
Our investigator reviewed Ms Js comments  but didnt  change her 
opinion. In summary she explained  that Ms Js statements  dont show  
any funds are being  held by Nationwide  and if Ms J hadnt  received  the 
cards she claims she wouldnt have been able to use the debit card in 
her possession. Our investigator added they were surprised Ms J didnt 
notice for such  a long period  of time considering Ms J had explained this 
was her main current account.  
On reviewing the statements, our investigator agreed that standing 
orders had been made from Ms Js account, but explained she couldnt 
hold Nationwide liable if they didnt arrive as expected. And this would 
be something Ms J needs to take up with the recipient banks. 
Ms J didnt accept our investigators view  and made a number of 
points in response. I wont detail all of Ms Js points,  but in summary she 
explained that she hadnt given  access  to her accounts to anyone, her 
husband used to work in finance  and she was advised  by Nationwide 
that she would be refunded her money within seven days.  
As Ms J didnt accept  our investigators view its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN96642073My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint. And in 
doing so Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator for 
broadly the same reasons, which I appreciate will come  as disappointing 
news. Ill explain why below.
Withholding of funds:
Ms Js explained that she believes Nationwide have been withholding 
her funds and wont release these to her. Ms J has three open accounts  
with Nationwide  and at the time of her complaint to the bank in 2018  I 
can see that all three accounts have balances available to Ms J  Ive 
not seen any evidence that Ms J couldnt withdraw these. Ms J 
explained that a member of Nationwide  staff informed her that her 
money was in a holding bay  but Ive not seen any evidence to support  
this. Overall, I cant conclude  Nationwide are holding on to Ms Js funds.  
Receiving new cards and Online banking: 
Ms Js unhappy that shes received  a number of replacement  cards for 
her accounts  which  she didnt  order. Ive looked at the evidence provide  
by Nationwide and I can see a high number of cards were ordered for 
two of Ms Js accounts. One of the two accounts was a joint account 
with Ms Js Mother. I can see that according to the records  these  cards 
were ordered  for a variety of reasons including the previous  card being 
lost or stolen. 
Ive thought about how a third party  could have  ordered the cards  
without Ms Js knowledge or consent. Nationwide have explained  that to 
re-order a new card an individual  would need  to pass security. This 
means that anybody claiming to be Ms J would have needed  to know  a 
significant amount  of detail  about her. Ive followed  the same  thought 
process for Ms Js online banking, which Ms Js disputing  that she 
carried out the initial registration for, but to register for online  banking a 
fraudster would  also need a substantial amount  of information  about 
Ms J. Plus Nationwide have advised  that a fraudster would  also have 
needed access to either Ms Js email  address or phone number to 
Ref: DRN96642074receive a code. Nationwide have shown  that they hold the same mobile 
number and email  address that Ms Js shared with our service. Ms J has 
provided a number of explanations for how her details could  have been 
lost. But, Ive not seen any evidence that money  was transferred  out of 
Ms Js account  which is what  Id expect  if a fraudster did gain access 
to Ms Js online banking. And, on balance,  I think  its more likely that 
Ms J has forgotten that she did so. 
Ive also thought about the length of time before Ms J raised  her 
concerns about the cards. Firstly, the evidence indicates the cards would 
have been  sent to Ms Js home address   I appreciate  she explained 
she was caring for her Mother at the time,  but considering the volume  of 
cards shes claiming  she didnt notice, I still find it unlikely that they 
werent noticed sooner. And secondly, considering as Ms Js explained 
this was her main account, that she was able to use her debit card 
throughout this time. Nationwide have explained that once a card is 
reported as lost or stolen   which was the case most  of the time when  
the cards were ordered  the card would  be cancelled immediately.  This 
means Ms Js debit card would have stopped working, and Id have 
expected her to notice and contact the bank. 
Standing Orders:
Ms Js provided evidence that she had standing  orders  leaving her 
accounts with Nationwide, but she explains they didnt credit the 
intended accounts. Ms J agrees  that she set up the orders   and 
therefore instructed  Nationwide to make the payments. Nationwide have 
a responsibility  to act on instructions  given by their customers. And Ive 
not seen any evidence that Nationwide  didnt process the payments  as 
Ms J directed. If the payments didnt credit the accounts Ms J expected,  
then this is something  thats best for Ms J to raise with the receiving 
banks. 
Account details:
Our investigators given  explanations for why Ms Js late mother 
appeared on her account statements until recently and other names 
were present. And I agree  with our investigators thoughts on this. I 
realise its likely distressing for Ms J to see her late Mothers name 
Ref: DRN96642075appearing on joint bank statements she has with Nationwide, when shes 
passed away,  but without Nationwide  being notified they wouldnt be 
aware of the need to remove  her from the account. Therefore I cant hold 
the bank responsible for this. 
Ive also considered Ms Js point about  her address  not being amended 
on her bank statements. But Im afraid I cant  agree with her here. I can 
see that Ms Js address  was changed to her current residence in 2008. 
Therefore I cant  see any evidence her address wasnt updated. 
I realise this will be disappointing and frustrating to Ms J but I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to conclude a fraudster has gained  access to 
her accounts  or that Nationwide are holding on to her funds. Therefore, I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision  is I dont uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
Ms J to accept or reject my decision  before 16 January  2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9664207