K820x#14complaint
Ms L has complained  about the service  she received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Ms L has been helped in bringing this complaint by Mr W, but for ease Ill refer to all actions 
and comments as being those of Ms L. 
background
Ms L claimed on her policy after her car was vandalised  or hit by another car while she 
wasnt in it. When reporting  the claim she was unhappy to find out that the policy didnt 
provide additional cover for vandalism or criminal activity, as she was aware other policies 
did. That meant the claim would be recorded as a fault claim. 
Ms L complained to UKI. She said the renewal  policy documents  werent clear that there 
wasnt an additional vandalism promise, or that the courtesy car would only be provided by 
UKIs approved repairer while her car was being repaired.
UKI arranged for its breakdown service  to move her car to its approved repairer via a 
storage facility. Ms L couldnt initially find out where  her car was and received a letter  that 
had a different  repairers address on. She was also unhappy when she contacted  the 
repairer and found  that theyd started to work on her car but couldnt  give her full details of 
what was happening.  She was also unhappy  with how the garage spoke to her. 
Ms L complained to UKI. In addition to the points above she said it had taken too long for 
UKIs breakdown service  to pick up her car. And that she hadnt been given the option to use 
her own garage.  UKI said it had picked up the car on the same  date so didnt think  there had 
been a delay, but said Ms L could take the car to her own garage if she preferred.  It said she 
wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy  car unless her own garage provided  one. 
UKI accepted its service  wasnt  as good  as it would expect and offered her £100 
compensation for having to call and email  to find out what  was happening. Ms L didnt think  
this was sufficient  and brought her complaint to us. She thought  the policy had been mis-
sold to her at renewal as it wasnt clear  and in any event she hadnt received the policy  
documents each  year.  She was also unhappy  that shed cancelled her policy  after the claim 
and not received a refund.  She didnt  think  she should have to pay the remainder  of the 
premium as she said the policy was unfair and UKI provided poor standards  of service. She 
was also unhappy  that UKIs call handler told her she couldnt  claim through  the Motors 
Insurance Bureau (MIB)  and thought  this was incorrect.  
Our investigator looked into Ms Ls complaint and thought UKIs offer of £100 was fair and 
reasonable to make  up for what had gone wrong.  He agreed some  parts  of the service  could 
have been better but thought UKI had dealt  with the claim in line with its terms and 
conditions. And he didnt think UKI had provided  misleading information at renewal. 
Ms L didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Before reaching my final 
decision our investigator let Ms L know that our service had spoken to MIB and the 
information UKIs call handler had provided about that seemed to be right.  Our investigator 
also let Ms L know he thought it was fair and reasonable for UKI to charge her the full annual  
premium as shed claimed on the policy and it was in line with the terms and conditions.  
Ref: DRN93080342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has made a number  of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint, Ive focused  on what I 
consider to be at the heart of the matter  rather than commenting on every  issue in turn. This 
isnt intended  as a discourtesy to Ms L. Rather it reflects the informal  nature of our service, 
the remit of the Financial  Ombudsman Service and my role in it. Ive considered the main 
points of this complaint  in turn. I understand Ms L has also complained  about  her insurance 
premium and thats been dealt with separately. 
choice of garage and repairs
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ls policy give UKI the option  to: repair or pay to repair  the 
damage; replace whats been  lost; or make  a monetary settlement.   
Ive listened to the call and Ms L confirmed that she wanted the claim to go ahead. That 
means she was agreeing  to UKI acting under the terms  of its policy.  I can see from the 
recovery services  job sheet that the car was moved on the same  day as the accident so I 
dont think there was an unreasonable delay. The car was held in storage for a couple  of 
days before  being  moved to the repairer  and Ms L didnt know  where it was. I agree this 
would have been distressing but during the call UKI did tell her it would be moved  to storage 
in the first instance  if there was nowhere  else to put it over the weekend.  I do however think  
it was confusing for UKI to provide the address of a repair centre  in its letter  that wasnt the 
repairer it was sending the car to. 
As Ms L had agreed to go ahead with the claim I dont think  it was unreasonable  for UKI to 
ultimately move her car to its approved repairer. UKI said the repairer  had only removed the 
broken glass and carried out a diagnostic before Ms L asked for her car to be moved to a 
garage of her choice.  It would seem reasonable for the repairer to look into what needed  
repairing once the car was at the garage, so I dont think  UKI did anything  wrong  here. 
I understand Ms L is unhappy that UKI didnt  offer her the choice to use her own garage.  But 
dont find it unusual that UKI arranged for its approved repairer to carry out the work  as that 
would be the usual process. Ms L didnt ask if she was able to use her own garage,  so I 
wouldnt expect UKI to have discussed  it with her as an option. However Im pleased to see 
UKI agreed  to this when Ms L asked and arranged for the car to be moved there. 
UKI said Ms L asked  for her car to be moved on 24 July and it moved her car on 26 July. It 
said its engineer  inspected the car on 2 August and approved repairs on the same day. It 
can take longer  for repairs to start when a policyholder  uses  their own garage as the insurer 
has to do more to approve  the repairs. I dont think there was an unreasonable delay here 
given that Ms L asked  to move the car. 
customer service
UKIs accepted Ms L made more phone calls and sent more  emails than she should  have 
needed to do. I think  UKI should compensate her for the unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience its caused and am satisfied the £100  its already offered is a fair and 
reasonable amount to make up for this. 
Ref: DRN93080343Ms L was unhappy UKIs call handler told her it was unlikely the MIB would be able to help in 
her circumstances. She said she was put off contacting MIB to claim following this advice. 
Ive contacted MIB and the information UKI gave to her on the phone seems  to be correct.  
However if Ms L believed  the information  she was given was wrong she had the option  of 
contacting MIB to claim if she wished. And Im not persuaded UKIs advice would have  
prevented her from doing this.
renewal documents  
UKI didnt  sell Ms Ls policy but has confirmed its responsible for sending out the renewal 
documents directly.  That means I cant consider what Ms L was told about a courtesy car 
when she bought the policy,  only what was available to her at renewal. UKI is required  to 
provide Ms L with information that is clear, accurate and not misleading. 
UKI hasnt  been  able to provide the exact renewal documents it sent to Ms L every year, 
although it sent the renewal documents from 2017. I have however seen screenshots 
showing the date the renewal invitations  were sent and accepted by Ms L so on balance Im 
persuaded UKI sent them.
UKI said the courtesy  car benefit has remained the same since  Ms L bought her policy  and 
would have been shown on her schedule.  Ive seen a copy  of the schedule  from 2017 and 
the courtesy car benefit  wasnt  included.
UKI said it didnt send the full policy documents each year if there  were  no changes, as the 
previous policy  booklet  still applied. It said the invitation for renewal set out any changes  to 
the policy. I havent seen anything to show that the courtesy car benefit has changed since  
Ms L bought  her policy. So Im not persuaded  that there was a change for UKI to highlight 
here. 
Id expect UKI to highlight  any significant or unusual terms  in the policy. While some  other  
policies might offer a vandalism promise, I dont find it significant or unusual  that UKIs 
policy doesnt. So I dont  think  its done anything wrong by not highlighting it. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest this part of the policy changed since  Ms L first bought  it so UKI 
wouldnt have needed to highlight it as a change.  
I appreciate Ms L feels misled by her renewal  documents but I havent  seen anything  to 
persuade me they contain misleading information.  
no refund  following the cancellation
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ls policy say that if she cancels  her policy  following a claim 
there wont be any refund of the premium. I dont find this unusual  and its a general principle 
of insurance that when  a claim is made  the policyholder has had the benefit of the policy. It 
was Ms Ls choice to cancel the policy after making a claim, instead of continuing with it until 
the policy lapsed. I havent seen  anything to persuade me the policy  is unfair or contains  
unfair contract terms. So Im not going to interfere with UKIs  decision that Ms L needs to pay 
the full annual premium.  
Overall, while  I accept  there are some  things UKI could have done better Im not going  to 
ask it to do any more  as its fairly compensated Ms L for those.
Ref: DRN93080344my final decision
I understand U K Insurance  Limited  has offered Ms L £100 compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience.  I conclude this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so my final 
decision is that U K Insurance Limited should  pay Ms L £100 if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9308034