K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund  a withdrawal he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
what happened
On 1 December  2018 at 13:55, Mr S bought petrol using  his card and PIN. At 17:11,  his card 
and PIN were used  to withdraw £220,  emptying his account.
Mr S checked his online banking at 16:16,  16:52, 16:54, 18:26, 18:28,  18:29, 20:42, and 
21:55. At 23:57,  Santander texted him to let him know his account  was overdrawn. The next 
day, Mr S checked his account at 01:01 and 11:22. At 11:26,  he called to report  the 
withdrawal, saying hed only just noticed something was wrong as his wallet  was missing.
Mr S said his card was kept in his wallet, and his card and wallet  were  both gone. He said 
hed been alone in his car most of that day and at the times involved.  There  was no one he 
suspected or could  think of who could have made the withdrawal without his permission. His 
PIN was the random  one the bank  gave him, he hadnt told it to anyone  apart from his parent 
 who he didnt suspect,  and it was not written down aside from in a hidden file on his 
secured phone, which no one else had access to.
Santander held Mr S liable for the payment in dispute. They couldnt see a likely way 
someone was able to take Mr Ss card and learn  his PIN without his permission.
Mr S later said his wallet didnt go missing, and that he noticed  things were wrong when his 
card wasnt  in his wallet.  He said he wasnt alone,  and was in fact with friends  at a sports 
match between 14:30 and 17:15.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
couldnt find a plausible  explanation  for how someone took Mr Ss card and learned  the PIN 
without his consent. He pointed out that Mr Ss testimony had been inconsistent. He noted  
that Mr S had frequently  checked his account before and after the withdrawal, but waited to 
report it and told the bank he didnt know about  it before his call.
Mr S didnt agree. He said three  digits of his PIN number were the same,  so it wouldve been 
easy to guess. His parent said they could provide witness statements and vehicle  black box 
data showing Mr Ss whereabouts.  Our investigator asked for this, but Mr S then said that he 
didnt have the black box data anymore, and now couldnt remember who he was with. His 
parent also explained that contrary to what Mr S had said before, he was in fact aware of the 
withdrawal on the evening of 1 December  2018,  but he went out and so they called the bank  
on his behalf.  Our investigator again asked  for evidence of this, such as a phone  bill, but this 
wasnt provided, and there wasnt any evidence on Santanders side that anyone  called 
about Mr Ss account that evening. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ref: DRN96683762Broadly, Santander  can hold Mr S liable for the payment in dispute if he authorised it himself 
or gave  someone  else permission to make it.
There is no evidence that anyone used a cloned card or somehow bypassed the PIN here. 
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence that the transaction in dispute  used Mr Ss genuine 
card, and the correct PIN. This is not enough,  on its own, for Santander  to hold Mr S liable. 
So I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests that its most likely Mr S 
consented to the transaction,  or not.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for Santander to hold Mr S liable for the transaction  Ill explain why.
Ive considered whether its likely that an unknown party  did this without Mr Ss consent.
The person  using Mr Ss card got the PIN right the first time, so it seems they knew what  it 
was. But Mr S said only he and his parent knew the PIN  and understandably,  hes ruled 
out his parent as a suspect. He didnt tell anyone else his PIN, it was a random number  
automatically generated, and it wasnt written down anywhere other than in a hidden  file on 
his secured phone  that no one else had access to. But then there  doesnt  seem to be a likely 
way that someone  knew his PIN without his permission.
The disputed withdrawal  was over three hours  after the last time Mr S used  his PIN. So while  
its possible that someone couldve overlooked him entering his PIN at the petrol  station, it 
doesnt seem likely that theyd follow Mr S for over three hours before taking his card,  or that 
theyd take his card and then wait so long to use it, and risk it being  reported stolen. Instead, 
I might  expect  an unknown thief to try to take and use the card as quickly as possible, before 
it gets cancelled.
Mr S suggested someone couldve guessed the PIN, as three  of the digits  were the same.  
But theres no good reason why someone  would be able to guess that any three  digits would 
be the same, or what they were, or what  order they were in, or what the other  digit was, and 
so on. It was a random  number, and realistically it was about as unlikely to be guessed as 
any of the other thousands of combinations. It is exceedingly unlikely that someone  guessed 
Mr Ss random  PIN on the first try.
So I dont  see a likely explanation for how someone  learned Mr Ss PIN without his 
permission.
Mr S initially  said his wallet was taken, then later clarified only his card was stolen  and the 
rest of his wallet was left with him. Its difficult to see how an unknown  thief would be able to 
take Mr Ss wallet, take the card, and then replace his wallet without him ever noticing.  More 
than that, it seems very unlikely theyd risk being caught in order  to give Mr Ss wallet  back  
to him, rather than simply taking his wallet as a whole and stealing  the rest of its contents.
Overall, I do not think it is plausible that an unknown party made  this withdrawal.
It is possible that someone known to Mr S may have made the transaction without his 
permission. But Mr S said there was no one he could think  of who could have made this 
withdrawal without his consent, nor anyone he suspected. So Mr S himself seems to have 
ruled out this possibility.
Ref: DRN96683763Further, Mr S said he was alone when driving  and only met with his friends at the sports  
match at around  14:30. So they wouldnt have been there to overlook him entering his PIN at 
the petrol station,  and from what hes told us its unlikely theyd have known his PIN 
otherwise. And it still doesnt seem likely that someone  known to Mr S wouldve been able to 
take his wallet,  take the card, and then replace Mr Ss wallet without him ever noticing.
So I dont  think its likely  that someone known to Mr S did this without his permission, either.
Mr S checked his bank  account much more frequently than usual on 1 December 2018,  
including a number  of times leading up to the withdrawal. This seems  more consistent with 
someone making sure there was enough money for the withdrawal than someone  who 
wasnt planning to use their account or who didnt notice their card was missing  until the next 
day. And since Mr S repeatedly checked  his account  following the withdrawal, it seems that 
he was aware of it much sooner than he said he was.
In response to this, Mr Ss parent now says that he was aware  of the withdrawal and that 
they called  Santander on his behalf.  But this completely contradicts what  Mr S told us and 
Santander before and it isnt supported by the evidence.
I do appreciate that this event was a year or so ago, and that memories  can fade. But over 
the course of the complaint, Mr Ss testimony has changed several times, and has been 
contradictory. This makes  it hard for me to find any of his versions of events to be the most 
likely explanation for what happened.
Lastly, Ive not seen  any evidence that makes  it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr S 
couldve authorised  this payment or given  someone  else permission to use his card for him 
while he was at the match.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mr Ss genuine  card and PIN were used. From the evidence 
I have, there  isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to Mr S 
did this without his permission  indeed, Mr S himself seems to have ruled  out that 
possibility. That leaves  only one likely possibility  that Mr S made  the transaction or gave 
someone else permission  to make it. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know  
its a difficult message for Mr S to receive. But given the evidence  I have,  and the balance  of 
probabilities, Im unable  to reasonably  reach any other conclusion.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Santander to refuse  a refund in this 
case.
Ref: DRN96683764my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668376