K820x#14complaint
Miss C in unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) refused  her claim for 
theft under a mobile phone insurance  policy she had with her bank account. My references 
to Assurant include its agents. 
background
In January 2019, Miss C made a claim under her mobile phone insurance. She has said she 
left her phone  in a bag on the passenger seat of her car. She has said she was in a rush and 
went to do some shopping in Tesco and when  she came back, her car was unlocked and the 
phone was no longer there. 
Assurant wouldnt pay the claim.  It has said that by leaving  the phone  in a bag on the 
passenger seat of an unlocked car, Miss C did not take reasonable care of her phone.  
The investigator didnt  think Miss C had complied with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and didnt uphold  this complaint. Miss C didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I sympathise with Miss Cs situation, I think Assurant  has assessed her complaint 
fairly in referring  to the terms and conditions  so I will not be upholding this complaint. I will 
explain why.
The terms and conditions  of the policy say:
We know how important your mobile phone is to you and we expect  that you will take care 
of your mobile phone. If you dont take care of your mobile phone then we may not pay your 
claim.
Taking care of your mobile phone means:
Not knowingly leaving your mobile  phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there?  
Its reasonable to assume leaving a mobile in a handbag on the front seat means  its more  
likely to be stolen. The terms and conditions clearly  say if you need to leave your mobile  
phone somewhere then we expect you to lock it away  out of sight if at all possible.  If you 
cannot lock it away  then you must leave it with someone you trust or concealed out of sight  
in a safe place.
Despite the mobile  phone being in a car, it was in a bag which  wasnt  out of sight. And also 
Miss C has said the car was unlocked when she returned  so it wasnt  locked away.  
The bag the phone was in could  have been  placed  in the boot of the car  locked away  and 
out of sight. 
Ref: DRN93127252The terms and conditions  exclude Theft, loss, damage where you have knowingly put your 
mobile phone at risk or have not taken care of it. Taking everything Ive already said into 
account, I think that leaving the mobile phone in the bag where she did, Miss C was 
knowingly putting it at risk. 
I have considered the circumstances in which Miss C says she left her bag in the car, but as 
I have explained  above, Miss C could have moved the bag so it was not left in plain view in 
the car and was out of sight, as well as ensuring her car was locked or she could have  taken 
it with her.
Under the circumstances  I dont  think Assurant has acted unreasonably in declining  this 
claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019. 
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9312725