K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited.  He isnt happy about  the 
way it dealt with a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
background
Mr K made a claim under  his mobile phone insurance policy.  Assurant met the claim and 
sent a replacement. But Mr K didnt receive  the replacement  phone.
Assurant said that its delivery company delivered the phone to the safe place Mr K 
suggested (his porch) and so it wasnt  responsible for the theft of the phone after it was 
delivered. But Mr K said that he didnt  tell the delivery company where to deliver the phone 
as he was at home and said that he didnt have a porch anyway. So, in effect,  the phone 
was just left outside his door on a communal  hall way at his flats.
Assurant told Mr K that he would have  to make a further claim so he did. Mr K reported the 
theft to the police and gained a crime number. But Assurant wouldnt meet  the claim. This 
was because it said that hed left the instruction for the delivery driver to leave the phone in 
the porch (even though  there wasnt a porch).
Our adjudicator looked into things and upheld Mr Ks complaint. She was of the view that 
there clearly was a theft as Mr K had reported the matter to the police. And that Mr K 
shouldnt be held responsible for Assurants delivery driver leaving the phone  in such an 
exposed position.  So she asked Assurant to replace Mr Ks phone.
As Assurant  didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint and Id like to explain why.
It isnt disputed that Mr K has made a genuine  claim against his policy and that the 
replacement phone appears to have been  stolen. I do wonder why Assurant asked Mr K to 
make a second claim when it had all the facts before it in the first instance and then declined 
that claim.  If anything Mr K had provided more evidence at the second claim stage as hed 
gone onto provide a police crime report in support of his case. 
I know Assurant says that Mr K told the delivery  driver that the replacement phone  should be 
delivered to his porch. But Mr K says he didnt tell the delivery company to do this and he 
was at home at the time of delivery. As there is no disputing  that the theft was genuine I 
dont doubt what  Mr K says. Either way, I dont think Assurants appointed delivery company 
and driver (not Mr Ks) can wash  their hands of all responsibility. Ive seen the photographs 
of Mr Ks front door and it is extremely clear  that this is a communal hallway  in a block  of 
flats and I think it would be irresponsible to leave an expensive phone in such an exposed 
position. 
As such,  I think that Assurant should  replace the original stolen phone and Mr K shouldnt 
have to pay any further excess.
Ref: DRN96852642my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to replace Mr Ks original phone  that was subsequently stolen.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9685264