K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with advice given by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK limited when he sought 
income protection.
Mr H brings his complaint  through  a third party, but for simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions 
as being made by Mr H personally.
background
Mr H took advice in 1989 for an earnings replacement program designed to protect his 
income should he be unable to work due to sickness. This was an advised sale. 
Mr H said the deferral  period was for three months and that this was unsuitable. Because  of 
this, hed like his premiums returned  with interest.  
Sanlam said the policies available at the time meant deferral periods could range between  
one and twelve months, meaning a conversation about Mr Hs needs would have taken 
place as three months was selected.  It also noted the policy  would have paid a monthly 
benefit of £750 per month, which was the closest policy available at the time to Mr Hs 
monthly salary of £850. Sanlam concluded  the advice was suitable.  
Our investigator acknowledged  there  was limited  paperwork from the time of sale.  He also 
thought the advice was suitable because Mr H did not have alternative cover  with his 
employer at the time. He acknowledged this changed as time went on, but, on balance, he 
felt it reasonable  to expect Mr H to share  this with Sanlam, or that he make  his own 
adjustments to reflect the increased  protection offered by his employer.
Mr H did not agree with our investigators findings and so asked for an ombudsman to take a 
look at his case. In summary, he said;
Notes written  on the fact find were inaccurate  and that financial security  was not his 
priority at the time he took out the policy;
The deferral period may have been suitable for a short period of time but this rapidly 
changed and so should have been  brought to his attention  by Sanlam;
The investigator has made an unfair assumption  about his financial acumen based 
on his occupation.
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive found that Sanlam 
took the steps necessary  to ensure this policy was suitable to Mr Hs needs  at the time, so I 
wont be asking it to refund the premiums he paid. Ill explain why.
At the time Mr H took out the policy his employer  offered him some cover  which  
became more comprehensive  over time.  And so I take on board his comment that 
this policy effectively  became unsuitable  with the passage of time, but I need  to 
Ref: DRN96127322consider what his circumstances were  at the time he took it out in 1989. Ive seen the 
fact find completed by the advisor and note that security was one of the priorities 
listed. Mr H subsequently  said this was not necessarily his words and that it formed 
part of the pitch  presented  by the advisor.  But Im satisfied, on balance,  financial 
security was one of the main motivators behind his decision to source  this type of 
policy. I say that because I can see Mr H signed the fact find and theres no evidence 
to suggest any part of it had been tampered  with  that is to say the page  inserted 
without his consent  which is one of the representations put forward in this case.  I 
also say this because  Mr Hs employer  didnt offer a comprehensive sick pay 
package at the time and so this would  have made  sense financially too. 
Mr H had not long qualified in his profession  and was yet to build  experience 
practicing his chosen occupation with his employer. The policy  Sanlam offered made 
up for the shortfall in sick pay for at least the first two years. The deferred period on 
this policy was three months.  And thats because for at least the first two years  of 
Mr Hs employment, he received sick pay of two full months and two half months.  
This means that he would not have  received  any sick pay after this. But the policy  
would have kicked in at that point   subject to a successful  claim being brought. And 
so its because of this, I agree the deferred  period  was set correctly  at the time of 
sale and the policy  appeared  suitable. I understand Mr Hs argument  that after this, 
his employers benefits increased and provided a more comprehensive  level of cover, 
but for the reasons  Ive explained, this wasnt the case at the time he took it out.
Mr H has suggested Sanlam should have told him the deferred  period needed 
updating, or that the cover was no longer suitable for his needs. But Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr H shared  with it the change in his circumstances. In 
particular, when  his employer afforded him an increase of sick pay. And as Mr H was 
the policy holder  and would have, or reasonably  should have, been aware of these 
changes, I think  it reasonable for him to have  done this. I note Mr H later took out 
other policies and left this one running  concurrently, but this isnt something I can 
reasonably hold Sanlam responsible for. Mr H surrendered  this policy  in 2000 but I 
see no reason why he could not have done this sooner and in 1996  when he took 
another policy with another provider.  I understand Mr H is concerned with the 
investigator making assumptions about  his financial acumen, but the wider  
circumstances of this complaint suggest theres  no obvious reason  why Mr H should 
not be considered  financially astute, even  when he initially  took this policy  out.       
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612732