K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt provide the service it 
should have when he made  a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75) 
regarding his holiday.
background
Mr P says that the holiday he booked using his Halifax  credit  card was not of a satisfactory 
quality. He says there  were issues getting  the appropriate sleeping facilities  and that in the 
end the room they had booked was said not to be suitable so they were moved. He says the 
new room didnt have  a sea view (which he had paid extra for). He says that the lift didnt fit 
the double pushchair needed for his children;  despite the hotel being for families, and that 
his family  became ill while away. He says that other  guests were also ill but no information 
was provided about this at the time.
Mr P raised a s.75 complaint with Halifax but says the service  he received was slow and 
unsatisfactory making the situation he experienced even  more stressful. 
Halifax says that Mr Ps s.75 claim was declined as it was unable to evidence  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. It says it hadnt  been  provided with evidence  that Mr P had 
made a booking for a room with a sea view and that Mr P was provided with a room to 
accommodate all five guests following the initial room  allocated not being suitable. 
Halifax accepts that there  was a delay in responding to Mr P and that he received poor 
service. Because  of this it offered to pay him £75 compensation.  It says this is additional to 
the compensation it had previously paid Mr P for the service he received trying to raise his 
claim. 
Our adjudicator said that any issue Mr P had with the service provided by the tour operator 
would need to be raised directly with the tour operator. In regard to the hotel room  he said 
that the booking was made for a room for three  to four people when there were five people  in 
the party therefore Mr P and his family  had to be moved to another room. Although this didnt 
have a sea view he said he couldnt  conclude a mistake had been made. He didnt think  
Halifax could be held responsible for the issues with the lift or sickness.  But he did think 
Halifax couldve provided better service when  dealing with Mr Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator initially recommended that Halifax pay Mr P £100 compensation for the 
service when dealing  with his complaint. Halifax responded saying that it had already  offered 
to pay Mr P £75. Our adjudicator then said this was fair.
Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that the holiday documents showed a 
room supplement of £56 which could  be part of the cost of a sea view.  He said he 
remembered the difference between a normal room and a sea view being around £200.  
In regard to the compensation  offered he challenged why this had reduced  from £100 to £75 
and said that the compensation wasnt sufficient given the distress and inconvenience he 
had been caused.
Ref: DRN97622162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a complaint under s.75.  s.75 says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
there's either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Mr P complains that the holiday he booked for his family using his Halifax credit card was not 
as it shouldve been. He has raised  issues with the room allocation, the lack of a sea view,  
the lifts in the hotel,  and that his family  got sick while on holiday.
In order for me to uphold this complaint I need  to see that a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation has occurred. Mr P made  a booking for five people  however the room  he 
was initially allocated wasnt suitable for this number.  I understand Mr Ps comments about 
the room not sleeping  the right number  but him believing cots would be put into the room  for 
his children hence the issues didnt  become apparent until the room was provided  and it 
didnt meet their requirements.
However, as a suitable room was then provided,  I find that this did resolve  the issue Mr P 
and his family experienced in regard  to the size of the room.  I note Mr Ps comments about 
how this was handled but I cannot hold Halifax responsible for the service Mr P received 
from the tour operator.
The room  that Mr P was given in order to accommodate his family didnt have a sea view. 
Mr P says that he paid extra for a sea view. He has provided information  showing a room 
supplement of £56. However, the evidence  provided doesnt show that Mr P booked  a room 
with a sea view or that the supplement for the room was linked to a sea view.  Without further  
evidence I do not find I can say that a breach of contract or misrepresentation occurred by 
Mr P not receiving a room  with a sea view.
Likewise, I have nothing  to say that the issue with the lifts showed a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. I have  nothing  to show that the lifts were discussed or that information 
was provided to say they would fit a double pushchair. So while  I can understand how 
frustrating this was for Mr P I do not find that I can hold Halifax responsible for this.
I am very sorry  to hear that Mr Ps family experienced sickness  while  on holiday and I can 
appreciate the impact  this will have  had. However,  based on what I have  seen I dont find 
that I have  enough to say that there was a breach of contract  that Halifax  can be held liable 
for.
Overall, I do not fin that I have enough  evidence  to say that Mr Ps s.75 complaint shouldve 
been upheld  and therefore I do not find that Halifax did anything  wrong  by rejecting this.
Mr P has also complained about  the service he received  while dealing with his claim. Halifax  
has accepted  that there were delays and that the service Mr P received wasnt as it should  
have been. I can understand  that this added to the distress  and inconvenience  Mr P had 
already suffered due to the issues with his holiday.  I note the comments  by Halifax about 
compensation paid in a previous linked complaint and having gone through  the information  
provided I find that the £75 it offered is reasonable in regard to the concerns  raised  in this 
complaint. Halifax has confirmed this offer is still available.
Ref: DRN97622163my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  should pay Mr P £75 
compensation, as it has offered, to compensate him for the poor service he received while  
dealing with this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9762216