K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about claims she made for subsidence  damage  to her home under her 
household insurance policy. She is unhappy  that trees thought  to be causing the damage to 
her property were not removed during  the 2010  claim  and this resulted  in further damage 
being caused from 2013. 
Initially, Mrs L was also not convinced the claim made in 2018  for damage to a different area 
of the property was due to a different cause and a second excess should have been paid. 
However, Mrs L has since confirmed she is no longer concerned  about  this issue.
Covea Insurance  plc underwrites the policy and is responsible for the claim decisions.
Mrs L is represented in her complaint by a relative, but I will refer to all comments and 
submissions as those of Mrs L.
background
In 2010 Mrs L made a claim  for damage to her garage and the extension on the side of her 
home. There were cracks in the fabric  of the building  and it was determined that it was 
suffering from subsidence. This was being  caused by shrinkage  of the clay soil beneath the 
foundations due to moisture extraction by trees/shrubs in neighbours gardens. The two main  
culprits for the damage were thought to be two trees in one of the neighbouring  gardens. 
There were also some  smaller trees/shrubs that the arboroculturalist thought should also be 
removed to be on the safe side. These were on the boundary line between the same 
neighbour and a second one.
Both neighbours were written to in October 2010 asking for the removal of the offending 
trees/shrubs. The second neighbour confirmed the smaller trees/shrubs were owned  by the 
first neighbour. The first neighbour didnt co-operate with the loss adjuster and the trees  and 
shrubs werent removed.
In September  2011 the loss adjusters  wrote  to Mrs L and confirmed the monitoring  readings 
showed very slight movement. However,  despite this movement, it confirmed it would be 
repairing as it was satisfied that a robust scheme of crack repairs  will suffice and that no 
ground stabilization  will be required. This decision was made based on three monitoring 
results  March 2011, May 2011 and July 2011.  It was detailed there was only 1 mm of 
movement to one of the monitoring  points  and the engineer  concluded that degree of 
movement could be catered for by a robust crack repair scheme.
Repairs were completed in March 2012  and a certificate of structural adequacy was issued 
to Mrs L in April 2012. This said the property had suffered  from subsidence caused by 
shrinkage of the clay subsoil due to moisture extraction  by nearby trees.  It was detailed that 
it had placed the owners  of the offending  vegetation  on notice in February 2012. It said 
monitoring had been carried  out to confirm  stability of the property before repairs  were  
undertaken. 
In October  2013 Mrs L once again  noticed  cracking  appearing in the garage.  She contacted  
the loss adjusters and it said it would liaise with the insurer  about the problem. This is 
detailed in the loss adjusters file. However, it is uncertain whether anything  happened in 
response to the call from Mrs L as Covea  has recently confirmed that it has nothing on file 
Ref: DRN91520292relating to this referral.  Due to family and health  circumstances,  it was early 2015 before 
Mrs L was in a position  to chase the matter  up.
Covea looked  into the damage  and its cause. It was again determined the garage was 
suffering from subsidence. It was concluded that three trees could be influencing the 
situation, all of which were in neighbours gardens. The neighbours were written  to in 
September 2015 to ask that the offending  trees be removed.   
One of the neighbours  had her tree removed in September  2016.  The other trees  were  the 
same ones implicated in the 2010  claim and again  the neighbour who owned them wasnt 
co-operative.  It was confirmed that once the tree management works had been completed,  
the property would be monitored  to confirm stability before repairs.  
While investigating the cause of the subsidence,  the loss adjuster identified there were 
several defects with the drainage system for the property. It confirmed that due to the 
locations these  problems werent linked  to the subsidence movement  and so would have to 
be dealt with separately. Mrs L was told the damage to the drains could be dealt with under 
a separate claim  for accidental damage  to drains  and the loss adjuster offered to set up such 
a claim if Mrs L wanted it to. It also highlighted there were two down-pipes  that discharged 
water directly beside the house and that building regulations now said that wasnt 
acceptable. It advised Mrs L to seek advice from a drainage engineer  to remedy  the situation 
as it would be considered a maintenance  issue  and not covered by the policy. Mrs L 
arranged for the issues regarding  the downpipes to be dealt with immediately. 
The loss adjuster considered that once  the movement had been stopped the garage  could 
be repaired. The repairs were expected  to consist of the cracks being stitched together using  
stainless steel stitching  anchors, repointing and redecoration. The costs  were anticipated to 
be slightly over £900.
In the middle of 2017 Mrs L took advice about  marketing her property.  The estate agent 
approached confirmed that it would market the house for between  £900,000 and 
£1,000,000. 
At the beginning  of 2018 a firm of solicitors  was appointed to pursue the removal of the 
trees. Whilst the appointment  had been  made, it doesnt appear  from the correspondence  
between the solicitors and the loss adjusters there  was any sense of urgency on the part of 
the solicitors.
In February 2018  Mrs L approached another local estate agent  about the possibility  of selling 
the property. It recommended an asking price of £995,000.  Mrs L decided  not to market the 
property at that time. However, the estate agent  subsequently asked if it could show  a 
couple the property as a one-off  viewing  Mrs L agreed.  On 31 July 2018 an offer was 
made and accepted for a purchase price of £980,000, subject to contract. 
In September  2018 Mrs K noticed some cracking in her hall. It was reported to Covea.
In October  2018 the loss adjuster contacted Mrs L to tell her that the prospective buyers of 
her property had contacted it. It asked permission to provide the buyers  with copies of the 
subsidence claim documentation. Mrs L agreed. The buyers subsequently withdrew their 
offer. 
Ref: DRN91520293The solicitors attempts  to have the offending  trees removed were still ongoing in the autumn 
of that year.  Eventually, one of the trees was removed and the other  significantly reduced in 
size. This happened at the beginning of January 2019, but the neighbour refused to confirm  
what had been  done, so Covea didnt know if the stump of the tree that had been removed 
had also been  killed or whether there was the risk of it re-growing.
The new cracking  that had been  reported was assessed. The report produced  in 
November 2018  said the pattern of cracking  suggested the internal wall between  the hallway 
and front reception  room had rotated and dropped relative to the remainder of the property. 
This was evidenced by tapered cracking to both sides of the wall. The report  went  on to say 
the nature  of the cracks  was indicative of subsidence as a result  of shrinkage of the clay 
subsoil due to the moisture extracting influence of the vegetation at the front of the property.  
It was determined an arboricultural report was needed.
A tree specialist  was commissioned to assess which trees were causing  the damage  in the 
hall. It was determined there were three offending trees;  two in Mrs Ls front garden and one 
in her attached neighbours  front garden (none of which were involved in the previous 
subsidence claim). It was recommended all three trees be removed and they were.
In January 2019 Mrs Ls home was burgled while she was in the property.  It has been 
explained that Mrs L was understandably terrified by the incident and so needed  to move out 
of the property (and sell it) quickly. Both the estate agents that had previously been 
approached were contacted again  and commissioned to find a buyer  for the property  the 
price being  negotiable given the subsidence and the urgency of selling the property. The 
agent that had evaluated  the property in February  2018 again suggested an asking price of 
in the region of £995,000.  Offers were  received  via the estate agents,  which  Mrs Ls 
representative has confirmed were in the region of £725,000.
In February 2019  an offer for the property  was received for £800,000 from a friend of Mrs Ls 
attached neighbour. It was accepted by Mrs L and contracts were exchanged the following 
month.
In April 2019 a schedule of works was produced for repairs to the garage.  The repairs  
detailed were essentially crack repairs to the walls  and floor,  although it also included a 
movement joint within the garage. There is no mention of stabilisation works being included.  
The materials and labour costs amounted to £3,836.61. The schedule of works produced at 
the same  time for the damage to the main house again related to crack repairs  and 
redecoration. The cost of those works was detailed as £2,496.31. Covea has confirmed the 
claims were  settled  based on these amounts. 
In August  2019  Mrs L moved out of the property into sheltered accommodation. The property 
sale completed for £800,000.
Mrs L wasnt happy with how her claims had been dealt with and complained to Covea. It 
responded explaining  that an average  subsidence claim could take between 12 and 
24 months, but some could take longer. Mrs Ls claim was a complex  one due to the 
behaviour of the neighbour.  It said it couldnt  force the removal  of vegetation  and so it had to 
involve solicitors. It denied any liability for the shortfall in the sale value. However, it did 
accept its handling  of the claim  had fallen short of the service  it strives  to achieve and it 
offered a compensation payment of £350.
Ref: DRN91520294One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  She 
considered the compensation  paid to Mrs L was sufficient. In addition,  she was satisfied the 
first two claims  were entirely separate from the third one and so two excesses were payable.  
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  conclusions. She reiterated that she didnt think  Covea 
should have allowed the neighbour to delay  the claim as long as he did. She said he had 
been given many deadlines  over the course of the claim and hadnt been  co-operative, only 
to be given new concessions. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December. In that document  I detailed my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt.
I will consider the original subsidence  claim  first. This claim started in 2010  and it was fairly 
quickly determined what the cause of the subsidence was and what  needed to be done  to 
stop the movement.  The neighbours were  asked to remove the offending trees,  but when 
this hadnt happened just under a year later, Covea gave up on getting  the trees removed. 
This wasnt unreasonable. It isnt appropriate  for an insurer to allow  a claim to drag on when 
its first choice  for stabilising a property  cant be achieved.
However, in this case, rather  than moving  to an alternative option  to stabilise the property, it 
decided not to stabilise it at all. Although the movement was limited, the garage was still 
moving and Covea was aware of this. Rather than stabilise the building, it decided to 
reinforce the walls  of the garage so the movement wouldnt cause further damage for a time. 
When an insurer repairs a property, it is expected to do a lasting repair. What the timescale  
for lasting  is depends  on what is being repaired.  If the item being  repaired is only expected 
to have a lifespan of 10 years (as would  be expected for a sofa for example) the repair would 
need to last until the item was around 10 years old. In the case of a brick building the repair 
would be expected to last for a much  longer time.  I am not persuaded the repair  Covea 
completed on Mrs Ls garage could be considered lasting in this context.  Given the building  
was still moving, I think it was inevitable the repairs would  fail, which  they did within  
18 months. 
In summary,  to 2012, I consider  Covea failed to fulfil its obligations under the insurance  
contract in that it completed a repair that it would reasonably have known was not lasting, 
would fail and require further works to be done. I think when it made  the decision it did in 
2011, it would have known this would  cause Mrs L inconvenience and upset in the future.
When the repairs did fail in 2013  Mrs L contacted the loss adjusters to tell it what had 
happened. I dont think this was unreasonable as the loss adjusters had represented  Covea 
during the claim  and had been her point of contact on a day-to-day basis.  The loss adjusters 
file indicates that it referred this issue to Covea,  although we were  not provided  with 
evidence of this from that time. Covea has subsequently said it wasnt aware  of the failure of 
the repairs until 2015. If that is the case, it would appear there was some  form of 
communication failure between Covea and its loss adjusters. Mrs L shouldnt have suffered 
for that failing. Had Covea  reopened the claim in 2013 rather  than 2015, after Mrs L was 
able to chase  up the matter, over a year of delay would have been avoided.  
Once the claim was reopened, it was quickly established that the dominant cause of damage  
was the same as it had been in 2010.  At this point it wasnt  unreasonable for Covea to give 
the neighbour another opportunity to remove the trees. However, given the history  of a lack 
of co-operation,  I dont think Covea should  have allowed the neighbour to cause further  
Ref: DRN91520295delays. The first contact was March 2016 and reasonably, I think  Covea should have 
concluded six months later that the tree removal wouldnt be happening. It should again  
have moved to an alternative  method  of stabilising the garage or, depending  on the costs, 
declared it as a total loss. 
Had the claim been handled  appropriately in the first place, the garage would have been 
stabilised and the claim could have been  closed permanently in 2012.  So by the time the 
property was sold Mrs L had had to put up with more than six further years of witnessing her 
property deteriorate and having the inconvenience  of an ongoing claim.  This  was entirely 
avoidable and so I consider Covea should  pay Mrs L a total of £1,800 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused  from 2013 when the repairs failed.
Mrs L looked into selling her home in both 2017 and 2018, but didnt go through with 
marketing the house. I dont  think it will be possible to determine for certain why this was and 
whether the open subsidence claim was an influencing  factor.  So I cant  conclude  the 
property would have  been actively marketed at either of these times. As such, I think  it likely 
the offer Mrs L accepted at the end of July 2018 would have been the only one she received 
before the new, separate incidence of subsidence  occurred. 
The question then becomes whether the July 2018  offer would have been withdrawn if the 
first claim had been settled some  years earlier and all the buyers  were  faced with was the 
new September 2018 claim. I cant be certain what would  have  happened,  but buying a 
house where there has been/is subsidence to an outbuilding is a very different proposition  
from buying one where  there is current subsidence to the house itself.  If the buyers needed 
a mortgage to complete the purchase, the latter would likely  make it impossible to get a 
mortgage. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded the poor handling  of the 2010  claim led 
to the loss of the sale and it is more likely that it was lost because the second claim 
happened, which Covea isnt responsible for.
In light of the above, I need to consider the handling  of the second subsidence claim. 
Mrs L has questioned  whether this should  be a separate claim. I am satisfied that it should, 
Whilst the mechanism  of the subsidence  is the same as the 2010 incident  vegetative  
induced clay shrinkage  I am satisfied it is a separate  incident.  The simple way of 
determining this is whether, if the cause of the 2010 subsidence was removed, it would 
stop/have prevented the 2018 damage  from occurring. In this case  it would  not  the cause 
was completely different trees  so it was rightly dealt with as a separate  claim.
Mrs L reported the cracking  in September 2018, the claim was assessed, and the offending 
trees removed. However, events seem to have overtaken the claim settlement in that Mrs L 
agreed a sale in February 2019.  It was agreed that Covea would make a cash  settlement for 
both claims. It did so based on the cost to it of repairing the superstructural  damage,  not 
including any stabilisation works on the garage. 
In respect to the second claim, I dont think the settlement being made on this basis was 
unreasonable. Covea hadnt  caused any delays in the handling of this claim and what  
prevented it from completing repairs was Mrs Ls actions.  
However, I dont think payment based  on the cost of repairs was an appropriate way to settle 
the first claim. As I have  said above,  but for the mistakes  made  by Covea,  suitable  repairs  
would have been completed  to the garage  many years before the sale. As such,  I consider  
Covea should  have made an offer of settlement based  on diminution in value caused by the 
Ref: DRN91520296unrepaired state of the garage. The loss will be the difference between  the hypothetical  
value of the property, not taking account of the need to sell the property quickly, in the state 
it was in the spring of 2019 with that which it would have had if the garage had been 
stabilised and repaired several  years earlier.
Calculating the loss will not be simple given Covea  cant arrange  for access  to the property. 
However, it has details of the damage  to the garage as at the time of the settlement  and it 
also has photographs.  As such,  Covea  should  commission a valuation  surveyor  who has 
knowledge of the local area to provide some estimates of value:
The value of the property in April 2019 based  on there being subsidence to the main 
property (which had by then been  stabilised, but not repaired)  and a stable and fully 
repaired garage.
The value of the property in April 2019 based  on there being subsidence damage to the 
main property  (which had been  stabilised  but not repaired) and a garage  that was 
suffering from ongoing movement and had significant damage.  
Any photographs and reports  that detail the damage to the interior  of the property  and that to 
the garage should be given to the valuer  to assist  in its assessment. The reason for the 
second figure being needed is that the requirement  for a fast sale needs to be factored out of 
any settlement, given I have determined the property wouldnt have been  sold by that point. 
Any difference between the two figures above  is the loss Mrs L suffered upon the sale of her 
home due to the poor handling of the first claim.  From this figure Covea can deduct the 
£3,836.61 it has already  paid out in relation  to that claim. If the resulting figure shows that 
Mrs L has suffered a loss, Covea  should  pay her the amount of the loss plus simple interest 
at a rate of 8% per year, from the date it paid its claim  settlement until it pays Mrs L the 
additional loss now identified.
Whilst Mrs L hasnt been able to provide details of the firm of valuers her buyer  used, she 
has been able to locate a telephone number and name associated with the survey  that was 
done. Covea may wish to attempt  to find the original  valuation  firm in the event it can be 
commissioned to produce the above  information, as it actually saw the property.
Mrs L clarified some details of the circumstances surrounding the claim.  It was confirmed the 
house wasnt marketed  in 2017  and 2018  as, although it would have  been  beneficial, she 
didnt want to leave  her home of over 50 years. She thanked us for our help and assistance  
with her complaint.  
Covea didnt entirely agree with my conclusions  but confirmed it accepted  my provisional  
decision. However, in relation to the redress I had proposed, it said that due to a recent court 
case, surveyors would be reticent to accept unusual commissions.  Determining a diminution 
in value sum would  be considered as such.  It said it didnt think  it would be able to get such 
a valuation or that it would  likely  be accurate. Instead it proposed  that the financial loss 
element of the claim be settled on the basis of the cost of underpinning  the affected  walls of 
the garage, less the amount already paid out in lieu of repairs.  
I informed Covea I would consider an alternative  proposal for redress, but I didnt think  the 
redress it had proposed was appropriate. The sum that had been paid to Mrs L for the 
repairs to the garage were paid to repair the super-structural damage  that above  ground 
level. So I considered  the underpinning costs should  be added to the amount already paid. 
Ref: DRN91520297I invited Covea to consider  its offer further  and it said it would do so. However,  it didnt 
provide any further  comment.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I was willing to consider an alternative  settlement method for this complaint, Im not 
satisfied the offer made by Covea was appropriate  and it didnt propose an alternative when 
that was pointed out to it. As such,  I remain satisfied that the complaint should  be settled on 
the basis of diminution  in value.
I have noted Coveas opinion that it might have difficulty arranging for a diminution in value 
assessment completed. Whilst I accept there might be difficulties, I am not persuaded it 
would be impossible. Indeed, Mrs L has provided  the telephone  number  of the surveyor  who 
valued the property when  it was sold, so that might  assist Covea in having the assessment 
done. If it requires  these details Covea should contact our investigator.
My conclusions in this case remain the same. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement  of this complaint Covea 
Insurance plc should calculate  the diminution  in value  to the property due to the damage to 
the garage, by the method detailed above. It should  pay the amount determined, less the 
amount already paid in relation to the garage repairs plus interest at 8% simple  per annum 
from the date of the sale to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9152029