K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs R aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. There is little paperwork available from the time Mrs R applied for the PPI 
but this isnt unusual considering how long ago the policy was sold,  and that businesses 
arent required to keep this information  indefinitely. From the information that is available  Im 
unable to say FICL  didnt  make Mrs R aware the PPI was optional,  or that she didnt choose 
to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  the other means she had of making  
her repayments which  included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Rs sick pay and for longer. It would also have protected  her saving so they 
could be used towards any other expenses she may have had.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN93634222Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363422