K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined a 
claim they made on their legal expenses insurance.
Where I refer to LV, this includes the acts or omissions of its agents  and claims handlers.
background
Mr and Mrs S erected a shed in their garden  in 2016. This led a neighbour to complain  that 
the roof had crossed over the boundary between the two properties. Legal  action  was 
initiated against them. And by the summer of 2017  the matter  had developed into a wider 
boundary dispute.
Although Mr and Mrs S tried to deal with the dispute themselves, as matters  escalated they 
needed to engage their own solicitor  to protect their interests. They did this in November 
2017 and by January 2018 the matter was settled  when both sides agreed to a Tomlin  Order 
which set out how the situation would be resolved.
Mr and Mrs S subsequently made a claim on their insurance in April 2018 for support with 
their legal costs. LV declined the claim. It said they hadnt followed the proper notification 
process. The investigator didnt uphold this case. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and so their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing I thought  about was the contract of insurance Mr and Mrs S had entered  into. 
LV has relied  on certain terms and conditions in the policy to reject  their claim. For example, 
the following  excerpt about general exclusions is typical:
We will not pay any legal expenses if: [we] havent  agreed, in advance, the purpose and 
amount of any legal  expenses, or they relate to a period before [we] have accepted your 
claim; your claim does not have and continues to have  a reasonable chance of success;  the 
cost of legal  expenses to pursue your claim is not proportional to the expected benefit; ; 
you claim more  than 180 days after the event unless  your delay  in notifying your claim has 
not affected the likely costs or outcome;
Terms like these  in legal expenses insurance are not unusual. I think  theyve been set out 
clearly in the policy documenmtation Ive seen.
I think there were various opportunities for Mr and Mrs S to have sought advice and support 
from LV. At any time between October  2016, when  their neighbour first raised  a concern 
about their new shed, and prior to agreement of the Tomlin Order relating  to property 
boundary issues  in January 2018.
Actually, I dont think theres a disagreement here about what  the policy requires in terms of 
bringing a claim. Mr S acknowledged that he didnt follow certain  conditions.  He thought 
taking matters through the claims process would be difficult given the court  timetable he was 
facing. And that the situation  and costs could escalate to a full blown boundary  dispute.
Ref: DRN90673652Mr S also told us about his experience of pursuing a separate claim which  had ultimately 
been rejected  by the insurer because the costs of the case were assessed  as 
disproportionate compared to the potential benefits  available. So in this case he was trying  
to keep costs under  control.
I dont doubt Mr Ss motivations  I think he acted with best intentions. Nonetheless as he 
himself observed when he advanced his claim,  he wasnt  expert in these matters.  After his 
neighbour broadened the dispute about  the property boundary he said:
This I responded to on the 16 August [2017] still arguing my case, and refusing to pay their 
costs but realising now that I was getting very deep  water and finding  all my arguments 
being twisted by their solicitor.
I think Mr and Mrs S shouldve notified  LV much earlier about their claim.  But thats not the 
end of the matter.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that an 
insurer shouldnt reject a claim  for breach of condition  unless the circumstances of the claim 
are connected to the breach. Essentially that means its up to LV to show  late notification 
has caused it prejudice. I think its done this.
By bringing  their claim after the event, Mr and Mrs S havent given LV the opportunity  to try 
and negotiate  their legal rights. It hasnt been  able to carry out a legal assessment to 
understand whether the case  had reasonable prospects of success,  nor whether it would be 
proportionate to take the case to court, weighing costs against potential  benefits.
Further, LV didnt have an opportunity to agree terms  with the policyholders  solicitor  or to 
instruct its own panel solicitors. It was prevented from having a say over how the case  
should be run and had no control over the costs incurred. 
I think LVs position was prejudiced by Mr and Mrs Ss actions. So I dont think it would  be 
reasonable for me to require LV to meet their claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9067365