K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about the service that he received from HSBC  UK Bank  plc when he 
contacted it about his financial  difficulties.
background
Mr N has a bank account with HSBC. He also has a loan account and a credit card with 
HSBC. He contacted HSBC  in early July 2018 because  he says that he was in financial 
difficulties, hed lost his job and his mother was unwell. HSBC agreed  to suspend the interest 
and charges on his accounts for 60 days and its call notes say that Mr N was aware that his 
credit card was being blocked. Mr N contacted  HSBC in September  2018 and provided 
updated income and expenditure information   and it agreed to suspend  interest and 
charges on his accounts for a further  90 days  but it removed the overdraft from his 
account. Mr N wasnt  satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
HSBC had acted  unfairly.  He said that it put repayment plans in place to try to assist  Mr N 
while he was in financial difficulty  and he thought that HSBC had clearly  explained the terms 
of the agreement to Mr N and that access to his credit card and overdraft would be removed 
when the agreements were in place.  And he said that wasnt  an unfair thing for HSBC to do.
Mr N has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that his financial  difficulties wouldnt have continued if HSBC hadnt suspended  everything 
immediately. And he says that HSBC suspended  his bank account and credit card account 
without any notification.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr N for all of the difficulties that hes suffered  he lost his job, his 
mothers been unwell and hes experienced financial difficulties. A bank is required to 
respond to any financial  difficulties that a customer is experiencing both positively  and 
sympathetically.
Mr N contacted HSBC  about his financial difficulties  in early July 2018.  It agreed to suspend  
interest and charges on his accounts for 60 days. HSBCs call notes  say that Mr N was told 
that his credit card would also be suspended.  Mr N contacted HSBC again  later that month 
because hed tried to use his credit  card but had been unable  to do so. HSBC told him that 
his credit card had been blocked as part of the arrangement that had been put in place 
earlier that month. And I consider  it to be more likely than not that Mr N had been told that 
his credit card would be suspended.
Mr N then contacted  HSBC in September 2018  and provided updated  income and 
expenditure information. HSBC agreed to suspend interest and charges for a further 90 days 
but on that phone call he was told that this would apply to all of his accounts, that it would 
revoke his credit card and that it would need  to remove the overdraft limit from his bank 
account. And it also told Mr N that the direct debit for his loan repayments would be 
cancelled.
Ref: DRN91677552I can understand that Mr N wouldnt have wanted his overdraft to be removed or his credit 
card to be revoked.  But hed contacted  HSBC  because he was in financial difficulty and it 
agreed to suspend interest  and charges on his accounts. And I consider  it to be fair and 
reasonable that it would  want to stop Mr Ns indebtedness to it increasing as otherwise his 
financial difficulties would  be likely to be made worse. 
HSBC says that Mr N had failed to make any payments to any of his accounts for several 
months which led it to believe that he wasnt in a better position  financially. It also says that 
letters that it has sent to Mr N have been  returned to it marked  to show that the addressee 
had gone away.  So it says that its updated its records to reflect that.
I consider that HSBC  has responded  positively and sympathetically to Mr Ns financial 
difficulties. And Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that it has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr N. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require HSBC to take any action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9167755