K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he opened an Individual Savings Account (or ISA) with TSB Bank plc, 
but that the cash deposit he used to open it was never credited to it. He wants  TSB to make 
the necessary  adjustment to the account  balance.  
background
Mr D has explained that in September 2016 he was given  a sum of money, £4,500 in cash, 
by a family  friend,  Mrs P. He was to look after it for her. He decided that the best way to do 
that would  be to open a savings account  and to deposit the cash  into it. He recalls that he 
went to his local TSB branch and did that, handing over the cash. In February 2017 and April 
2018 he made further cash  deposits, also of money  given to him by Mrs P. But it was only 
after this that he noticed that the initial deposit  of £4,500 hadnt been credited to the account.  
He asked TSB to look into things.  
TSB did that but concluded that no deposit  had been made  at the time the account  was 
opened. The account had been  opened  in September 2016,  and the application form had 
indicated that a deposit would be made;  but, the bank said, no cash  had been paid into the 
account until several months later. 
Mr D referred  the case to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. He 
concluded however that Mr D probably  hadnt  made  the cash  deposit after all. He didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr D didnt accept the investigators view and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
the same  overall  conclusion as the investigator  did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ill consider first of all the circumstances in which Mr D came to have £4,500 in cash. He 
initially said that it was money that Mrs P had put aside to cover  her funeral expenses. In the 
course of our investigation, however,  Mrs P provided a statement and a draft will which gave 
a little more detail about her intentions. She explained that she had known Mr Ds mother 
(who is a neighbour) for a long time and over the years got to know Mr D, his wife, his 
daughter and his grandson.
Mrs P said that Mr D would take her and his mother shopping and to her local bank, where 
she would  withdraw  cash. She would keep any cash she didnt spend at home. Mrs Ps 
intention was to build  up a reserve of cash so that her brother would be able to pay her 
funeral expenses or, if necessary,  she would be able to cover his. At some point she found 
out that her brother  had sufficient funds of his own, and that hed written a will. She decided  
to write a will herself; she intended  Mr D to be her executor and for his grandson to be a 
beneficiary. It was at this point that she asked Mr D if he would accept some  cash to keep it 
safe. She explained  that Mr D could deal with the money as he saw fit, and that the cash 
was to form part of his grandsons inheritance. 
Mrs P also provided a draft will. It appoints Mr D as executor and leaves all Mrs Ps funds 
remaining in accounts  with two other banks (not TSB)  to Mr Ds grandson,  on reaching the 
age of 21. I dont  believe  its significant for this complaint that the will is in draft form only; I 
believe though  that it is persuasive  evidence of Mrs Ps intentions  at the time.  
Ref: DRN91547622Mrs Ps statement  also explained that Mr D had said that he had to go to TSB and that he 
came to her house the same day. She collected the cash she had saved, and they counted it 
together. It totalled  £4,500  in £20 notes, and Mr D took it with him in a bag. The following 
day Mr D gave Mrs P an application form for a fixed rate ISA, referring to a lump sum of 
£4,500. She put the form away  for safe keeping. 
Mrs P recalled too that she later gave Mr D more cash, again money which  shed saved at 
home, to place in the ISA. This was the money  credited  to the ISA in February 2017 and 
April 2018. 
Ive no reason to think Mrs Ps recollection of events is inaccurate.  I believe theres  some  
confusion over her precise intentions, since giving money to Mr D to use as he saw fit 
wouldnt necessarily give his grandson the benefit  of it. She could have asked Mr D to open 
an account in his grandsons name,  for example. I do believe however that she gave Mr D 
£4,500 in cash as they both say she did.
The key issue I have  to consider, therefore, is what happened to the money after that  and 
specifically whether Mr D handed  it over at TSB. 
Theres no dispute that Mr D went to TSB and opened the ISA later that day. The account 
was in his name and was allocated a number and sort code. Mr D recalls  that he (with Mrs 
D) went  to a meeting  room with a staff member and the necessary paperwork was 
completed. That paperwork included a printed form headed Your application to open a 
Fixed Rate  Cash  ISA. That form was completed  with Mr Ds details. It included a section 
about funding  the account,  asking How do you wish to save? above four options. The 
Lump sum option was checked, and the amount of £4,500 completed.   
This is, in my view,  consistent with Mr Ds case that he intended to open the ISA with a 
deposit of £4,500. Its also consistent with what he and Mrs P have said about the cash she 
gave him. But the key issue here is whether in fact Mr D gave the TSB cashier the money.
I note that the account opening  form said that the ISA would start from the date of the first 
deposit. It was therefore possible to set up an account before paying any money  into it. 
Indeed, that would not be uncommon; for example, a form could be accompanied by a 
cheque which would  still need to be cleared, or by a direct debit instruction which would 
need to be acted on. For that reason, I dont believe the reference to £4,500  on the form is 
conclusive evidence of receipt of funds. 
Mr D says that he handed over the cash to TSBs staff member  in a meeting room. He says 
she left the room with the cash and then returned  without  it. The staff member  says that she 
wouldnt have done that. Had Mr D wanted  to make a cash deposit, she would have  taken 
him to one of the tills to pay in the money, in line with the banks procedures.  Due to the 
passage of time, theres no security coverage  which might  show what  actually happened. I 
do however think its unlikely that a cashier would  have  dealt with a substantial  cash  deposit 
in the way Mr D recalls. A meeting room would not have  had the equipment needed to 
handle a cash deposit, such as a till, note counter  and receipt  printer.  And a cash  deposit  
would usually be counted and processed in the customers  presence  in part to avoid  
disputes of this kind.     
Ive considered whether cash might have been wrongly credited to a different account, or 
simply not credited  at all. The banks records dont show any similar deposit on the day in 
question. Im satisfied  therefore that the cash wasnt collected and credited in error. Those 
records dont show any relevant error in the balances of cash  in the tills either. Had the cash  
Ref: DRN91547623been placed in a till but not credited to any account, the balances would have been £4,500 
too high. Id expect a bank to identify an error of that degree quite quickly. 
If, as Mr D says,  the cashier took the cash  from him, the only other explanation is that she 
kept it or gave it to someone,  rather than placing it in one of the branchs tills or processing 
the payment in any way. That is, however, very unlikely in my view. Mr and Mrs D would 
have been aware  that the money hadnt  been  counted in their presence and wouldnt have 
been given any receipt for it. I think its likely they would have queried that at the time. It 
would have been difficult for the cashier to remove that much cash; there were, according to 
Mr D, 225 notes. Even  if Mr D didnt say anything at the time,  it was likely hed check  the 
deposit had been credited within a day or two. The fact that he didnt  might  suggest it wasnt  
made after all. 
Ive no doubt that Mr D genuinely  believes that he paid £4,500 cash  into the newly-opened 
ISA, as he says he did. On balance, however, I think he must  be mistaken in his recollection. 
I note that Mrs Ps statement records that he said he was dealing with other business with 
TSB at the time, so it may be that his recollection is unclear. I dont believe though  that I can 
safely conclude that Mr D did make  a cash deposit  as he believes he did. It follows  that I 
cant properly recommend that TSB adjust the account balance  as hes asked  it to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to take any further  steps to resolve  Mr 
Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
D to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9154762