K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy about Cigna  Insurance Services (Europe)  Limiteds  decision not to renew 
his accidental death policy.
background
On 1 December  1994 Mr V started  a Cigna  accidental death policy through  his bank. At the 
time he was in his mid-fifties and working as a school crossing patrol. The policy would pay 
the sum assured to his estate in the event of Mr Vs death from an accident. It also provided  
an additional  sum if death was caused  by public  transport.
A direct debit was set up to pay the premium and the policy renewed on an annual basis. At 
the time Mr V took it out, the policy covered him to the age of 80, but the age limit was 
increased at some point  to 85. 
In February 2019  Cigna wrote to Mr V (and all other  customers with those policies) giving 
notice it would no longer provide this type of policy. So Mr V wouldnt be able to renew  the 
policy when it expired in November 2019. Cigna said this notice period was to enable him to 
obtain cover  elsewhere  if he wished.  
Mr V was unhappy at Cignas decision.  He had been paying his premiums for more  than 
twenty years  and had expected the policy to continue  until he was 85. So he complained  and 
cancelled the policy. He asked Cigna to consider  refunding his premiums  as he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. He pointed  out he hadnt ever claimed  on the policy. 
Cigna explained  it had taken the commercial decision  to withdraw from this market, and it 
had given him as much  notice as possible. But as the cover had been in place through  the 
life of the policy and would have  paid out if a valid claim had been made, they didnt agree 
any refund  was due. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and while she sympathised with Mr Vs 
situation, she didnt  feel the complaint could be upheld. The policy had been renewed on an 
annual basis  since inception. So each year both Mr V and Cigna could decide whether to 
renew it. She considered Cigna was entitled  to use its commercial  judgement  about  the type 
of policies its prepared  to offer. And she couldnt compel them  to provide cover to Mr V. 
Mr V wanted  to know where  his money  had gone. He also wanted Cigna to refund 75% of 
his premiums on humanitarian grounds. The investigator explained all premiums are pooled 
to fund any valid claims. And Mr Vs policy would have paid out in the event of his accidental 
death. So overall she didnt think it would be fair for Cigna to refund  his premiums. As 
agreement couldnt  be reached its come to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
This complaint isnt about the sale of the policy and whether it was suitable for Mr V (which  
would be against  his bank).  Its about Cignas decision to withdraw from the personal 
Ref: DRN98346732accident insurance market. And while I understand Mr Vs disappointment I dont think  Cigna 
has treated him unfairly. 
Mr V says he didnt realise  his policy was renewable on an annual  basis as he rarely 
received his renewal  notices. But I can see the original policy document states the renewal 
date is 1 December  1995 and annually thereafter.  The monthly premium at the time the 
policy started was £2.97, and it was £6.50  at the last renewal. So even if Mr V didnt receive 
every renewal notice Im satisfied he knew or ought  to have known his policy  renewed  on an 
annual basis. 
I think Cigna  was entitled to take the commercial  decision not to provide personal  accident 
insurance any longer  after his last renewal. Even  though the upper age limit was increased  
at some point to 85, I dont think there  was ever a promise  that renewal of the policy was 
guaranteed. 
Cigna gave Mr V nine months notice before his policy came up for renewal. And their letter 
gave him some advice  about how to go about seeking cover  from an alternative  provider  if 
he wished, which I think was fair. I dont think Cigna is obliged  to continue to provide cover to 
Mr V after November. And in any case Mr V has cancelled the policy  early  which  hes 
entitled to do. But I dont  think  its fair or reasonable to expect a refund of premiums when 
the policy would have paid out had a valid claim been made  whilst  it remained in force.
So for the reasons given above  I dont uphold this complaint
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9834673