K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss C complained to Santander  UK Plc (Santander) that they had been  mis-sold 
a Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance  (MPPI).
background
Mr B and Miss C took out a mortgage  with Santander and at the same time took out an 
MPPI policy that was paid for monthly.  
In 2012 Mr B and Miss C complained to Santander that the MPPI  had been  mis-sold. 
Santander didnt  agree the policy was mis-sold but in dealing with the complaint Santander 
had sent out wrong information.  So it said it would pay £50.00  for the trouble and upset 
caused by its error.
Mr B and Miss C brought their complaint to this service. The complaint was delayed  awaiting 
the outcome of a Supreme Court Case, as it was possible the complaint was affected  by this 
court case.
Following the outcome  of the Supreme Court  Case and the Financial Conduct Authority 
introduction of new rules, Santander made  an offer in relation to repayment of commission 
and profit share by Mr B and Miss C that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums paid. 
Santander offered  £18.02 for this. Mr B and Miss C were not happy with the offer and so the 
complaint was passed to me for consideration of all issues. 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  on 24 April 2019.  A copy of that 
provisional decision is attached to, and forms part of, this final decision. The full background 
and details of the complaint are set out in that provisional decision.
Mr B and Miss C have responded to my provisional decision indicating they are not happy 
with my findings. 
Santander has made no further submissions following receipt of my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr B and Miss Cs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought the policy wasnt  mis-sold which means  
Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss C. The full 
reasons I reached  this outcome  are set out in my provisional decision and I have  seen no 
new information to indicate I should  change the outcome I reaches with regard to the PPI not 
being mis-sold.
But Santander agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because  it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium). 
Santander worked out that the amount  of commission and profit  share over 50% was £18.02 
and I thought how it had done this was fair. I also said the additional £50.00  for the trouble 
Ref: DRN92718442and upset caused by the error Santander made  when originally dealing with this complaint 
was fair.
I set out in full in my provisional  decision,  which is attached and forms part of this decision, 
what I had found  and was intending  to do based on the information I had seen. Although 
Mr B and Miss C have said they are unhappy with my decision they have provided no new 
information or evidence to support  why they do not agree with it or why I should change my 
findings. 
They also said that they have never received the £50.00 Santander offered for the trouble 
and upset caused by its error in dealing with the complaint. 
I indicated in my provisional decision that if this £50.00 hadnt already been paid it should be 
paid now. Santander  has not responded to confirm  if it made any payment and it has not 
provided any information about  this. So I can only assume that this has not been  received by 
Mr B and Miss C and I think in all the circumstances Santander should pay this amount now. 
As no additional evidence or information  has been provided by either  party I can see no 
reason to change  my provisional findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that the MPPI was not mis-sold  so I am not upholding that part of the 
complaint. 
But Santander UK Plc should pay compensation to refund any commission and profit  share 
over 50% paid as part of the MPPI premiums. If this has not yet been  paid the calculation  
should be updated. 
Also Santander UK Plc should pay an additional  £50.00 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the error  it made  when dealing with Mr B and Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92718443Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B and Miss Cs complaint is about a mis-sold Mortgage Payment  Protection Insurance  (MPPI) 
policy taken out through Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
Mr B and Miss C took out their first mortgage  with Santander in May 1995.  At the same time they 
were advised  to take out an MPPI policy that was paid for monthly. The policy  cost was initially £20.85 
and this provided a monthly benefit of £300.00 for Mr B only. The mortgage was in joint names.
In 2012 Mr B and Miss C complained to Santander that the MPPI had been mis-sold. Santander sent 
a letter  saying  it upheld the complaint but no compensation was due as Mr B and Miss C hadnt paid 
any premiums  for the policy.
Mr B and Miss C were  unhappy with this response and brought their complaint to this service. 
Santander then wrote to Mr B and Miss C and said it had made an error in the letter it had sent to 
them. It now said it had now found more  information and the policy  hadnt been mis-sold and so no 
compensation was due. Santander also said it would pay £50.00 for the trouble and upset caused for 
its error in sending out the wrong response initially.
Mr B and Miss C were  still not happy as they still said the policy had been mis-sold. 
In January 2013 we recommended that the mis-sale  should be upheld.  Santander did not accept the 
reasons for the uphold recommendation and asked for this to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
The complaint was then delayed awaiting the outcome of a Supreme  Court Case, as it was 
considered this complaint  could be affected by this court case.
The complaint was reviewed in 2016 and having considered the response from Santander to the 
original view the adjudicator  said they thought the mis-sale complaint  should not be upheld.
There was a further  wait to ascertain  if any commission  refund would  be due to Mr B and Miss C as a 
result of the Supreme  Court  Case and the Financial  Conduct Authority  introduction of new rules  about 
this.
Santander then made an offer in relation to repayment of excess commission to Mr B and Miss C of 
£18.02. They were  not happy  with the offer and the complaint has been passed to me for 
consideration of all issues.  
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
I have looked carefully at the information provided from the time of sale and also considered  the 
responses by Santander following the first view from this service that the MPPI may have been mis-
sold. And I currently think that this policy wasnt mis-sold and I shall explain why I have reached that 
outcome.
Mr B and Miss C made their mortgage application in branch. Santander has said that the mortgage 
application would have been completed on a computer with the customers and any supplementary 
Ref: DRN92718444information would have been entered  by the customers, prior to signing the application. So the form 
has both computerised and hand written text.
I dont know exactly what was said to Mr B and Miss C at the meeting  but the box on the mortgage 
application has been ticked by a computer  entry  to show they were responding to the question  Do 
you wish to take out Paymentcare? And they have indicated yes.
This application form provides no detailed information  about  the policy, the costs or the amount of 
cover and who it covered.  It merely states that the cover is strongly  recommended  and the policy is 
designed to help safeguard mortgage payments  if the applicants are unable to work as a result of 
accident, sickness or involuntary  redundancy. It goes on to say that if the yes box is ticked a fact 
sheet explaining Paymentcare  and an application form would be made available.
Santander says this all indicates it was made clear  to Mr B and Miss C that they had a choice about 
taking out the policy. And I agree that looks to be the case.  Mr B and Miss C have also told us that 
they recall a lot of discussion about taking out the MPPI took place during the meeting  when 
completing all the forms.
I think  Santander  recommended  this policy. That meant it had to take reasonable steps to make sure 
it was suitable for Mr B and Miss Cs circumstances. It also had to give clear enough  information  so 
that they could decide for themselves whether or not they wanted the policy.
Having looked at Mr B and Miss Cs circumstances  at the time and the terms and conditions of the 
policy, I cant  say the policy was unsuitable. As Santander has pointed  out, they were first time buyers 
who now had the additional costs of running a home. And I think its likely in their particular 
circumstances that they would have found the security  and cover the policy offered  beneficial if theyd 
needed it.
I cant  be sure that even  though  Mr B and Miss C ticked to say that wanted to take out the cover that 
they had been informed about any restrictions of the policy or the fact that the cover benefit  could be 
taken out to be split between them, rather than just for Mr B. But having thought  about their 
circumstances and employment benefits at the time, I think they would  have found the policy 
beneficial to provide the cover just for Mr B. He also wasnt  caught by any of the restrictions of the 
policy, such as suffering from a medical  condition or in relation to the nature of his employment. 
None of the forms completed gave any indication  of the cost of the policy, but this was discussed as it 
has been entered in the Budget  Planner document that was completed as part of the affordability 
review. The monthly  amount  also appeared on Mr B and Miss Cs bank statements as a separate  
amount each month after they took out the policy. And this was paid every month from 1995 to 2006 
when Mr B and Miss C cancelled the policy. They do not seem to have questioned the amount or 
thought about cancelling the policy before 2006.
So although full detailed information may not have been given at the time Mr B and Miss C took out 
the policy,  I dont think there was anything that wouldve  affected their decision to take out the MPPI if 
the information had been set out more clearly and fully. If they had needed to make  a claim they 
should have received the benefit  of £300 per month and the policy offered reasonable value when 
looking at the benefits  against costs.
So taking everything into account,  I dont think  the policy  was mis-sold.
Ive also then looked at the offer of excess commission that Santander has made in relation to the 
new rules  of the FCA following the Supreme Court Case.
Only the commission or profit share over 50% has to be refunded.  And in this case  the amount 
relating to this was often less than 50%. I can see from the calculations Santander has provided  that 
the amount of commission  over 50% only started in 2004 and in total came to excess  commission and 
profit share  of £9.71.
Ref: DRN92718445As well as refunding  this amount of this excess commission, Santander has included some 8% simple 
interest to compensation Mr B and Miss C for being out of pocket  for this amount. So in total the offer 
came to £18.02.
I note Mr B and Miss C have  expressed concern as to how Santander can only have made  a profit  of 
such a small amount when they were paying over £20.00 for more than 11 years. This compensation 
isnt refunding  all profits made by Santander.  As I have indicted it is only what is deemed excess  
commission and profit share of over 50% of the total individual premium paid each month that is 
deemed unfair and needs to be returned.
I note that when Mr B and Miss C first raised  their complaint with Santander they were  sent a letter 
upholding their complaint but offering no commission. Santander agreed this letter was wrongly sent 
and offered £50.00 for the trouble and upset this may have caused.
I dont know if this £50.00 was ever paid by Santander to Mr B and Miss C. I think Santander should  
pay some  compensation  for the trouble  and upset this may have caused and if this £50.00 wasnt paid 
previously it should be paid now.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, but subject to the responses  of both parties, I currently think 
that the MPPI in this complaint wasnt mis-sold. I also think the compensation worked out by 
Santander UK Plc to refund the excess commission and profit  share is fair. 
I also intend  to direct that Santander UK Plc should pay the £50.00 offered for the trouble  and upset  
caused by their initial response  to this complaint  if this amount has not already been paid.  
This is subject to any further information that is provided  by either  party  by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9271844