K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold  him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision,  which  I issued in 
January 2019.  Its attached here and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to send me any further  information they wished me to consider. 
Egg didnt  have anything further  to add and accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr B did not 
respond at all.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further they wished me to take into account  I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings  that the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
I dont think Mr B lost out as a result of anything Egg mightve done wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint, so it follows that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. As explained in my provisional decision, 
Egg has already  paid back  a sum to Mr B in relation to commission  and profit  share. 
Therefore I do not direct  any further compensation is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a credit card online with Egg in 2003. At the same time he bought a PPI policy
which wouldve helped cover his credit card repayments if he couldnt  work.
Mr B says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent. He also says he was told
he had to have it and felt pressured into taking it.
The adjudicator thought that Egg hadnt given Mr B enough information  about  the cost and
benefits of the policy, and that if it had Mr B wouldnt have bought the policy.
Ref: DRN90898632Egg disagreed  with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Bs case. Having done so, Im not intending on
upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
I think  Egg made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out,
although I can understand why he cant remember this now. Mr B completed his credit card
application online and Egg has provided  screenshots of what he wouldve  seen.  He had a
clear choice about whether to take the PPI and could  not have progressed through his
application without making a decision about it. The boxes were not pre-populated to select
PPI.
Mr B didnt have any contact with any Egg employees, so I dont think  he wouldve been  led
to believe he had to have the PPI to get the credit as he suggests. Theres nothing in the
online application process to suggest this was the case, either.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it
did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. I
agree with the adjudicator that its likely  Mr B didnt get all the information he ideally
shouldve had. For example,  I dont  think the overall  cost was made  clear enough. But this
doesnt mean  that I should automatically uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I have to think  about  what
he wouldve done if hed had all the information.
It looks like Mr B wanted this type of cover. And I think hed have understood enough about
the policy  to know that it wouldve helped  cover his repayments if he couldnt  work. The
adjudicator thought that Mr B had enough in savings to mean that if hed understood the cost
he wouldnt have taken it.
I disagree. Mr B didnt have any sick pay or redundancy pay available  to him other than the
statutory minimum. Mr B says that he had savings worth  at least  12 months of his salary. But
when he first talked to Egg about this complaint he told it that he didnt have any savings.
We queried this with Mr B and he told us that he didnt have evidence  of his savings  at the
time of sale,  but that he did own a second property. I have no reason  to think Mr B didnt
own this at the time of sale. But I dont think Mr B wouldve thought it reasonable to sell the
property to meet  his credit  card repayments.  And I dont think this asset was easy  to realise.
So I dont think even if Mr B understood the cost fully that hed have  changed his mind about
buying the policy.
So I dont think Mr B lost out as a result  of anything Egg mightve done wrong which means
Egg doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Egg has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because  when the policy was
sold, Egg expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr B, that was
unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN90898633my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the policy wasnt mis-sold, so Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading
as Egg, doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But it does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so if my decision
becomes final I wont award any further compensation.
3
Both parties are invited to submit any further  evidence  or representations  they wish me to
consider by 25 February 2019 before I make  my final decision.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9089863