K820x#14complaint
Mr J feels that ICICI Bank UK Plc has treated him unfairly in the way it dealt with him when 
he called  it for some  information in January 2019.
background
Mr J rang ICICI  on 21 January 2019  to get some  information about  historical  transactions. 
He feels he wasnt dealt  with as he should  have  been and didnt get called back within the 
timeframe agreed.  He feels  he was treated unfairly  by ICICI. So Mr J complained.
ICICI apologised and said it would  credit his account with £20 to reflect  what had happened. 
Mr J didnt think that was enough so he complained to this service.
The investigator did not agree with Mr J and said ICICIs  response was reasonable. As Mr J 
remains unhappy his complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
I should add that I appreciate Mr J is making another complaint about  this business. And I 
can see that this process has been  explained  to Mr J previously. As a consequence I am 
only dealing  with Mr Js call with ICICI which Ive mentioned above and the related matters.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
ICICI has apologised for the customer service  provided. It has also acknowledged  the delays 
that occurred. So its clear to me that the facts of what happened are largely agreed.  And to 
reflect this apology it said it would credit Mr Js account with £20. Mr J hasnt argued that 
there were any substantial consequences  of the customer service to him. And I note that he 
didnt have any significant or persuasive arguments  against  the standpoint taken by our 
investigator. Nor has he challenged  the events  as described.
I can see that Mr J suggested a £100 better reflects what happened here. But I do not agree. 
There is no persuasive evidence of significant  distress or inconvenience being caused  to 
Mr J. I say this because  Mr J hasnt  persuasively  described any such distress or 
inconvenience by the customer service from ICICI.  I do think the apology made and offer 
given suitably addresses what has happened.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mr J wants to hear. But I think  that ICICI has made 
good for what happened here. Consequently I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against ICICI Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Ref: DRN91594122Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9159412