K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss S says Barclays Bank  UK Plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Miss S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. The credit  card 
application that was completed included a separate section about  PPI. This included the 
option to say yes or no to take out the PPI. Miss Ss form has the yes option selected.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   
she told us she was in good health and was in permanent,  full time employment. She 
also seems to have had a need  for the cover given what shes told us about her sick pay 
and other means to make the repayments if she wasnt working. She would only receive 
her sick pay for a limited period of time and, although I accept she might  have been able 
to sell her car or ask her family for help,  the PPI would mean she wouldnt have to. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN96839682My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2019.
Claire Allison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9683968