K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the way National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled  
their accounts and the accounts of their business,  A, including  the decision to close  the 
accounts and its pursuit  of the balances outstanding.
background
Mr and Mrs H, and A (the partnership they ran), have held accounts with NatWest for a 
number of years, including several secured loans held by A.
In February 2013,  A repaid the most recent secured  loan it had with NatWest  (account 
number ending *9373).
When that loan was repaid, NatWest wrote to Mr and Mrs H saying funds had been  received 
from their solicitors and the relevant charge, held as security, would be removed. It also 
asked if the business current account,  held by A, was still required.  
Mr and Mrs H replied confirming they still required the business  current account for A. 
NatWest sent a letter on 19 March 2013  saying it noted their comments  and the account  will 
remain open until such time as you advise it is no longer  required.
In July 2013 NatWest  took the decision to end its banking  relationship  with A and 
Mr and Mrs H. It wrote  to them giving 60 days notice that their remaining accounts  would  be 
closed.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  with this decision and appealed. NatWest did not change its 
decision and the remaining  accounts were closed  in September 2013.
At that time A only held the business  current account (number ending  *3334) discussed in 
the letters from February and March 2013.  This account had a credit  balance of £371.65. 
Mr H had a current account  in his sole name (*3296). This account was approximately 
£34,300 overdrawn. 
There was an Advantage  Private MasterCard  (*1041), held in Mr Hs name.  This account  
had no outstanding balance when closed.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy that the accounts  had been closed and made  a formal 
complaint to NatWest.  They said the information given in March  2013 conflicted with the 
decision to close the accounts. They were also unhappy with how the outstanding balance 
on Mr Hs current  account came  about.  They explained that this was largely made up of 
payments to cover the spending  on card account  (*1041)  which they said was for As 
business purposes and should  always have been  in As name. So, they felt A should  be 
responsible for this balance, rather than Mr H personally. Mr and Mrs H also said money had 
been moved between A and Mr Hs accounts  without their permission.  And they said that 
they were unhappy  NatWest had declined a face to face meeting to discuss the accounts  as 
well as with how it, and its collection agents,  had pursued the outstanding  balance.
In response NatWest acknowledged  that the information given in March  2013 conflicted with 
the decision to close the account.  It also accepted  that when  Mr and Mrs H initially  raised 
their concerns it directed them to the incorrect department. And it said, while the way it 
Ref: DRN92543032contacts customers to collect  outstanding balances was in line with relevant  regulations,  as 
there was more than one department involved, given the multiple  accounts,  it couldnt be 
certain about the number of attempted contacts it had made each day. So, it accepted it 
mayve contacted Mr and Mrs H more times than it should have. As a result, it offered £350 
compensation for the upset caused by this. 
But it didnt think the decision  to close the accounts  was incorrect as this could be taken at 
any time or that it had calculated the balances incorrectly. NatWest also said it had not made  
a mistake by declining a face to face meeting,  as the accounts were no longer branch based. 
And it said it could find no record of money  being moved between the accounts without 
Mr and Mrs Hs permission. 
Unhappy with NatWests  response,  Mr and Mrs H asked  our service to look into their 
complaint. They explained they felt the accounts  in Mr Hs name  had been mis-sold.  And 
they dont agree with how these accounts  were operated and administered by NatWest.  In 
particular they were unhappy NatWest  had allowed the current account  to become 
overdrawn by making repayments to the card and that this had impacted on Mr Hs credit 
file.
While the complaint has been with our service, Mr and Mrs H have set out additional 
concerns. Theyve  said that the problems  between themselves, A and NatWest  had started 
when a loan was dishonoured.  Mr and Mrs H have  also explained that they have further 
concerns having  again  been pursued recently for the outstanding balance from account  
*3296. Theyve said they consider the debt to now be unenforceable  and statute barred. 
They are unhappy  with NatWests response  to a subject access  request (SAR), made as a 
result of them being pursued  for the balance again.  And lastly, having  received documents 
as part of the SAR, they believe that NatWest has signed documents  on their behalf,  which  
leads them to believe that some of their and As other accounts  mayve been mis-sold.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision in August 2020.  Ill summarise my findings here.
what I was considering as part of my investigation
I found that the events around the dishonoured loan,  which  Mr and Mrs H had referred to 
and asked us to consider here,  had already  been  considered by our service as part of a 
previous complaint. And an ombudsman had already made  a final decision in relation to this 
matter. As a result, I didnt  feel it was appropriate to consider  these issues again here.
I also didnt think I could  consider the points raised in relation to Mr and Mrs Hs more  recent  
dealings with NatWest   whether the outstanding debt is enforceable, its response  to a SAR 
and whether other accounts not contested  previously under this complaint had potentially 
been mis-sold  as NatWest hadnt been given the opportunity to address these concerns. 
So, I felt these would have to be raised separately  as a new complaint.
So, this meant what  I was considering as part of this complaint was limited  to;
How the outstanding balance on the accounts in Mr Hs name came about and if this is 
correct, including  whether the accounts were  mis-sold, set up incorrectly or if payments 
had been managed  incorrectly
Ref: DRN92543033The decision by NatWest to end its business relationship  with Mr and Mrs H and A in 
2013 and whether  this was fair
How NatWest corresponded  with Mr and Mrs H and A in the months after this decision 
and whether it shouldve done  anything differently in dealing with their concerns or 
requesting repayment
the accounts belonging to Mr H
Given that the current account and charge card in Mr Hs name were taken out around 
2002, there was not a great deal of information  from the time still available, which I didnt  
think was unreasonable, as business are not obliged  to keep records indefinitely.
Sample terms and conditions were available that set out requirements in order to hold an 
account of the same  type as *3296.  These  said that a salary needed to be paid into the 
account and that a charge  card must  also be held.
I felt that the requirement to have a salary indicated that the account was more likely to 
be personal that a business account,  so I didnt think NatWest had made an error by 
setting this up in Mr Hs name rather than As.
And I felt that the requirement  to hold a charge card supported  that *1041 was always a 
charge card account and was always in Mr Hs name. Mr and Mrs H argued  they 
believed it to be a credit card and be the responsibility of A. But none of the information 
Id seen supported  that. And I felt the fact it was a charge  card was further supported by 
how the accounts had operated  as I could see the full balance  had been repaid 
monthly for some years, as required for a charge  card account. So, I didnt think this 
account had been  set up incorrectly  either.
The information Id seen suggested that both accounts, in Mr Hs name, were operated 
and run, with Mr H having use and benefit  of the accounts and account *1041 being 
repaid by direct debit from account *3296, for almost eleven years before  any concerns 
about how they were sold were  raised.  So, while I couldnt be sure how the accounts 
were opened or what was said at the time, I didnt think  I could reasonably say, on 
balance of probabilities, that the accounts had been  mis-sold.  And, while Mr H mayve,  at 
his discretion,  made payments  from accounts  to *3296 and *1041 to benefit A, I thought 
NatWest was entitled to hold Mr H responsible for these amounts.
As I didnt think theyd been  mis-sold  or incorrectly set up, I didnt think  NatWest was 
wrong to report information about these accounts to credit  reference agencies  to be 
reflected on Mr Hs credit file. And I hadnt seen anything to suggest the information it 
had reported was incorrect. 
I could see that a significant amount of money has been  deposited  into the current 
account in Mr Hs name (*3296) from As account over the years.  But I hadnt seen 
anything to suggest any of these transactions  took place without Mr and Mrs Hs 
authority. So, without further details from them around which  transactions  they felt they 
hadnt agreed to, I couldnt reasonably say NatWest  had moved money between the 
accounts incorrectly.
As card *1041 was a charge card, the balance had to be repaid in full each month,  from 
a nominated account. Id seen evidence that this was done  from account *3296 without 
significant problem  for a number  of years. I thought it was likely Mr and Mrs H were 
Ref: DRN92543034aware of this arrangement. And I hadnt seen anything to indicate theyd raised any 
concerns with this previously. I didnt think NatWest  had done anything wrong by 
continuing to request  monthly repayments, from the same nominated account, whenever 
there was an outstanding  balance on card *1041.
The balance outstanding on account *3296 when it was closed, was largely  made up of 
repayments to account *1041. As Mr H was the holder of both accounts, repayments 
continuing from account *3296  had not changed  the position in terms of liability  for the 
principle sum. And it wasnt  in dispute that Mr H had continued to use card *1041.
And based on the penalty interest rates potentially applicable had repayments not been 
made to the charge card monthly, and what Mr H had said about  requiring use of the 
card, I didnt think NatWest has put Mr H in a worse  position  than he otherwise wouldve 
been by allowing the use of the charge card and repayments from the current  account to 
continue as long as it did.
the decision to close the accounts  and end the banking  relationship
NatWest was entitled to make  a commercial decision about  whether it wanted to 
continue to provide  services to Mr and Mrs H and A. And from the information Id seen 
I thought NatWest had provided the required amount of notice to Mr and Mrs H, about its 
decision.
I could  see NatWest had written  to Mr and Mrs H in March 2013  and said As account  
would remain  open for as long as Mr and Mrs H required. And this did conflict  with 
NatWests decision  in July 2013.  But I didnt think the letter sent by NatWest in March  
2013, meant it wasnt entitled  to take the decision  to close  the accounts at a later date,  
which is what it ultimately did. 
I did agree that this was likely to have been  upsetting to Mr and Mrs H, and that NatWest  
couldve been clearer in the March 2013  letter that this could still happen. Overall though 
I felt the offer made by NatWest  in respect of the upset caused by this (£250 of the £350  
compensation NatWest  originally offered) was a fair way to address this.
As account was closed with a credit balance.  I could see that NatWest  had attempted to 
return this to Mr and Mrs H in the form of a cheque. So, I thought NatWest had done  the 
right thing.  But I noted Mr and Mrs H had not successfully cashed the cheque,  so the 
balance still needed to be returned.  I didnt  think NatWest was required  to pay interest on 
this amount as the problem with the balance being returned  was not due to an error  by it.
NatWests communication  with Mr and Mrs H and its initial pursuit  of the outstanding balance 
I could see Mr and Mrs Hs preference was for a face to face meeting. But I thought 
NatWest was entitled to set its own processes  for how it deals with customers and 
accounts and wasnt obliged to agree to the meeting. And I hadnt  seen anything to 
suggest it treated  Mr and Mrs H differently to other customers in a similar position. So, 
I didnt think its decision was unfair.
While  NatWest was entitled to decide to deal with matters  over the phone,  it still needed 
to act reasonably.
Ref: DRN92543035It appeared NatWest  accepted it may have acted unfairly in terms of how and the 
frequency at which it and its agents  communicated with Mr and Mrs H. And I accepted 
Mr and Mrs H likely  found this upsetting.
While  I was conscious there was an outstanding balance and that, without  a repayment 
proposal, NatWest was entitled to request repayment, I thought NatWest shouldve done  
more to revisit how it was communicating  with Mr and Mrs H. This was because  contact 
seemed to have  continued at the same rate for some months  after they initially  indicated  
they were unhappy about this. So, to put things right I though NatWest should  pay £200 
for the upset caused by this (it had originally offered £50 in respect  of this).
As part of the initial complaint, NatWest acknowledged that it gave Mr and Mrs H 
incorrect information about which department they needed to contact. £50 of the 
compensation it originally offered was to address this. I accepted this wouldve caused 
Mr and Mrs H some frustration. But it didnt seem to have  prevented them  from making 
their complaint or bringing it to our service. So, I thought the offer made by NatWest  was 
fair.
putting things  right
To resolve the complaint, I felt NatWest should  pay Mr and Mrs H, on behalf of A, 
£371.65  equivalent  to the credit balance of As account when  it was closed. I also felt it 
should pay Mr and Mrs H £500 for the upset caused by the errors  made  (this figure 
included the £350  NatWest had previously offered   which hadnt  yet been paid).
Given the previous  problems Mr and Mrs H had encountered with cashing cheques  
relating to the credit balance I thought that, if Mr and Mrs H both provide consent  and 
agree on how the money should be paid  to one of them or in equal  amounts to both  it 
would be reasonable for NatWest to follow those  instructions.
responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
NatWest did not respond to my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with my provisional  findings. 
In summary,  they were not happy  that Id found in favour of NatWest  on a number of points 
where there  wasnt a lot of evidence available. They believe  NatWest  had more information 
available and said it had been obstructive when they had requested  this. Theyve  said they 
think this action means NatWest had breached  its contract with them as it has not provided a 
duty of care.  They also dont think it has acted in their interests when operating  the accounts.
Mr and Mrs H also feel NatWest has misled our service. They felt this because, in my 
provisional findings Id mentioned an overdraft limit on Mr Hs current account,  but they said 
that the account did not have the benefit of an overdraft  limit.
Ref: DRN92543036Mr and Mrs H say they still believed account *1041 was a credit card rather  than a charge 
card. And they still consider that the balance was As responsibility. They  didnt agree that it 
had been paid by direct debit from Mr Hs NatWest  current account but was instead  paid 
directly by A. And they said that Id acknowledged that the private  account  (by which  
I understand they mean Mr Hs current account *3296) was funding  the business account 
(As account *3334) confirming the debt owed belonged to A.
In summary  they felt I should find that NatWest acted negligently in opening  the accounts, as 
they feel they were  misled  about the nature of the accounts. And that it acted negligently in 
the operation  of the accounts.
With regard to my findings around  the account  closure and actions of NatWest  in the months 
following this, Mr and Mrs H didnt provide any additional information or comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where information is limited or unavailable, I have to decide  on the balance of probabilities  
what I think is most likely  to have happened. I do this by taking into account the information 
that I do have as well as the arguments made by both parties. Information not being held by 
a business does not necessarily mean  I need to find against it.
There isnt a great deal of information available from the point the two accounts in Mr Hs 
name were opened. And some information following that time is also limited. Mr and Mrs H 
have said by not retaining information, they feel NatWest has breached its contract  with 
them. But I dont agree. As I said in my provisional decision, businesses  arent obliged to 
keep records indefinitely  and usually retain  documents for a period of six years.  Even when 
the concerns about these accounts were first raised by Mr and Mrs H in 2013, this was 
significantly more than six years  since the accounts had been opened. So, I dont  think  it is 
unreasonable that there is not great  deal of documentation available about  the account  
opening or that not all information about the operation  of the accounts since has been 
retained. And I havent seen anything  that leads me to think  the relevant, available 
information has not been provided by NatWest.
Mr Hs accounts
Ive seen sample terms and conditions for account  *3296. These show that a condition  of 
holding the current  account are that a salary  needs to be paid into it. So, Im satisfied  that 
this type of account is generally a personal  current account. So, I dont think NatWest  made  
an error by setting this up in Mr Hs name or by reporting information  to credit reference  
agencies in respect of this account  in Mr Hs name.
Another condition  of holding this account was the requirement to also hold a charge card.  
And the statements for card *1041 Ive seen explained that the full balance  would  be claimed 
from a nominated bank  account each month  a feature  of a charge card. Based on this Im 
satisfied that account  *1041 was also correctly opened and reported in Mr Hs name  as a 
condition of holding  account *3296   and that it is a charge card account.
Ref: DRN92543037Mr and Mrs H maintain  this was a credit  card and was used primarily for the benefit of A and 
should be its responsibility. Theyve  provided a promotional leaflet to support that this was a 
credit card. So, they feel it was mis-sold.
Ive reviewed the promotional leaflet, which does  refer to a credit card. But the account 
information and statements  Ive seen suggests  this is a different  type of account to card 
*1041, held in Mr Hs name. This leaflet may well have been  provided to Mr and Mrs H to 
highlight another type of account they mayve wanted to consider taking. But this isnt 
enough for me to say that card *1041 has been set up incorrectly and should instead  have 
been a credit card.
Mr and Mrs H have said that I acknowledged  in my provisional decision that Mr Hs private 
account was funding As business account. They  say this has been their argument all along, 
that the accounts were opened for this purpose. So, this means  that the balance is As 
responsibility rather than theirs.  
I didnt make a finding on this point in my provisional decision. I observed  that the 
information Id seen and commented  on suggested quite the contrary.  I explained in my 
provisional decision that I could see that a significant amount of money has been  deposited  
into the current account in Mr Hs name (*3296)  from As account over the years   indeed it 
appears there was a weekly standing order of between £500 and £750 from May 2006  to 
November 2011.  And I hadnt seen any evidence any money moved between the accounts 
had been transferred without Mr and Mrs Hs authority   which  is still the case. But in any 
event, I dont think how the accounts were  subsequently operated by Mr and Mrs H  
whether in support of As accounts  or not - means that they necessarily were mis-sold.  And 
I think its likely they knew that the accounts  were in Mr Hs name, so he was liable for them.
I dont know what was discussed when the accounts  were  taken out. But if the accounts 
were opened  without Mr and Mrs Hs authority or they felt they should  not have been in 
Mr Hs name, Id have expected to see this issue raised while  the accounts were  in place. 
But what  Ive seen  suggests that the accounts  ran, in Mr Hs name with him having use of 
them, for almost eleven years before any concerns  about how they were set up was raised. 
Which leads me to think that Mr and Mrs H were aware of and happy  with how the accounts  
were operating  until the issue of the account  closures came about.  So, on balance, I dont 
think the accounts were  mis-sold or set up incorrectly  by NatWest.
Mr and Mrs H say they also dont  agree that card *1041 was repaid by direct debit. They 
have provided  vouchers  which  they say show that A was repaying the card  so it was 
responsible for the debt. So, they are unhappy that Mr H is being held liable for this.
As Ive said already, I think  account *1041 was set up correctly  in Mr Hs name.  So as the 
account holder,  I think NatWest is entitled  to hold him liable for the outstanding balance. And 
Mr and Mrs H did not challenge this for over ten years  so seemed happy with the 
arrangement.
Ive seen account statements for account *3296 going  back a number of years.  And these 
indicate that card *1041 was repaid by direct  debit from that account.  Ive reviewed the 
vouchers Mr and Mrs H have provided.  But I dont agree that these  show  that A was 
repaying the balance on account *1041  separately. The vouchers are for cash advances  
from account *1041, so represent  withdrawals  rather than payments to the account. So, Im 
satisfied that repayments  to account  *1041  came from Mr Hs current account *3296,  via 
Ref: DRN92543038direct debit, and this arrangement continued for a number of years.  And the information 
provided doesnt lead me to think that A was liable for the balance, in place of Mr H.
Mr and Mrs H argue they didnt agree to that direct debit. But on balance,  considering  how 
long this arrangement  was ongoing, I think its likely Mr H did agree that account *3296 would 
be the nominated  account from which the outstanding debt on account *1041 would be 
repaid, and that this would happen by direct debit  although I accept they may not 
remember this given  how long ago the accounts were opened.
Mr H has said,  and I accept, that he used card *1041 to support  A. But how he chose to use 
the card or what he chose  to spend the funds on doesnt mean that A is liable in his place. 
The card was in his name, so whatever purpose  he used it for, he was still personally liable. 
And as Ive said, Im satisfied he was aware of this and I dont think  the account being  set up 
this way was an error  by NatWest.
the balance due on Mr Hs accounts
Turning to the operation of the accounts and how the outstanding balances  came about 
when account  *3296 was closed in September 2013  there  was an outstanding debit balance  
of in excess of £34,300.  Mr and Mrs H say NatWest  did not act in their best interests by 
allowing this position  to accrue.
At the end of November 2011,  account  *3296 had a credit balance  of approximately £100. 
From that point however regular credits into the account stopped.
Mr H however continued to use card *1041 until October 2012, often several thousand 
pounds in each  billing  cycle. 
In line with the requirements of the charge card, repayment of the full balance was needed 
each month. NatWest continued  to debit this from the nominated account  Mr Hs current  
account *3296, as it had done for several years. 
This resulted in account *3296 becoming  significantly  overdrawn.  When the last payment 
was made  to account *1041 in October 2012, the overdrawn balance on *3296 was almost 
£32,000  made up almost entirely  of repayments to the charge card. This balance 
continued to accrue  charges until the account  closed in September  2013 with no repayments  
made to the account.
The nature of the charge  card meant  that full repayment was required each month.  I dont 
think NatWest did anything wrong  by requesting payment. And in the absence  of instructions 
to the contrary,  I dont  think it did anything wrong by requesting these repayments from the 
nominated account.  And Mr H is ultimately liable for the spending on the charge card,  as the 
account holder.  So, the principle sum being owed against the current  account  rather than the 
charge card has not changed the position  of who is liable to repay  it. 
Mr and Mrs H argue that the accounts shouldnt have been  allowed to reach this position. 
In my provisional findings I explained  why I didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong. 
As part of my explanation I said the information  Id seen indicated that account *3296 had an 
authorised overdraft of £6,000. Mr and Mrs H disputed this and provided  evidence  to the 
contrary, showing the account did not have an agreed overdraft. And they said this showed 
that NatWest had misled  our service.
Ref: DRN92543039I dont agree that NatWest has misled our service. It provided evidence that an overdraft of 
£6,000 was requested on account  *3296  in 2003. I incorrectly thought  that this had remained 
in place. But having reviewed the information again, along with the documents  provided by 
Mr and Mrs H, I can see that this was not the case and that account *3296  did not have an 
authorised overdraft from at least 2009  onwards.
Beyond this, Mr and Mrs H havent really provided anything which leads me to change  my 
opinion on whether NatWest was wrong  to allow the outstanding position  to accrue. But in 
light of my mistake regarding the overdraft limited, Ive thought  about  this again. 
Ive considered whether Mr H is in a worse position due to the level of charges and interest 
accrued as a result  of NatWest continuing  to honour the direct debit payments from the 
current account to the charge card, after the current account became overdrawn, as 
opposed to allowing the balance to accrue  on the charge card itself. But having done  so I still 
dont think he is worse  off. 
The payments to the charge card took the current account overdrawn in December 2011 and 
continued to increase the overdrawn position  until October 2012.  Charges on the 
outstanding balance then continued until the account was closed in September  2013. And 
between December 2011 and September 2013, the total amount of charges was just over 
£4,300 (effectively  the cost of the borrowing). Which is a significant amount.
But had the balance been left to accrue  on card *1041 instead,  I think its likely Mr H wouldve 
owed even more.  A charge card is supposed  to be repaid  in full each month. NatWest has 
said that if this doesnt  happen, interest  is charged  in place of a late payment fee. It has sent 
me information to show that currently the rate it charges when payment is not made  is 
approximately 3% per month. It hasnt been able to confirm  what the rate was between 2011 
and 2013. But I think it is likely the penalty  rate was similar.
Between December  2011 and October 2012,  Mr H spent over £32,700 on his charge card 
account. Had this amount  remained  outstanding on the charge card from October 2012, the 
point spending  stopped,  until September 2013,  when accounts  were closed, it appears likely 
the interest penalty  for that period alone wouldve exceeded the amount of charges applied 
to the outstanding balance on the current account.  In fact, even if the interest rate on the 
charge card had been half of the current rate, which  I think is unlikely, this would  still have 
been the case. And that doesnt account  for any additional interest that wouldve been 
applied between December 2011 and October  2012. So had the balance accrued  on the 
charge card instead  of the current account,  which Mr H was still liable for, the amount Mr H 
owed wouldve likely  been  even greater.
Ive thought about whether NatWest  should instead have stopped the use of account  *1041 
during this period  meaning the balance accrued across both accounts wouldve been 
lower. But Im not sure that wouldve been in Mr and Mrs Hs best interests. 
Mr H continued to use the card. He carried out the transactions so requested  the money. 
This was despite being aware that account *3296 was no longer being funded. So, I think he 
reasonably knew  the overall indebtedness was increasing.
Mr H has indicated he used the card in the day to day running of A  and continued  to do so 
when making these transactions. And at the time A still had a substantial  secured loan with 
NatWest that it needed to service and was still trading. Had the card been  stopped  he and 
Ref: DRN925430310Mrs H wouldve likely  had to secure additional  funding from elsewhere to support A. There is 
no guarantee they wouldve obtained this or at what rate they couldve borrowed it. So, 
based on what theyve  said,  having no access to the card mightve impacted As ability to 
trade and its ability  to pay off the sums  owed to NatWest, which  in turn Mr and Mrs H would 
ultimately be liable for as controlling partners of A. 
So overall, I dont  think I can reasonably  say that NatWest was incorrect to continue  to 
request repayment  of card *1041  from Mr Hs current  account.  Im conscious  Mr H continued 
to use and benefit from card *1041. And I dont think I can say on balance,  NatWest has put 
he and Mrs H in a worse position  that they otherwise wouldve been in. So, I dont think 
NatWest has acted  negligently  as Mr and Mrs H claim.
account closure and subsequent communication
As neither Mr and Mrs H or NatWest have provided any additional  information  in respect of 
these issues, Im not inclined to depart from my provisional findings  on these points.
I think NatWest  was entitled to take the commercial  decision  to close Mr and Mrs H and As 
accounts in July 2013. And, based on what Ive seen, I think  it provided appropriate 
notification of this decision. It couldve been  clearer in the letter it sent to them earlier  the 
same year that this could  still happen,  but I feel the £250 already offered by NatWest  for the 
upset caused  by this is fair.
I think NatWest  was entitled to take the commercial  decision  to deal with the accounts over 
the phone  after this decision was taken.
Although NatWest did attempt to return  the credit balance from As account to Mr and Mrs H 
at the time of closure,  this was unsuccessful.  As a result, I think this balance (£371.65)  still 
needs to be returned. But I dont think NatWest  is required  to pay interest  on this amount.
While there  was an outstanding amount owed to NatWest,  and no repayment proposal was 
forthcoming, I feel it couldve done more to review  how it and its agents were pursuing 
repayment at the time, especially in light of Mr and Mrs H raising concerns about this. And 
NatWest has acknowledged it cant be certain that it had followed its usual  processes.  So, 
I think it should pay Mr and Mrs H £200  for the upset caused  by this.
NatWest has acknowledged that it gave Mr and Mrs H incorrect information  about which 
departments they needed  to speak to when  they first complained. But I think  the £50 it 
offered for this mistake is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.
To resolve  things National Westminster  Bank  Plc should;
Pay Mr and Mrs H, on behalf  of A, £371.65  equivalent to the credit balance  of As 
account when  it was closed.
Pay them £500  in compensation  (this figure includes the £350  NatWest previously 
offered). This represents;
Ref: DRN925430311o£250 for the upset caused  by being given misleading information that their 
accounts would remain open, when they could still be subject to a later decision 
to end the banking relationship
o£200 for errors made  in how NatWest and its agents contacted  Mr and Mrs H to 
pursue the outstanding balance in the months after the accounts  were closed, 
and the upset this caused
o£50 for mistakes in its complaint handling  when it directed Mr and Mrs H to 
contact the incorrect  departments. 
NatWest should  act in line with Mr and Mrs Hs reasonable  instructions regarding  the method 
by which  these payments  should be made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9254303