K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a mortgage. Mr X says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax at the time, 
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Xs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr X says the policy was added without his knowledge or consent,  and its only recently that 
he discovered he had PPI. While I think what Mr X has told us are his honest recollections of 
the sale, I have  to keep in mind that this policy was sold a long time ago  around  17 years 
ago  and so without any evidence to support  what Mr X has said its difficult  to rely on this 
alone to say something untoward happened. 
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  there is little documentation  available 
from the time the PPI was sold. And in cases where this is little or no evidence I have to 
make a decision on what I think is more  likely  to have happened. Halifax says it wouldve  
only added  the PPI to Mr Xs account  with his explicit consent  and I think  thats  likely  to 
have been the case. And from what weve already seen about  how Halifax  were selling 
these types of policies at the time, I think its also likely Halifax wouldve made it clear the 
policy was a separate and optional product. And so without any stronger  evidence  to support 
what Mr X has said, I think its more  likely  than not that Halifax  made it clear that Mr X didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Mr X says Halifax  didnt recommend the PPI to him. Halifax says it did advise Mr X to take 
out the policy. As things stand, there isnt enough information to determine  this point. But 
being able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome  because, had Halifax recommended  the 
policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable recommendation to have made for the reasons I set 
out below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Halifax.
So Halifax  had to check that the PPI was right for Mr X  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Mr X says he was entitled to some sick pay at the time and he thinks  he wouldve had some  
savings in place  too  so he doesnt  think the policy was of any use to him. But upon a 
successful claim  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 months, and this wouldve been on 
top of his sick pay and savings  at the time. And as its likely this wouldve been Mr Xs 
biggest financial commitment, secured against his home, I think  it wouldve been useful for 
him to have  some additional security in place.  So I still think the policy  wouldve  been 
suitable for him.    
Ref: DRN96597942Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr X about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
As the adjudicator outlined in his assessment,  The Supreme  Court  decided a case that 
involved the commission on a PPI policy - Plevin  v Paragon Personal Finance. And the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) - who make the rules for financial businesses - introduced  
some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow  when theyre looking at PPI 
complaints that are affected by this court ruling.
This means  if businesses  expected to get a high level of commission  from the PPI - more 
than half of what the consumer paid for the policy - they should have told the consumer 
about it. If that didnt  happen, it might mean the business didnt treat the consumer fairly. 
And, in turn the business  might have to give the consumer some  of that commission  back.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements  
taken out before then which were still running  on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, your credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates - and so I dont  think Bank of 
Scotland plc have to refund any of the commission you paid on your PPI policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9659794