K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC (trading  as TSB) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr U. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out, apparently in 1993. It appears that 
Lloyds sold Mr U the policy at the same  time that he applied  for the card by filling in an 
application form.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr U disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr U has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain 
why.
Mr U says he had no knowledge  of the PPI and it wasnt  mentioned  when he applied for the 
card. I can see that, on the card application  form which he filled in and signed,  there  is tick in 
the box saying  he wanted PPI. The form says to only tick the box if you want payments 
protection. So this could  mean one of two things. Either he did want it at the time, and ticked  
the box  but has now forgotten, which wouldnt be surprising given that this was about 26 
years ago. Or someone at the bank  ticked the box without his knowledge (although the PPI 
premiums would then have appeared on his credit  card statement  though I know  not 
everyone looks at their statements carefully, so he may not have noticed or understood what  
they were.) If it was someone  at the bank,  this would of course be wrong   but it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  that this is what happened, unless there was some  supporting  
evidence. So, overall, I think its more likely Mr U did agree to the PPI, and I cant  fairly say it 
was added without  his knowledge or consent.  
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr U, which means it had a higher  standard to meet 
during the sale  it had to check the PPI was suitable for Mr Us personal circumstances. But 
it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable,  based  on what Ive seen of Mr Us circumstances at the 
time. The PPI was designed  to cover the credit card payments  for a period, if Mr U became 
unemployed or was unable to work due to sickness or disability. The PPI could have helped 
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mr Us employer sick pay. And it would have  
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr U more 
financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr U wouldnt need to fall back  on other 
resources so soon.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So, overall, the PPI was 
potentially useful. And I cant see any other reason  why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained  the PPI  the information  on the actual 
application form wasnt enough, and I dont know what other information was given at the 
time. So its possible the information Lloyds  gave wasnt as clear  and full as it should  have 
been. But I dont  think its likely, in Mr Us circumstances, that full information  about costs 
Ref: DRN99020792and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
Mr U has said he has had other  PPI complaints upheld by Lloyds. These were connected to 
loans and a mortgage he took.  I dont know the circumstances of those cases, and I can only 
look at the circumstances of this particular sale. 
Mr U said he was unemployed for a while and wasnt  given  help from the PPI at the time.  I 
dont know whether he actually made a claim at the time, but its possible he may be able to 
make a backdated claim. I have no information  to say whether a claim would succeed,  but 
Mr U should consider whether he should talk to Lloyds about  a claim. 
My overall conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold in the way Mr U believes it was. This 
means Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr U. But Lloyds has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr U because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr U about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr U, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr U.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr U any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9902079