K820x#14complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about the compensation Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has 
offered to settle  her complaint about a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) which 
was taken out alongside a credit card.
background
Ms W took out a PPI policy alongside a credit  card with Tesco in March  2000. In 2015  Ms W 
complained she was mis-sold the PPI. Tesco  upheld  her complaint and offered some 
compensation to settle the complaint. 
Mrs W said she wasnt happy with the offer. But it wasnt  until 2018  Tesco  said it would 
recalculate the compensation and then said it was willing to increase its offer by a further 
£1,074.60.
Ms W still wasnt happy with the compensation Tesco has calculated  and said she had 
received more from some other businesses. So she brought  her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what Tesco had offered was fair. Ms W didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco has agreed  to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold so Im not in this 
decision looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold.  I am considering  whether what  Tesco  
has offered to settle the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold is fair. 
Tesco has provided  to this service a copy of its full calculation that reconstructs the credit 
card account  to show what the balance wouldve been each month if the PPI had never been 
added. This calculator is in a protected format and so Tesco  will not issue  copies of this to 
consumers. 
Ms W requested a full breakdown of Tescos calculation and it provided  her with a list of 
balances, PPI charges  and interest  charged, showing each month from March  2000 through  
to March 2009, when the account was closed,  what was paid.
One issue Mrs W has been  unhappy about  is that the list of balances  she was sent in a table 
form does not match  the balances on some  old statements Ms W has and that she has sent 
to Tesco. In the table sent to Ms W the balances shown are, as stated at the top of the 
column, the Month End Balance. This isnt actually the statement balance  but the balance 
as at the calendar month end, so it will not match the statement  balances which  in Ms Ws 
case is made up to the 17th of each month.  
I can see in the full calculation provided by Tesco that the balances on the statements do 
match the balances  in the calculation.  So I would  reassure  Ms W that in calculating  the costs  
of the PPI Tesco has in its calculator used the correct figures and does  include the monthly 
statement balances correctly. It is regrettable  that it hasnt been explained to Ms W why 
Ref: DRN96838272there appeared to be a discrepancy in the figures in the table and her statement balance  
amounts.
I can also see from the calculation that Tesco worked out Ms W paid a total of £3,628.31 in 
premiums, added to her account  for the PPI. In addition to this Tesco has worked  out the 
amount of interest  that the PPI premiums caused.  This has been  calculated at the compound 
interest rate charged on the card balance and comes to £2,009.84.
The calculation Tesco has provided  shows that it has also worked  out some compensatory  
interest for times when Ms W was out of pocket  and this amount is £4,126.29. However on 
the offer letter sent to Ms W in April 2018 this figure is shown as £2,0163.15. Tesco has told 
me that this was an error  and apologised for this. Tesco is legally required to take off 
standard rate income tax from this compensatory interest.
When you add up the figures in the offer letter it can be seen that Tesco  have actually 
included the total of £4,126.29 to reach the overall compensation amount of £8,939.18  
after the tax has been taken off. And so the tax deducted of 20% is based on this £4,126.29 
figure, not on the £2,063.15 as shown in error in the letter.  This is why Ms W thinks  Tesco  
have deducted  40% for the tax and I can totally understand  why she thought this.
It seems  Ms W defaulted on repayments  to the credit card in June 2007  and no interest was 
charged on her debt from this date.  So the figure she owed remained outstanding, and did 
include the PPI costs, until March 2009  when it seems a lump  sum was paid to clear  the 
balance.
During the period from 2007 the PPI costs would have been part of the balance and so 
Ms W wasnt out of pocket in full for most of the costs of the PPI. However from when the 
payment was made in 2009 Ms W was out of pocket for the PPI costs as the amount she 
paid to the account would have cleared the total balance including  the PPI that was part of it. 
I can see from the calculation Tesco has provided  that it has paid Ms W a small amount of 
8% simple  interest each  month for being  out of pocket to 2009 and after this has worked out 
8% on the total she was out of pocket.  So I think how Tesco  has calculated the 
compensation due to Ms W is fair.
Ms W has pointed out that compared to other accounts she had with different businesses  
and the offers of compensation they provided,  she feels what  Tesco has calculated on this 
account cant be correct.  She is particularly concerned the compound  interest is incorrect.
Each account Ms W had with the various businesses  is different, had different  balances at 
different times and different  interest rates. So what one business  offers  on a totally  separate  
account doesnt make the offer from Tesco wrong  or unfair.
I would also add that the PPI cover on this account  had a maximum benefit payable and so 
the PPI premium was capped at certain  times. For example in 2003/2004 when Mrs Ws 
balance exceeded  £5,000  the cost of the PPI was a maximum of £35.00, until this benefit 
cap changed in September 2004  to £10,000  and the PPI then increased  until the next cap 
was reached.  This also would have affected  the compound interest calculation. 
As the balance increased during this capped period this increase was caused  mostly by 
Ms Ws spending  and so less proportion of the interest charged was for the PPI costs. This 
Ref: DRN96838273may not have been the case  with other  accounts  Ms W had, so the cost of the PPI and the 
interest it caused would  have  been more on those other  accounts.
Overall I think  Tesco  offer is fair in order to refund to Ms W the costs she paid for the PPI 
and to give her some  compensatory interest  for being out of pocket. And I hope some of the 
information I have  provided has clarified  Ms Ws concerns.
But Tesco has made some mistakes in the information it gave to Ms W and didnt explain 
clearly what it had done. So I can understand why Ms W wasnt happy  and felt that Tesco  
calculation must be wrong. 
Tesco has now said it is willing to pay an additional £100.00 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its errors. I think  this is a reasonable amount for the trouble and upset caused to 
Ms W.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I think what Tesco Personal Finance PLC has worked out and 
paid as compensation to Ms W for the mis-sold PPI policies is fair. 
I also think that the £100.00  Tesco Personal Finance PLC has offered to pay to Ms W for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its errors and poor information is fair and should be paid to 
Ms W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9683827