K822xcomplaint
Mr F has complained that Watford Insurance Company  Europe  Limited  unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy  without warning.
In pursuing this complaint Mr Fs been helped by a representative. But for ease of reading, 
where its appropriate to do so, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being those of 
Mr F.
On 1 July 2020 I issued  a provisional decision. For ease I've copied the majority of that 
below. I said:
background
On 6 November  2018 Mr F bought his Watford policy  from a broker.  At that time he 
mistakenly gave the broker an incorrect email  address. But on 12 November 2018 he 
contacted the broker  to amend it to his correct email address. A few days  prior to that Mr Fs 
car was impounded by the police.
On 14 November 2018 Watford spoke with the police. They told Watford that Mr Fs car was 
impounded as hed changed the cars registration with DVLA but his policy used a different 
registration.
Mr F spoke  with the broker on more than one occasion that day (14 November 2018). He 
updated the cars registration details on the policy. He also asked  if the broker could send  
details of his cover directly to the police. The broker said it couldn't  do that as it could only 
store one email  address  on the policy. Mr F asked the broker to update  his email address 
with a police  email address. The broker did that and sent Mr Fs insurance  certificate  to that 
email address.
Later that day Mr F rang the broker again  and asked if his car would be covered if it was 
impounded by police.  The broker told him that it wouldn't be.
On 16 November 2018 Watford decided to cancel Mr Fs policy  with immediate effect 
because his car had been  impounded. It sent an email advising Mr F that it had done so to 
the police  address Mr F had given the broker two days earlier. It sent the same email  to the 
incorrect address Mr F had given the broker when he took out his policy.  It also sent an 
email to the broker to say that it had cancelled  the policy and asked the broker  to post a 
cancellation letter to Mr Fs home  address.
The next day, 17 November 2018,  Mr F rang the broker to correct  another  discrepancy on 
the information it held for him. The broker amended Mr Fs details on file and sent another 
insurance certificate and schedule saying that he was covered by the policy  until 
November 2019.  It sent those  to Mr Fs correct email address. The broker  didn't tell Mr F that 
his policy  was cancelled.  Shortly after Mr Fs car was destroyed  as a result of a fire. It was 
only at that point that he learned that Watford had cancelled  his policy  the day before. 
Mr F complained about both the broker and Watford. We dealt with the complaint against the 
broker under  a different reference  number.  One of our adjudicators  looked at Mr Fs 
complaint against  Watford. She didn't think it had done anything  wrong.  Mr F didn't agree so 
his complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN98555152my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
Watford said that Mr Fs policy allows it to cancel a policy  immediately in the following  
circumstances:
If we [Watford] discover that Your Car is currently [emphasis  added] impounded by any 
government or public authority.
Watford said that as it had learned  the police had impounded Mr Fs car then it could cancel 
the policy without  warning.  But in this case Mr F had recovered  his car from the police pound 
on 14 November 2018. And Watford cancelled the policy on 16 November 2018. So the car 
wasn't currently in the police  pound when it decided to cancel Mr Fs policy  with immediate  
effect. It follows that the policy  didn't  give Watford the authority to cancel  with immediate 
effect in those circumstances. 
Further, regardless of what the policy says, I think that whether or not the car was actually in 
the police  pound at the time of the policy cancellation is significant. Thats because if a car is 
currently impounded then there is very little prospect of the policyholder  driving it 
immediately. But in this case  by the time Watford decided to cancel the policy  Mr F was 
already driving  the car again. So in cancelling the policy as it did it left Mr F to being exposed 
to drive without any insurance  cover  and without any knowledge of that. And it didn't give 
Mr F the opportunity to source alternative cover before  the car was back on the road. I don't 
think that was fair.
Also, Watford was aware that the police impounded the car because  they were concerned it 
wasn't effectively insured.  I haven't seen any evidence that the police indicated  that they 
were likely to be storing the car in their pound for some considerable time. And Watford  
knew that Mr F had bought a policy to cover the car and as such  changing the registration 
number on the documents  should have been a formality which  would allow Mr F to recover  
his car from the pound without significant delay. And I note that the broker  updated the 
registration details  on the policy with the minimum of fuss while  the policy was still in place. It 
follows that Watford should have been aware that it would  be possible that Mr F would be 
able to recover his car without any further  delay. So, at the very least, I would have expected  
Watford to give Mr F seven days  warning of its intention to cancel the policy,  as that then 
would have given  Mr F enough time to ensure he had alternative cover. But Watford didn't 
do that. 
It follows that I don't think Watford  dealt  with Mr F fairly; as, I've said above, at the very least  
I think it should have  given Mr F seven days notice that it would cancel his policy.  Mr F 
could then have  ensured he had continuous cover while his car was being used. But Watford  
unfairly denied  him that opportunity. So, in order to put things right, I think Watford  should 
return Mr F to the position he'd have been  in if it had treated him fairly and given him seven 
days notice that it would  cancel his policy. And as such  I think it should extend the cover on 
Mr Fs policy by seven  days  from the date it chose  to cancel  the policy,  16 November 2018. 
It should deal with any claims arising  from that period applying the remaining terms of Mr Fs 
policy. Also,  I'm aware that the unfair  way in which Watford  cancelled Mr Fs policy  has been 
a source of distress and inconvenience for him, so I think it should pay him £400 
compensation.
Ref: DRN98555153Both Watford and Mr F accepted my provisional decision.  But Mr F questioned  whether his 
legal fees should be covered. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As Mr F and Watford both accepted my provisional  decision  the only point remaining for me 
to address is the question of whether or not Watford should cover Mr Fs legal  fees in 
connection with this complaint. But I don't think it would  be fair to instruct Watford  to pay 
those fees.
Thats because were  an informal  complaint handling service  and consumers can bring their 
complaint's to us free of charge and without the need for legal representation. Indeed, Mr F 
initially brought his complaint without the assistance  of a lawyer. 
Mr Fs representative  has said that neither Mr F nor any average  layperson would have been 
able to articulate  the case successfully. And the representatives implied  that the case  was of 
such complexity that our adjudicator initially did not grasp Mr Fs complaint.  But I reject 
those arguments.  In fact, I found Mr Fs complaint fairly straightforward.  And the reason I 
said Id uphold it was based squarely on the principles of what  is a fair and reasonable 
outcome based  on the circumstances of the case.  My decision wasn't influenced by any 
legal arguments  or principle. So, I don't  think Mr F required the intervention  of a lawyer in 
order to bring his complaint successfully.
Also, we operate a two-stage process  whereby if either side is unhappy with our 
adjudicators (or investigator's) assessment of the complaint  then they may appeal  it to an 
ombudsman. And its certainly not uncommon or unusual for an ombudsman  to come to a 
different conclusion to the adjudicator. And that usually  happens  without the input of a 
professional representative. Also, while I don't agree with our adjudicators assessment of 
the complaint,  I don't  find that simply because my decision  is different means that the 
adjudicator couldn't grasp it or that it was particularly  complex.  It follows that I don't think 
its fair to instruct Watford  to cover Mr Fs legal  expenses.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Watford  Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to:
Extend the cover  on Mr Fs policy for a further seven days from 16 November 2018.
Pay Mr F £400 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN98555154
Ref: DRN9855515