K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax)  mis-sold  him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 2002 in connection with a 
mortgage. 
He also complains that Halifax debt counselling  advice  was defective because  it did not tell 
him he had a PPI policy which would have  covered his mortgage repayments when he was 
made redundant in 2006  but he was told to sell his house instead.
background
Mr W bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) from Halifax in 2002, to cover a 
mortgage which started in 2002 and ended in February 2007.  He bought a policy to give him 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He also bought other  policies but Ive only 
been asked to consider this particular PPI policy  in this decision.  Mr W said he did not know 
he had PPI (he thought  it was a life insurance policy)  so he concludes it was mis-sold  
because he did not consent to it being added to his mortgage account.  
He also says that as he did not know about the PPI being added, he did not claim on it in 
2006 when he was made redundant.  Instead, he relied on and followed debt counselling  
advice from Halifax that he should reduce all of his outgoings and his mortgage repayments 
and finally, to sell his house to pay off any arrears  and the mortgage.  He sold his house in 
2007, paid off the mortgage (and any arrears)  and cancelled his PPI policy  (which  he still 
thought was a life insurance policy). Mr W made  a backdated claim on the PPI policy in 2017 
but the claim was rejected because he couldnt produce the required documents.
Halifax said the PPI had not been mis-sold in 2002. It said the policy was suitable for his 
needs and hed been given enough information  about PPI. It also said a staff member from 
its debt collection team would not have known about any insurances Mr W had bought and, 
in any event, it was not under any obligation  to tell him about the PPI policy  during the debt 
counselling session.  Halifax said it was down to Mr W to make his insurance claim on his 
policy.
Our adjudicator issued  three views; she said the policy had not been mis-sold, the debt 
counselling advice  was not defective and a third view to say the debt counselling in 2006  
was outside our jurisdiction  so we had no powers to continue  look at that part of Mr Ws 
complaint. Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators  views and asked for all matters to be 
looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in April 2019 where  I explained we had no powers to look at 
the complaint  about debt counselling because  our powers to look at that particular activity 
started on 6 April 2007. Our jurisdiction is not retrospective and as Mr Ws complaint dates 
back to 2006,  we cannot look at that part of his complaint. I also explained in my provisional 
decision why I did not think the policy had been  mis-sold in 2002.
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. Halifax  had nothing  further to add. 
Mr W added  it was unfair that we could  not look at part of his complaint because of a job 
title. However, I need to point out that it is the activity of debt counselling that we could not 
look at before 2007. So we still cannot  look at this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN95922572In respect of the PPI mis-sale complaint,  Mr W submitted the same points as before: that he 
did not know he had bought PPI; he was told about life insurance but not about PPI; he told 
Halifax he had been made redundant several  times  and so Halifax should have reminded 
him about his PPI policy so he could make a claim on it; the policy was mis-sold because  he 
didnt know about  it at the time of the sale  otherwise he would  have used it when he had a 
need to. I have considered these points before. So as there are no new points of evidence  
for me to consider,  I see no reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision about the PPI mis-sale complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done that, Im not going  to uphold his complaint. I know this will be a disappointing  
result for him so Ill explain why.
I first looked  at whether Mr W was shown the PPI was an optional product. He said PPI was 
added without his consent with very little discussion, and so he says he didnt agree to it. 
I dont know exactly what was said during the branch meeting but Ive seen screen shots 
from Halifax records which show answers to the eligibility and PPI exclusion questions and 
have recorded  that Mr W chose PPI. So I think there probably was some discussion about 
PPI during the meeting  rather than none at all. There is very little paper work from the time of 
the sale, but Ive seen  the customer declaration which was signed by Mr W in 2002   so I 
can assume he saw it at the time of signing  it. The declaration says he was signing to say 
the statements  and information he gave for the TMPP were  true and complete. The 
declaration went  on to say:
I understand that you will use my answers in my application to work out the risk under the 
plan
So I think Mr W probably was aware  he was making an application and that it was optional. 
And I couldnt see any evidence that it was added automatically without his consent  or 
knowledge. So Im not going to uphold that part of the complaint.
Mr W cant remember if the sale was advised. Halifax  said it was advised. I think its more  
likely the policy was advised as Ive already decided some  questions were probably  asked 
and I think a policy was recommended  for his particular needs. So Ill continue on the same  
basis. For an advised sale, Halifax had to recommend a suitable policy for Mr W.  
In this case, I think it was suitable for Mr W because he was eligible for cover,  it seemed 
affordable for him at the time; and I dont think he was affected  by the main things not 
covered by the policy (the exclusions.)
Mr W told us he wouldnt receive any sick pay from his employer, or any major  redundancy 
payment and that he had no savings. So it does seem sensible that he was sold a policy  
which covered him for accident, sickness  and unemployment  it does appear he had a need 
for it. So I dont think the policy was unsuitable  for him.
Ref: DRN95922573I also looked at the policy  information  which Halifax gave  to Mr W to see if it was fair, clear 
and not misleading.
Halifax told us the policy cost £29.37 per month for the PPI part of the policy. And the benefit 
was payable for up to 24 months for a successful claim. I dont know  how this cost was 
explained to Mr W during the meeting.  But as Ive already decided the policy  was optional, 
and that he chose to have  it, I dont think any clearer information about the cost and benefit 
wouldve put him off from buying it.
I also dont know how Halifax spoke to Mr W about  the exclusions  although I can see from 
the screenshots that he was asked  some questions about the main  exclusions. But as he 
wasnt affected by the main ones, I dont think hed have decided  not to buy PPI even if hed 
been given a full list of exclusions. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was probably shown as optional  and that he 
consented to buy it. It seemed suitable for Mr Ws needs at the time. And I dont  think  hed 
have decided not to buy it if hed been given clearer information. So Im not going to uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592257