K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt offer her enough for her written-off  
car when  she made a claim  on her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms L says she bought  the car in June 2017 for £6,995. It was written-off in February 2018. In 
March 2018 UKI offered Ms L £5,370 for it, having added  £650 to its first offer to reflect  the 
cars low mileage. Ms L said the mileage  was extremely low, so UKI should have paid more 
for that. She said it should  also have paid more for its excellent  condition,  full service  history 
and the fact that in her view cars in her area sell for more than in other parts  of the country.
UKI said its engineer  had used the figures  given in the national trade guides to value Ms Ls 
car. It said Ms L had no evidence to support her view that the car was worth £5,900. So it 
saw no reason to contradict the engineers  view.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Ms Ls complaint.  He said we normally  relied  on the 
valuations in the national trade guides, as UKI had done. The investigator checked  the 
guides and found two valuations at £5,370, plus one at £5,575. He said the valuation  and 
the condition of the car had been  taken into account. As he thought UKI had acted  
reasonably, he didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. She said the investigator hadnt explained 
why the higher valuation hed found shouldnt  be used.  She said UKI had described the 
condition of the car as good,  not excellent,  and hadnt referred to her location.
The investigator said hed have expected UKIs  valuation to be within the range  of the 
valuations hed found. He said it was based on the highest condition category for cars. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont value cars, but we check to make sure that insurers have acted reasonably  in 
doing so. Ms Ls policy says UKI will pay the cars pre-accident  market value. We think the 
fairest way to establish market value is to look at the valuations in the trade guides. Theyre  
based on extensive nationwide research  into the likely average selling prices  of cars. Ms L 
thinks cars sell for more than average  in her area,  but I havent seen any evidence  of that.
I think UKI made  a reasonable  addition to the cars  value to reflect  its low mileage  as 
suggested in the trade  guides. The guides  dont have an excellent category for the 
condition of cars, so by classing the condition of Ms Ls car as good, it was put in the 
highest available category. Insurers dont  normally pay more  for a full service history, as a 
car should be kept in roadworthy  condition, which involves regular servicing. So I dont think  
UKI was required to add to the valuation for that.
UKI considered the valuations in three of the four trade guides.  The valuation  it used  was the 
middle one it found. The other two valuations were  around £200  higher and around £200 
lower. So I think UKIs  offer was reasonable. The investigator found  slightly different figures 
in the guides, but two of them gave the same valuation UKI had offered Ms L. 
Ref: DRN93892582Recently we checked a fourth trade  guide.  The valuation  it gave  was out of line with the 
other three guides,  and in these circumstances,  we think its fair to disregard it. 
UKIs offer was based  on the middle  of the range of trade guide valuations, and took into 
account the cars low mileage and good  condition. As I dont think  it acted unreasonably, I 
cant uphold Ms Ls complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9389258