K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about charges which he says were wrongly applied  to his mortgage  account 
due to an error by Platform Funding Ltd. He asks that all fees and charges are refunded and 
the account is marked as up to date.  He also asks for compensation for his distress.  
background
Mr G took out a mortgage in January 2007  which was administered  by Platform  until 
February 2008.
In September  2018 Platform wrote to Mr G saying it had completed a remediation  on his 
account. It said it had calculated an interest  rate change incorrectly and as a result  Mr G had 
overpaid interest of about £106. It refunded this with 8% interest (a total of £177.45). 
Mr G says if this error hadnt been made,  his account wouldnt have fallen into arrears and 
he wouldnt  have incurred  fees.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
compensation paid by Platform was fair. Platform didnt apply any fees to Mr Gs account. 
Platform wasnt responsible for any fees applied after 2008, when the account was 
administered by different  businesses.
Mr G didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr Gs mortgage was administered by Platform until 2008. It recently wrote to Mr G to say it 
made an error when  it adjusted the interest rate following changes in the Bank of England 
base rate. 
The terms of Mr Gs mortgage say that an interest rate change would be reviewed on the 
10th of each month  and implemented on his next monthly payment date.  Instead,  Platform 
applied the change from the first day of the following  month.  So, in effect, it applied  the 
wrong interest rate between the 1st of the month and Mr Gs monthly payment date. 
Platform says as a result of its error the balance  of Mr Gs mortgage was slightly  higher than 
it should have  been. This meant  that more interest has been applied to his account. 
There could be circumstances in which an error  like this could lead to a borrower falling into 
arrears  for instance  if the error meant  the amount of their monthly payment increased 
beyond what was affordable. But think its unlikely that was the case here. 
Platform made the error in 2007. In late 2018, Platform calculated  the total amount of 
interest that Mr G overpaid  as £106. The amount of additional interest  he paid each month  
as a result  of Platforms  error was small relative to his monthly  payments   which  were  over 
Ref: DRN91329032£600 in 2007. Mr Gs account wasnt in arrears while it was administered by Platform.  
Reductions in the Bank of Englands base rates meant his monthly  payments had decreased 
to about £430 before his account fell into arrears in late 2008. This was after it had been 
transferred to another business in February 2008.  I dont think  the relatively  small amount of 
additional interest was the reason Mr G was unable to maintain  his monthly payments.
Platform didnt apply  any charges related to arrears  or late payments while it administered 
Mr Gs account.  And, based on the available evidence, I dont think  its error was responsible  
for any difficulty Mr G had in maintaining payments  after the account was transferred to 
another business.
I think the compensation offered by Platform  to refund the overpaid interest with interest at 
8%  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9132903