K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  a claim they made on their UIA (Insurance) Limited legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
UIA declined  to cover that claim. Mr and Mrs M say they were  wrong  to do so and that the 
limitation applicable to their claim has now expired.  Because of this they want UIA to pay 
them the value  of their claim.
All references to UIA in this decision  include their claims handlers.
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim for cover to bring  a claim against the owner of neighbouring  
land for trespass  and damage to their property arising out of a conservatory that had been 
erected by the neighbour.
UIA considered the claim and rejected it. They said there wasnt  any evidence  of the 
trespass Mr and Mrs M were alleging. Mr and Mrs M eventually  provided UIA with a 
surveyors report to support their claim. As a result UIA sent instructions to a panel firm of 
solicitors to consider  the matter further.
As a result of the panel firms review,  UIA concluded that the claim Mr and Mrs M wanted to 
bring wasnt covered  because it related  to a property that wasnt their home as defined by 
the policy and this was excluded. UIA also expressed some  concerns about whether the 
insured event (the thing that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ms claim) took place before the policy 
was in place. UIA thought it was likely that it did and that this meant the claim would also be 
one they wouldnt  cover as a result.  Because  of this they declined  to cover Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim further.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
He said that UIA had applied the exclusion relating to the property that was the subject of the 
claim for cover, correctly. Mr and Mrs M dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms applicable  to Mr and Mrs Ms claim. They  cover:
3. Property
A dispute relating to visible property which you or your family own following
 an event  which  causes  physical damage  to your or your familys visible  property including  
your home
The policy also goes on to say:
We will not pay for.
 any claim  relating to
b) any building or land other than your home
Ref: DRN93427772Home is defined as The private dwelling you live in shown in the schedule as the Insured  
Property, together with its garages  and outbuildings (forming part of the title deeds) all used 
solely for domestic purposes, or for working from home in a purely clerical or administrative 
capacity, with no business visitors and no business stock, money or equipment on the 
premises.
Its clear from the policy schedule and the correspondence Ive seen that the property 
Mr and Mrs M wanted to bring  a claim for wasnt their home  and they didnt live there. In 
addition I understand that property was being  rented at the time UIA were  considering their 
claim. Because of this I agree that their claim isnt one that is covered  under the policy. So I 
dont think that UIA did anything wrong in declining it.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that the policy terms UIA have relied on are different to the ones 
they were provided  with when the policy was sold to them. Ive considered the policy terms 
theyre relying on but they contain  the same  terms and the same  exclusion. So this doesnt 
change my view of their complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs M feel the policy terms arent clear and that the exclusion UIA are 
relying on wasnt obvious to them. As the adjudicator  explained I dont think  this makes a 
difference. The complaint theyve made concerns  whether UIA have applied the exclusion 
fairly. In the circumstances theres nothing to make me think that they havent. I cant  look at 
anything that concerns  how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs M when it was sold to 
them, because the policy wasnt  sold by UIA. Thats something theyll  need to raise with the 
seller of the policy directly, should  they wish to.
Finally, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  their claim against the owner of the 
neighbouring property might  now be time barred. Because I dont think  UIA have done 
anything wrong, I dont think theyre responsible  for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  
UIA (Insurance) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9342777