K821x#15complaint
Mrs E has complained about the sale of a single premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy by Nationwide Building  Society  attached to a personal loan in 2002.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mrs E disagreed with these findings. She has stated that she was led to believe by 
Nationwide that she needed to take out PPI in order for the loan to be granted. If she had 
known it was optional,  Mrs E says that she would not have taken  out the policy.  Mrs E has 
also commented that the extra cost of the PPI led to her struggling to repay the loan, and 
that she eventually  went into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). She considers that 
this means that the recommendation to take the policy out was unsuitable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
The policy was sold over the telephone. Theres no recording available of the sales  call, and 
I cant therefore know for sure what Nationwide  told Mrs E about PPI. However,  Ive seen a 
copy of the signed loan agreement Mrs E was sent after the call. The cost of PPI and the 
personal loan repayments are set out separately. In the column showing the PPI cost,  it 
describes this as Optional Credit  Insurance .
I have carefully considered Mrs Es comments that she was not given the choice about  
whether or not she wanted PPI. However, taking  into account the way PPI was described  as 
optional on the loan agreement, on balance my view is that it is more likely than not that the 
policy was presented to Mrs E as something  she could choose to have if she wanted to. 
Overall I consider that Mrs E was given  the option to add PPI to her loan, and she chose to 
do so.
Mrs E has indicated  that she considers this to have  been an advised  sale, where Nationwide 
recommended the policy  to her. Based on my knowledge of the way in which  Nationwide 
generally sold PPI on these types of loans, I consider it more likely than not that this was a 
non-advised sale. In these circumstances, whilst  Nationwide  did not recommend  the policy 
as being suitable for Mrs E, it was still required to give her information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading to allow her to make an informed  choice about taking it out.
The loan agreement  gave  information about  the cost of the policy including the premium, 
the interest,  total cost and monthly payment. My view is that Mrs E would have  understood 
how much  the PPI would  cost if she kept the policy for its full term.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant be sure Mrs E was given clear  enough information 
about other features of the policy when she bought it. However  I also need to consider 
whether Mrs E would  have acted differently, and not taken out the policy,  if shed been given 
clearer information. Looking at her circumstances at the time of the sale,  my view is that her 
decision to take out PPI is unlikely to have changed, for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN99113312Mrs E was eligible  for the policy, and was unlikely to be affected by any of the main 
things it didnt cover (such as pre-existing medical  conditions).
Mrs E has confirmed  what  her entitlement was to sickness or redundancy pay from 
her employer  when  sold the policy. However,  under  a successful claim the PPI would 
have covered the loan repayments if Mrs E was off work  sick until she returned to 
work. It would also have offered protection for up to 12 months  for an unemployment 
claim. On balance my view is that the policy provided Mrs E with a useful benefit, 
taking into account her circumstances, if she was unable to work due to disability or 
unemployment.
The policy provided a pro-rata refund if cancelled early, helping  make the 
arrangement flexible.
I have taken into account Mrs Es comments about her financial circumstances, and the fact 
that she went into an IVA after being sold PPI. However, the monthly payment for the loan 
relating to the PPI premium was just under £15, whilst the principal loan itself cost Mrs E 
around £100 per month. On balance it does  not seem to me that the cost attributable  to PPI 
increased the overall loan costs to any significant extent. In addition,  as the sale was not an 
advised one, it was not for Nationwide to consider  the affordability of the PPI policy.
Instead, Mrs E needed to make that decision  on the basis of the information given to her. My 
conclusion is that even if Mrs E had been given clearer information,  she would still have 
taken out the policy.  This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs E. 
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mrs E, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mrs E any commission  and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mrs E any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mrs E the extra she paid each  month on the loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium  - including any 
extra Mrs E paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide  should  also pay Mrs E 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs E can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN99113313my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9911331