complaint
Ms G complains about the way Assetz SME  Capital Limited (Assetz)  has administered a 
loan into which she invested.  She says Assetz didnt  ensure the loan was covered by the 
security it had promised, and isnt happy  with the steps Assetz took to recover the loan once 
it defaulted.
background
Assetz runs a peer-to-peer (P2P) crowdfunding platform. Investors, such as Ms G, invest in 
loans provided  to borrowers. Assetz  and its agents arrange the loans and administer them  
on behalf of both borrowers  and lenders.
In May 2013, Ms G invested in one particular loan offered on Assetzs  platform. The loan 
was to be provided to a company Ill call A1, with a related company A2 acting as guarantor.  
The loan was for £260,000 for the purpose  of refinancing some  development land.  Relevant  
parties included  the director  of A1 and A2, whom Ill call Mr B2, and his parents Mr and Mrs 
B1.
Security for the loan was said to comprise a charge over the development land (the land) as 
well as a charge over a freehold property (the property) owned by Mr and Mrs B1.
Shortly before the loan was due to be drawn down, Assetz informed Ms G (and other 
prospective lenders)  that Mr B1 had sadly lost mental capacity.  This meant  he was unable  to 
sign the relevant  documents to secure the charge over the property.
Assetz explained that in order to allow the loan to go ahead,  it proposed securing a personal  
guarantee from Mrs B1, as well as a guarantee from Mr B2. It said it was intended  for Mr B2 
to receive  Power of Attorney over Mr B1s affairs  enabling the charge over the property to be 
put in place. Ms G accepted the proposal.
A year or so later, Ms G wrote  to Assetz to question whether  the charge over the property 
had, in the end, been  put in place. She says Assetz  didnt  respond to this correspondence.
Capital and interest payments on the loan continued  to be made until the middle of 2015.  At 
this point, Mr B2 sadly and unexpectedly passed  away. Assetz wrote  to lenders to say that 
A1 had been placed into receivership and the loan had defaulted. It said it would demand 
repayment of the loan and begin  steps to enforce the security  it held.
Extensive further  correspondence continued between Assetz  and Ms G over the following 
two years.  The land was eventually sold, although  by this time the planning permission 
previously granted  had expired. The sale of the land did not provide enough  to cover the
K821x#15
Ref: DRN9284618outstanding balance of the loan, and Assetz explained it was then pursuing the personal 
guarantees provided by Mrs B1 and Mr B2 in order to recover  the remaining funds.
Ms G complained to Assetz  about  its handling  of the loan in 2016 and again in 2017. In 
summary she said:
Assetz had failed  to ensure the promised security to protect the loan was in place. No 
power of attorney was able to be provided by Mr B1 in favour of his son given his 
lack of capacity.
It had misrepresented the status of the charge over the property as late as 2015  after 
Mr B2 had died. In fact this charge was never in place.
It also failed to ensure the personal guarantee provided by Mrs B1 was properly put 
in place, evidenced by her and her solicitors attempts to absolve  her of any liability  
with respect to the loan.
It had failed to monitor  the loan properly,  and if it had done it would have known the 
planning permission  granted on the land expired in early 2015. This expiration 
materially impacted the resale value of the land and the amount able to be recovered  
from the sale on behalf of investors.
Further, Assetz ought to have defaulted  the loan in late 2013. Securing the charge 
over the property was a condition  of the lending agreement and failure to do so 
should have been  treated as an event of default. Had Assetz  done so, the land could 
have been sold while the planning permission was still in place and the loan would 
have been repaid  in full much sooner.
Once it began pursuing  Mrs B1 for money due under her personal guarantee, Assetz  
wasnt proactive  enough in pursuing  bankruptcy further delaying  and jeopardising the 
repayment of the loan.
She felt that by late 2017 Assetz were trying  to strongarm her into accepting the 
option of putting a Part 36 offer to Mrs B1. This option would have  decreased the 
chances of full recovery and was only necessary because  of Assetzs previous 
failings.
Across its various responses  Assetz declined to uphold Ms Gs complaints. Overall it said:
Shortly prior to the loan drawing down it discovered the situation  regarding Mr B1s 
health and mental capacity. Given  his sadly limited life expectancy it explored  the 
option of Mrs B1 gaining power of attorney. This wasnt able to be carried  out. So it 
suggested Mrs B1 provide a personal  guarantee, and that she or Mr B2 would be 
able to execute the charge over the property once Mr B1 passed  away  and she 
inherited his share of it.
It was satisfied it had gained a guarantee from Mrs B1, and couldnt be held 
responsible for her or her solicitors  challenging that later on.
Ms Gs assertions that the land would have fetched a better  price  had it been sold 
sooner is speculative.
It was the intention of all parties  that Assetz (on behalf of investors) would receive a 
charge over the property. It was left for Mr B2 to sign the charge documents but he 
wasnt given power of attorney in order to do so before his untimely death.
Assetz carried out its role as agent of the lenders properly. After Mr B2 died and the 
loan defaulted  it pursued all reasonable means  to recover the loan. It engaged with 
Mr B2s estate  as well as the liquidators  of A1 and A2. And it pursued Mrs B1 for 
money under her personal  guarantee. It took the steps  it considered appropriate at 
the relevant times, and bore the costs of pursuing  Mrs B1s personal  guarantee itself.
Ref: DRN9284618While  other recovery  options may have  been available  at various  times,  Assetz  didnt 
consider they would have been to the benefit of the loan recovery  and may have led 
to unnecessary costs  which would ultimately  have  been  borne by the investors.
Ms G brought her complaint to our service.  Initially we considered  the question of our 
jurisdiction to consider  their complaint. This was dealt with by another  ombudsman,  who 
issued a decision in early 2019.  In summary she concluded we had no power to look into 
anything surrounding  the inception of the loan, but were able to consider events from 1 April 
2014 onwards.  She said:
Mr and Mrs [G] have also complained about  how Assetz  handled things since  1 April 2014. 
Theyve complained  about how Assetz has communicated  with them about  the loan since  
then, the steps  its taken  to realise  the security since [A1] defaulted in August 2015 and its 
handling of a Part 36 offer.
As these  issues relate to events after 1 April 2014 and to the carrying on of the regulated 
activity, operating an electronic system  in relation to lending, I think we can consider these 
parts of their complaint.
One of our investigators  went on to consider the merits of Ms Gs complaint. She noted that 
since the complaint  had first been  raised, Assetz had been  successful in recovering funds 
from Mrs B1. She explained that Ms G had now been repaid the money  they invested, along  
with interest at the relevant rates  (15% until the loan defaulted, 18% thereafter). She said 
she hadnt seen  enough evidence to suggest  Ms G would have received her money earlier if 
Assetz had taken a different course  of action.  And she noted shed benefited from receiving 
a generous rate of interest  on the money  she invested for the entirety of the period she was 
without it. So overall she didnt recommend Assetz needed to do anything in order  to resolve  
the complaint.
Ms G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. She said the 
investigator hadnt taken into account the extortionate  time and effort  shed expended in 
order to bring matters to a conclusion. As well as the costs she incurred in doing so. She 
argued that the loan recovery only came about as a result of the pressure she and her 
solicitors applied, rather than any action on Assetzs behalf.
I issued a provisional decision, saying  I intended  to uphold the complaint and direct Assetz  
to pay Ms G £250. I said:
Firstly, I want to be clear  about the parts of this complaint Im considering. As set out in 
the previous ombudsmans decision,  I am unable to look into or comment  on Assetzs  
actions before the relevant activity  became regulated on 1 April 2014. This means I will 
not consider the inception of the loan, nor anything  Ms G says Assetz  ought  to have 
done in late 2013.
My decision  therefore focusses on what happened  with this loan from April 2014 
onwards. The starting  point is to look at what the parties agreed   under the platform 
agreement entered  into by Ms G as well as the loan agreement for this particular piece 
of borrowing.
Ref: DRN9284618The charge  over the property
Much of this complaint  concerns  Assetzs  actions  in relation to the administration  of the 
loan, specifically surrounding defaulting  the loan and recovery action. In that regard  
the terms of the agreement between Assetz and Ms G says:
10.6 Subject to paragraph 11 below, each of the Assetz Agent and the Trustee  shall 
have discretion in the exercise of any authority  vested  in it as agent  and security 
trustee respectively  in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement  and the 
Security Documents.
11.Default Procedures
11.1If the Assetz Agent  becomes aware  of a default  in the payment of any principal, 
interest or fee payable under any Loan Agreement or if it otherwise receives  
notification of an event  of default under the terms of any Loan  Agreement,  it shall 
promptly:
(a)notify the relevant  Lending Syndicate Members  of the relevant circumstances; and
(b)put together  a suitably qualified default  management  team  comprising a lawyer,  an 
insolvency practitioner and any other  professional deemed by the Assetz Agent to be 
required, whose  task it shall be to produce a report on the default  situation and a 
recommended course of action.
11.2Neither the Assetz Agent nor the Trustee  shall implement any of the following  
proposed courses  of action without having  the consent or deemed consent of the 
relevant Lending Syndicate  Members  in relation to the proposal;
(a)the commencement of any enforcement action or legal process against a Borrower;
(b)the release of any security (save where  the relevant  Loan  has been  repaid in full);
(c)the issue of any waiver letter; or
(d)the restructuring of the Loan or security.
Under the terms of the loan agreement the following are listed  (amongst other things) 
as events of default:
15.1Non-payment  the Borrower fails to pay in full on the due date any sum due from 
it under  this Agreement in the currency and in the manner specified  in this Agreement;
15.2Breach of obligations:  the Borrower fails duly to perform  or comply with any 
obligation
expressed to be assumed  by it under this Agreement;
It is also provided under the loan agreement that the borrower (A1) undertakes that it 
shall:
14.7 Security: procure that additional asset  security is executed in favour of the 
Security Trustee to support the obligations of [Mr B1] and [Mrs B1] under their 
personal guarantees executed in favour  of the Security Trustee  in form and substance  
satisfactory to the Agent within 180 days from the date of this Agreement.
Ref: DRN9284618The list of security for the loan set out in the loan agreement  included a legal charge 
executed by Mr B1 and Mrs B1 over the property.
So A1 had an obligation under the loan agreement to secure  additional security  for the 
loan (the charge over the property).  Failure to comply  with its obligations would 
constitute an event  of default  under the agreement. And under its own terms, Assetz  
was obliged to inform investors of the circumstances  if it was notified of an event of 
default.
Ms G has argued repeatedly that Assetz ought  to have notified her once the 180 day 
period stipulated in the loan agreement was up, and the security of the charge had still 
not been put in place. As explained above, this happened before April 2014 and so is 
beyond the scope of my decision.
However, in May 2014 Ms G wrote  to Assetz to say she suspected  the charge wasnt 
yet in place. Assetz  acknowledged the correspondence  but Ive not seen anything  to 
suggest it carried out any further enquiries or actions.
At this stage I think Assetz ought  to have done more.  It had been  notified that there  
was at least a strong possibility A1 hadnt complied with its obligations under the loan 
agreement. And this ought, in line with its terms, to have prompted  it to inform Ms G of 
the circumstances.
As Assetz itself acknowledged  in its final response  to Ms Gs complaint:
The subject Loan Agreement stipulated that the Borrower  had undertaken to procure  
further security from [Mr B1] and [Mrs B1]. They did not do this.
There remains the question of what,  if anything, would have happened differently at 
that stage had Assetz informed investors  of the lack of additional security.  Ms G 
argues that the loan out to have been  defaulted  and called in, and steps  taken to 
release what charged security was held.
But Im not persuaded this would have  been  the most likely  course  of events. The 
terms of Assetzs platform agreement gave  it discretion in how to act in administering 
the loans, subject to the specific provisions concerning default. Those provisions  
simply set out that Assetz was obliged to inform investors of such  an event, and gain 
their consent  before  pursuing particular courses  of action. Assetz wasnt obliged under 
the terms to take a certain route simply because lenders preferred it.
Considering the circumstances  in 2014, I dont think that, on balance, its likely that 
Assetz would have  recommended calling in the loan or enforcing its security. I say this 
for a few reasons.
At that point in time all the loan payments, of capital and interest, had been made. The 
nature of the default event  wasnt specifically  to do with A1s ability to repay the loan 
going forwards, but with the security held over the loan in the event repayments 
stopped. The fact the particular issue related  to a lack of security  would,  in my view, 
make it even less likely that calling in the loan (where the loan to value was, in effect  
much higher  than it appeared) would have been an option Assetz would have 
recommended.
Ref: DRN9284618Further, while Assetz  has acknowledged it expected a charge  in its favour to be 
registered over the property, its actions in 2013  reflected it was comfortable with this 
not happening before  the loan was incepted,  and that it considered the personal 
guarantees from Mrs B1 and Mr B2 to provide some assurance.
For clarity,  I make no comment or finding on whether Assetz was reasonable in 
making that judgement at the time - or whether it was clear in explaining the situation 
to, and gaining  the acceptance of Ms G. These actions were prior to April 2014 and so 
are beyond the scope  of this decision.
So I think the most likely option  was that Assetz recommended to investors that no 
action was taken  in regard to calling  in the loan,  but that it renewed attempts to have 
the charge secured. The latter relied  upon Mr B2 being granted  authority to authorise  
the charge on his fathers behalf.  This couldnt be done through  an ordinary power  of 
attorney, due to Mr B1 having lost mental capacity  by this stage. But an application to 
the Court  of Protection  could, presumably, have  been made in order for Mr B2 to be 
appointed his deputy. I havent seen anything to suggest Assetz pursued  this with Mr 
B2 or Mrs B1 at any stage, relying  instead  on the personal guarantees theyd provided.
Had Assetz,  as I think it should, used this opportunity to ensure the security  was in 
place, then I think its likely that the recovery of the loan after Mr B2s death would have 
gone more smoothly.  Were the property  to have sold for something around  its value  at 
the time the loan was incepted, it would have been  more than sufficient for the balance 
of the loan and interest  to be repaid following the sale of the land. So the pursuit of Mrs 
B2 and money under her personal guarantee would  have  in all likelihood proved 
unnecessary.
As Ive explained I dont  think  that Assetz taking action with respect to the missing 
charge over the property in 2014  would have led to repayment of the loan being 
demanded. And so I dont think the land would have been sold any earlier than it was. 
The arguments Ms G has put forward regarding the possibilities of the land selling for 
a higher sum while it still had planning permission granted  are therefore, in my view, 
moot for the purposes of this decision.
But overall Im satisfied Assetz ought fairly and reasonably  to have taken action,  and at 
the very least informed  investors of the situation  regarding the charge over the 
property, following receipt of Ms Gs correspondence in early  2014.
The personal guarantee
The remaining  points Ms G has raised  concern the way, later,  Assetz  pursued Mrs 
B1s personal guarantee and its subsequent Part 36 offer. Here, Im satisfied Assetz  
acted fairly  and reasonably and within the terms of its agreement with Ms G.
As stated above, the terms gave Assetz discretion in how it would act in recovering a 
debt, save for those actions which required it to seek the approval of investors. Ms G, 
understandably, argues it should have  been doing  all it could to ensure repayment at 
the earliest opportunity. I have considered Assetzs actions and the wider 
circumstances carefully.
Assetz had obligations  to act in its lenders  best interests. But it had obligations to the 
borrower, and to ensure it also treated those it was seeking to recover  funds from
Ref: DRN9284618fairly. It is natural that in balancing these competing  obligations it would at times make 
decisions that one party  or other wouldnt agree with. That isnt to say those decisions 
would necessarily be unfair.
Ive also considered that, without the benefit of hindsight, its impossible to say what 
action would ultimately result in the quickest and cheapest recovery  of the loan funds. I 
have to decide whether Assetz acted reasonably, with due skill, care and diligence,  
and took decisions  which it could reasonably be said were likely to be in the best 
interests of all its customers. From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied it did so.
The recovery of funds  under the personal  guarantee was complicated by Mrs B1s 
contesting of the guarantee  itself. That wasnt within Assetzs control. And Im 
persuaded by its arguments that in attempting to recover the funds, Assets  sought to 
do so by consent of Mrs B1 rather than jumping straight into potentially expensive 
court proceedings or bankruptcy, neither of which would guarantee a more  favourable  
result and which would have been likely to incur  costs which investors  would ultimately 
bear.
Once it became  apparent that Mrs B1 remained intransigent and court  proceedings 
became more likely,  Assetz recommended  a Part 36 offer be submitted in attempt  to 
avoid the costs of court  (which may or may not have been  recoverable).
Whether or not different  options at various stages may have ultimately proved more 
beneficial to lenders,  Im satisfied that Assetz took Ms Gs interests into account and 
acted fairly  in the way it sought to recover the outstanding loan balance  from Mrs B1.
Summary
There were a number of unexpected events or factors which contributed  to this loan 
not running as all parties expected it to, both before and after it defaulted.  Mr B1s lack 
of capacity at the time of inception, Mr B2s unfortunate passing midway  through the 
loan term, and Mrs B1s challenge of the personal guarantee shed entered  into all 
meant that things deviated from their expected path.
But overall Im not persuaded Assetz fulfilled  its obligations under the terms of its 
agreements, nor that it treated Ms G fairly in the way it administered  this loan on her 
behalf.
Mr B1s lack of capacity presented challenges to putting the expected security in place. 
But Assetzs  approach appeared  to be to secure  a personal guarantee and take no 
further action. While personal guarantees gave some assurance,  they were  no 
substitute for a first legal charge over a property  of easily identifiable value.
Assetz knew  investors, including Ms G, relied  on this security when investing and 
highlighted it in the documents detailing the loan:
Given the risk of planning permissions being  rescinded in the future, we have asked 
for further  security. We will also have  a 1st legal charge  on one of the shops valued at
£155k. Valuation  report  is attached.
In total we will have  £585k of clean  security with £250k of debt. This is under 50% loan 
to value.
Ref: DRN9284618Assetz itself said that the intention from all concerned was that it would receive  a 
charge over the property. It said that unfortunately  Mr B2 hadnt been  given  power of 
attorney to execute  the charge before he died. But I think Assetz  ought to have done 
more to ensure  that the charge had in fact been put in place, or at the very least to 
have informed investors that it hadnt.
In its update to lenders following Mr B2s death  in August 2015 Assetz stated we have 
security for this loan from two freehold  properties  being development land and one of 
the trading premises.
This suggests Assetz itself hadnt  ascertained the true status of the charge, even 
following Ms Gs correspondence in early 2014 notifying it that the charge wasnt  
registered in public registries.
After being notified the charge wasnt in place I think Assetz  ought to have done more  
to ensure that the security  lenders  understood was in place had legal effect.  Its lenders  
were under the impression this charge protected their investment, and I dont think  it 
was sufficient for it to rely on a personal guarantee from Mr B2, and the understanding  
he would  execute  the charge once Mr B1 died.
Putting things right
I now turn to the impact of these  errors  and what losses this caused Ms G. I dont think  
the failure to secure the charge led to the loan defaulting at a different time than it 
otherwise would have. However Im satisfied that if Assetz  had been  able to enforce 
security over the property  then it would have proved unnecessary for it to pursue Mrs 
B1 for the balance of the loan under her personal  guarantee. That would have more 
likely than not resulted  in the loan and interest  being  repaid sooner than was, 
ultimately the case.
But Im not persuaded this has caused Ms G a financial  loss. My understanding is that 
the costs of pursuing the personal  guarantee were borne by Assetz. And I also 
understand that the repayment  of the loan included interest at 18% per year, up until 
the time Ms G received  her funds.
Had the loan been repaid earlier, she could have put the money to some other use. Its 
possible, although in my view unlikely, she could  have  made  an even better  return.
And Im also mindful that in general, where someone has been deprived of money they 
ought to have had sooner, our service  would generally award 8% simple  interest,  far 
less than the return Ms G actually received  on her investment.
Ms G has referred to the legal costs they incurred having solicitors  engage  with Assetz 
regarding the recovery of the loan over a lengthy  period. Ive considered this carefully, 
but Im not persuaded it would be fair to make an award for any legal costs  Ms G 
incurred. While I understand her desire to recover her funds, there was no obligation or 
necessity that I can see for her to engage  solicitors  to act on her behalf.
Having said that, its clear that Assetz  werent  as open about what was happening  as 
they ought to have  been, and didnt respond  to Ms G when she first asked it to look 
into the lack of registered charge. Assetzs errors meant the recovery process went  on 
longer than necessary and involved Ms G expending time and effort in order  to bring
Ref: DRN9284618the matter to a resolution. Im satisfied that this caused Ms G a reasonable degree of 
distress and inconvenience. And in light of that I think Assetz ought  to pay her £250.
Assetz responded to say it had nothing further  to add. Ms G replied to say she thought 
Assetz should also pay some, or all, of the solicitors fees shed incurred in chasing  up 
repayment of the loan shed invested  in. She argued  that Assetz had done little to nothing for 
a long time to recover her money. And that it was only once she appointed solicitors  to act 
on her behalf that Assetz  took steps to procure repayment of the loan. She also said Assetz  
would have gone ahead with negotiating a settlement  with the borrower  were  it not for her 
solicitors efforts. And this would have  resulted  in her receiving  less back  than she eventually 
did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided anything new in relation to the bulk of my findings, and so I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions here, and make them final. Ive 
carefully considered  Ms Gs submissions regarding the solicitors  fees shes paid. Having 
done so Im not minded  to change my conclusions on fair compensation overall.
Its important to note that where I consider Assetz to have  treated Ms G unfairly centres on 
the early stages of the loan  in failing to ensure security was in place, and not acting on Ms 
Gs correspondence questioning  whether it had been. I was, and remain,  of the view that had 
Assetz acted as it should, that the later efforts to recover the loan through  other means 
would probably  not have  been necessary. And the loan debt would more  likely than not have 
been settled earlier.  But I dont think these errors led Ms G to unavoidably need  to use a 
solicitors services.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that Assetzs decisions, and the steps  
it took, to recover the loan through Mrs B1s personal guarantee  including  its putting 
forward a Part 36 offer  were within the scope  of its discretion under the terms and werent 
unreasonable. Im not persuaded, on balance, that Ms G only got her money back because  
she paid for a solicitor  to act on her behalf.
I understand Ms Gs frustration with the amount  of time it took her to get her money back.  
And I can appreciate  why she felt she might want to use a solicitor to act for her. But I cant  
fairly say that Assetzs errors were the cause of her incurring  those  costs.
I remain of the view that Assetz should  have  acted differently in the early  stages  of the loan 
in question. And that by not doing so, the recovery process was longer and more  involved 
than it needed  to be. As I set out in my provisional  decision, I think  this caused Ms G a 
reasonable amount of distress and inconvenience in having  to correspond with Assetz over 
a lengthy period, and worry about whether shed get their money back.  And I think  £250 is 
fair compensation for the trouble she was caused  in this regard.
Ref: DRN9284618my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision I uphold  this complaint and 
direct Assetz  SME Capital Limited  to pay Ms G £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9284618