K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the difficulties that hes had in transferring his money from his 
account with Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, and the service  that hes 
received.
background 
Mr W opened a bank  account with Tesco Bank online in February  2017  and deposited 
£2,990 into it. He says that he opened the account because of the interest rate that it offered 
and that he had no intention of actively using  it. He says that he urgently needed his money 
the following  year so he phoned Tesco Bank more than 20 times but wasnt  able to get 
through and that he couldnt access its website.  He wrote to Tesco Bank but says that he 
didnt receive a reply. 
Mr W then complained to Tesco Bank  in September 2018. It replied to say that it hadnt 
received any earlier  letters  from Mr W and explained  what he needed  to do to transfer  his 
money. It apologised for the difficulties that hed had with his account but said that hed been 
abusive which wouldnt be tolerated. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Tesco  Banks response so 
complained to this service. He was able to phone Tesco Bank  in December 2018 to transfer 
his money and close his account.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that there 
were some unnecessary delays caused  to Mr W at a time when he was clearly dealing with 
a lot given his health and seriously needed  to access  his money. She thought that Tesco  
Bank couldve phoned Mr W in October 2018 after it became aware  of those issues.  And she 
thought that compensation of £100 was fair and reasonable  in this case.
Tesco Bank has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
the adjudicator  has confirmed  that it didnt do anything wrong in asking Mr W to 
phone in to close  his account  and it provided  all the information that he required so it 
doesnt feel that it failed him by not giving him a call;
there were no blocks or restrictions  on Mr Ws account and he had full access to the 
funds if he chose  to do so - the card was fully functioning and both telephone and 
online banking were  available to him;
its unlikely that Mr W phoned  it over 20 times without  being able to speak to an 
adviser  although it appreciates that its customer services  department can be busy,  
it doesnt have  wait times  constantly; and
its sorry to hear that Mr W is unwell but it doesnt feel that its actions have caused 
any delays in him accessing  his funds and closing his account or that theres any 
justification to provide  any compensation to him. 
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr W and to Tesco Bank on 26 June  2019. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Mr W opened an account online with Tesco Bank  in February  2017.  He says that it 
wasnt his intention to actively use the account  but he transferred £2,990 to it to take 
advantage of the interest rate that it offered.  Mr W was able to open the account 
Ref: DRN92867622online and I consider that he wouldve  been  provided with enough information at that 
time about how to contact  Tesco  Bank  when he needed to.
Mr W says that he needed his money  in 2018  so he phoned Tesco Bank  multiple 
times but wasnt able to get through  and that he was unable to access online 
banking. Tesco Banks customer service team is available 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week - so if Mr W was unable to get through to it when he phoned, I dont 
consider that it would be unreasonable  to expect him to phone again at another time. 
And Im not persuaded that Mr W has provided enough evidence to show that he 
phoned Tesco Bank more than 20 times without success  on each and every 
occasion. He was able to phone Tesco Bank  in December 2018 to transfer his 
money and to close his account, so we do know that calls are answered.
I dont consider it to be unreasonable  for Tesco Bank to require Mr W to phone it to 
transfer his balance to another bank  and to close his account.  Tesco  Bank says that 
it didnt receive any communication from Mr W about his account  before his letter to it 
in September  2018. And I consider that its responses to Mr Ws letters since then 
have been appropriate. 
Although I sympathise with Mr W for the health  and other issues  which  are affecting  
him, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Tesco Bank has 
acted incorrectly or unreasonably  in its dealings with him. So I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require it to pay any 
compensation to him  or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr W or Tesco Bank,  my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
Neither Mr W nor Tesco Bank has responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither party  has responded to my 
provisional decision I see no need  to change it. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9286762