K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Canada Square  Operations Limited (CSOL) mis-sold his credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr H bought the policy in January 2001 when he took out his credit  card.  CSOL said it was 
an online  application and that it didnt advise Mr H to take out the policy. Mr H couldnt 
remember much about the sale, but said he wasnt given  a choice about taking the PPI, 
didnt get enough information  about it, and didnt  need it as he had good employee benefits.
The policy cost 59p for each £100  Mr H owed  on his credit card. If hed successfully claimed  
on the policy, each  month  it would have paid out 10% of what he owed on the card when he 
stopped working.  This would have carried on for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
CSOL sent in a copy of its computer records of Mr Hs credit  card application, along with 
screenshots of its application process  at the time. These show  that there  were  yes and no 
buttons to give a choice about  taking out PPI. And I cant see that either of the buttons would 
already have been completed.  So overall I think its most likely that Mr H did have a choice 
about the PPI  and that he decided to take it. I think he probably  just doesnt remember 
doing so as it was so long ago.
Im satisfied CSOL didnt  advise Mr H to take out the PPI. But it shouldve  given  him enough  
information for him to decide  if the policy was right for him. 
The screenshots show that the PPI policy information was included underneath the yes and 
no options. Im not sure how the information wouldve appeared on screen,  so I cant  be 
certain that CSOL clearly  pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But I dont think 
Mr H wouldve been affected by any of these. 
CSOL explained on the screen  that the cost of the policy was 59p for each £100 owed. But I 
dont think it was clear that interest  could be charged on the premiums,  or that Mr H wouldve 
had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
Mr H told us that, when  he took out the policy, he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer 
of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. He also said he had savings of about  
£1,500  based on the information shown  on CSOLs  computer  records this was equivalent  
to between one and two months  pay. On balance I think Mr H couldve found  it difficult to 
Ref: DRN94653942make the credit card repayments once his sick pay reduced or if hed lost his job. So I think 
the PPI couldve  provided a useful benefit.
Because of this, I think Mr H would  still have bought the policy if hed fully understood the 
cost and the benefits. So overall, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Which means CSOL  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But CSOL has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
CSOL got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  CSOL didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, CSOL has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive concluded the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Canada 
Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9465394