K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Nationwide Building  Society withdrew its mortgage offer on 
the day of completion,  when they were outside their prospective property with their removal 
vans.
Theyd like to be reimbursed for the costs they incurred.
background 
Mr and Mrs B applied  to Nationwide for a mortgage  on a new build property. Nationwide  
issued a mortgage offer on 26 January 2018,  which was slightly amended  on 8 February 
after a change to the property price.  The offer document said:
We can confirm that we are now bound by the terms  of this offer, unless one of the 
following occurs:
i)There is a material change in your financial or personal circumstances or in the value 
of the property which is to secure  the loan;  or
...
iii)The investigation of the title by the solicitor/conveyancer raises any issue  which 
makes the property unacceptable  to us.
In April, the developer who was selling the property wrote to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor. This 
letter was about  a possible right of way over the land,  which  was said to be for access  so 
that a farm could empty its cesspit.  There wasnt a right of way on the developers title to the 
land. But the people who said they had the right of way had emailed to say theyd  be taking 
criminal  and legal action about it. The developer  said it would offer a full indemnity for any 
claims brought.
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  wrote to Nationwide on 27 April, sending  a copy  of this letter and its 
attachments.
There were multiple emails about this between Nationwide and Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor over 
the next few weeks.  On 30 May,  Nationwide wrote  to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor, saying We 
can now confirm that Nationwide  will accept  the indemnity offered by the builder in this 
instance. You may proceed with the application  as normal on this basis.
Mr and Mrs B planned to exchange  and complete on their purchase and their sale on 
29 June. 
On 28 June, Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor wrote again to Nationwide. This letter said that the 
people who said they had a right of way had written  to the developers  solicitor,  saying they 
were going  to take legal  action. The solicitor asked Nationwide to confirm it still agreed  to 
completion the next day, 29 June.
On the afternoon of the day of completion, 29 June, Nationwide faxed a letter to 
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor.  This said that it could complete as long as Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor 
confirmed:
- that the indemnity covers us for loss in value and also if we cant sell the property 
due to the issue;
-that they have  investigated title and agree that all known rights  of way were  
extinguished as [the developers] claim;
Ref: DRN95937812-that the borrower accepts that further  issues etc may arise in future. 
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  confirmed the first and third points. On the second  point,  the solicitor  
said:
- having given  it considerable thought  I am regrettably unable  to give the reassurance  
that all known  rights of way were  extinguished as [the developer] claim, as we were 
not party to the original  transfers.
Mr and Mrs B were  waiting outside their proposed  property  with two removal  vans  and their 
two children under five. They  then had a phone call to say that their purchase couldnt go 
ahead.
Mr and Mrs Bs removal firm put their possessions into storage  over the weekend. As well as 
not being able to move in, Mr and Mrs B lost their buyer on their existing  property. Those 
buyers had been  in rented accommodation with a tenancy which was expiring, and theyd 
needed to buy a property in a particular school catchment area.  The buyers  were  effectively 
left homeless and went to see Mr and Mrs B, in a distressing meeting. Mr and Mrs B moved 
back into their old property  on a temporary  basis. 
Some months later, Mr and Mrs B obtained new buyers. The issue  with their proposed  
property was resolved,  and Mr and Mrs B said that reinforced their view that the issue hadnt 
been a significant risk to Nationwide, especially given the unlimited indemnity from the 
developer and the insurance policy they also had. Mr and Mrs Bs purchase  went ahead, 
with a mortgage from a different lender, because they felt Nationwide  had treated them 
unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs B were  very unhappy about what had happened. They  felt that nothing  had 
changed in late June about the known issue with the possible right of way. The people 
disputing the rights of way had said some months  earlier that they wanted to pursue this 
legally. Mr and Mrs B understood that it had been agreed that the underlying  financial risk 
relating to the possible right of way had been  addressed satisfactorily. They  didnt dispute 
Nationwides decision not to lend. But they said theyd incurred moving costs which could 
have been avoided if Nationwide had made a timely decision. And they pointed out that the 
neighbouring plot with the same alleged issue had completed on a Nationwide mortgage.
Nationwide didnt uphold  their complaint. It said that if the developers solicitor and 
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  hadnt thought the new information mattered, they wouldnt have told 
Nationwide. It said the risk was the unknown extent of the dispute, and what impact it would 
have on the property value if the right of way claim were to be upheld. Nationwide  said that 
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  hadnt been able to say that all known rights of way had been 
extinguished which put the property value  into question. Nationwide said it wouldnt 
comment on the next-door property which had a Nationwide mortgage, because  of data 
protection. It said it was within its rights  to withdraw the offer because it had been made 
aware of a significant material change the afternoon before completion.
Mr and Mrs B were  still unhappy and complained to this service.
The investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
He looked first at whether Nationwide had been  correct to withdraw the offer.  One of the 
conditions when Nationwide could withdraw  the offer was if there had been a material 
change to the property value. The right of way related in part to access  in order to drain a 
Ref: DRN95937813cesspit. This could  impact  the property value,  so Nationwides  withdrawal of the offer was 
reasonable.
But the investigator agreed  with Mr and Mrs B that Nationwide hadnt told them in a timely 
way. Mr and Mrs B had sought indemnity insurance to protect  against the risk, and 
Nationwide had accepted this solution  in its letter of 30 May.  And the information forwarded  
by the solicitors on 28 June wasnt new. The people who were claiming the right of way had 
emailed in March to say they would be taking legal action. This information  had been passed 
to Nationwide  some  months before the 29 June completion date. So the investigator  thought  
that if Nationwide wanted to withdraw  the mortgage  offer, it should have done so much 
earlier than the day of completion.  He said Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs Bs 
unnecessary removal  costs of £2386, plus interest  from the day of completion,  and a further 
£400 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs B accepted this view.  But Nationwide refused. It said the information it had 
received on 28 June showed  that the people claiming the right of way had taken  further 
action. And Nationwide argued that the solicitors had obviously thought it material,  because  
theyd informed Nationwide.  
Nationwide also said that it wasnt the case that it had withdrawn  the mortgage offer. It said 
that Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors hadnt  provided the assurances that Nationwide had asked for 
in its letter  of 29 June.  Nationwide said that the solicitor could have resolved the dispute and 
satisfied Nationwides  requirements, although  it would have been later than 29 June. 
Nationwide said it had been Mr and Mrs Bs decision to withdraw from the purchase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that Nationwide was entitled  to ask Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors  to clarify the questions it 
asked on 28 June  about the indemnity, title, and possible  future  issues. The possible 
dispute was about a right of way, partly  in order to facilitate regular emptying of a cesspit,  
and this might well have  affected the title to the property, and the value  of the property.  So it 
was a potentially  significant and relevant issue.
But Ive gone  on to look at whether Nationwide should have made  its position  clear at an 
earlier stage. Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor first wrote  to Nationwide about the possible dispute on 
27 April. In the various letters which  followed, Nationwide  asked for a range of extra 
information. For example  it asked  for confirmation  the insurance  would adequately cover any 
Nationwide losses; confirmation that Mr and Mrs B were happy to proceed given that there 
might be ongoing  issues over the right of way; and a colour  site plan with plot numbers and 
boundaries. This led to the letter on 30 May which confirmed Nationwide would accept the 
indemnity offered by the developer, and that the solicitor  could  proceed  as normal.
So Nationwide had known  about the right of way issue for three  months before the date for 
exchange and completion. This included the copy  of the March email  from the right of way 
claimants saying they were going ahead with legal action.  Nationwide  had asked for a 
number of extra pieces  of information,  and taken its decision on that basis.  While it was 
entitled to ask the questions it did on 28 June, I find that it would have been helpful if 
Nationwide had clarified these at the earliest  possible  stage. I consider that would have 
been, at the latest, when it took the decision on 30 May that it was willing  to go ahead.
Ref: DRN95937814So I consider Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs Bs costs,  and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they suffered. Ill deal with this in detail below, but I will first 
address the question about whether or not Nationwide withdrew the mortgage  offer.
In its objection to the investigators view, Nationwide said it hadnt  withdrawn the mortgage  
offer, but what had happened was that Mr and Mrs B had decided  to withdraw. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree, and said they didnt  withdraw. In fact they did move into the property  some  months  
later, using a different lender because they felt Nationwide had treated them  unfairly.
I consider it makes no difference to the fairness of what happened whether, technically,  
Nationwide withdrew  the offer, or whether it put a last-minute condition on the lending  that 
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  couldnt comply with. Either way, Mr and Mrs B lost their mortgage 
at the last minute, as a result  of something which had been known about  for some months. 
Going on to look at compensation,  I consider that Nationwides failure to notify 
Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors  of its position  in a timely way meant  that Mr and Mrs B incurred 
removal costs which they wouldnt otherwise  have  done. And anyone  whos  ever moved 
home can imagine how distressing it would be to have been  waiting at the new property, with 
their possessions in the removal  van, and then to have a crisis  which meant they couldnt  
move in after all. They  lost their sale, too, as a direct  result. This too was traumatic  for them,  
not only because  of the lost sale but also because they had the difficult experience of 
dealing personally  with their very distressed buyers.
So I find that Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs Bs removal costs of £2,586,  plus interest,  
plus £400 compensation for the distress which Mr and Mrs B suffered.
Ref: DRN95937815my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr and Mrs B:
-£2,586 to reimburse their wasted removal costs; and 
-Interest at 8% simple on £2,568 from 29 June 2018 to the date when Nationwide  pays 
Mr and Mrs B. If Nationwide considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate; and
-£400 compensation for distress and inconvenience resulting from not telling 
Mr and Mrs B about Nationwides position  in a timely way. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9593781