K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) have taken 
enforcement action on their loan after not contacting them for three years about it. 
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs A took out a loan with a business Ill call W. The loan was for a term of 
25 years  and was secured on their property. In July 2014 W sold the loan to Cabot. 
Mr and Mrs A complained to Cabot  on 7 November 2014 questioning Ws authority to sell 
the loan to Cabot. Cabot  wrote to Mr and Mrs A on 2 January 2015 and told them W were 
well within their rights to sell the secured loan and this was included  within  the terms and 
conditions under Transfer of Rights. They also said W would remain  as the registered  
owner of the debt on the Land Registry records until it was satisfied. Cabot told 
Mr and Mrs A they couldnt  provide them with a copy of the loan agreement  or the terms and 
their account  would remain on hold - without any collection  activity -until they could provide 
these documents.  This letter contained Mr and Mrs As referral  rights  to this service but they 
didnt bring the complaint to us.
Mr and Mrs A were  contacted by a debt collection agency acting on behalf of Cabot in late 
2018. The then complained to Cabot who found  they had been at fault in their dealings with 
Mr and Mrs A as they didnt send  them  the documentation promised in 2015 and didnt hold 
their account  correctly. They apologised and arranged to send Mr and Mrs A a cheque for 
£200 compensation for these failings.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  with this response  from Cabot so they brought the complaint  to 
us. They  told us they felt theyd be in a better position if theyd been making payments over 
the past three years. They told us that to settle the complaint theyd like Cabot to remove the 
charge on their property  and to reduce the debt by the amount they wouldve paid had they 
been making payments. And Mr and Mrs A said if Cabot didnt agree to this theyd like them 
to reduce the debt.
Our investigator thought Cabot could have  done more in how they handled Mr and Mrs As 
account. But she thought their apology  for the delay theyd caused  and not sending  the 
documents, along with the offer of £200 compensation was reasonable. She also didnt  think 
Cabot were unreasonable when they changed the name of the lender at the Land Registry. 
And the investigator  couldnt see that Cabot had explicitly  told Mr and Mrs A to stop making 
payments so she didnt  think  Cabot were responsible for this. So she didnt require Cabot  to 
do anymore.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree and ask for their case to be referred to an ombudsman. They 
thought the phone note Cabot had sent us from November 2014  was fabricated and that it 
was Cabot whod ignored Mr and Mrs A rather than the other way round. They told us Cabot 
had lied about  the review  date of the account in 2018 as activity had taken place on the 
account in June 2015, six months after their original  complaint when the Land Registry  
records were changed.  Mr and Mrs A said although  the investigation of compliant raised with 
Cabot in 2015 was out of date they didnt think we could investigate  this complaint without 
taking that complaint into account. And the original agreement doesnt state anywhere that it 
could be sold to a third party. They said this agreement was for a previous loan at a previous 
property so they questioned how Cabot could have a charge on their current  house for an 
agreement that didnt cover this property. They thought the £200 compensation was derisory  
and an insult.
Ref: DRN94125052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for much  the same reasons.
As Mr and Mrs A appreciate and accepted at the outset  of this complaint were  not 
investigating the complaint they raised with Cabot in 2015 as its likely  this had been brought  
to us outside the time limits.  So although Mr and Mrs A say the original agreement  doesnt 
state anywhere that it could be sold to a third party and remain  concerned  about this, Im not 
looking at the lawfulness of Cabots purchase  of the loan in 2014. But, as theyve asked in 
their email  of 16 April 2019, I have taken  these background facts into account  when coming  
to my decision.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion.  So I shant repeat that here. And Im afraid theres  not a great  deal I can 
add to what the investigators  already  told Mr and Mrs A. I think shes covered most points 
quite clearly and I agree  with her analysis and conclusions. So I wont be upholding this 
complaint as I think Cabot  have  already  responded reasonably  to Mr and Mrs As complaint.
I appreciate it would have been a shock for Mr and Mrs A to learn Cabot were now the 
registered proprietors  of the charge against their property for this loan particularly when they 
were told to the contrary in the FRL sent in 2015. But as the owners  of the debt Im not 
persuaded that Cabot did anything wrong when they made this change or that its to 
Mr and Mrs As detriment  in the long term. And thats because its likely to result in a more 
straightforward removal of the charge if its in the correct owners name at the time the loan is 
satisfied.
I know Mr and Mrs A question how Cabot could have a charge on their current house as the 
original agreement theyve now been sent was for a previous loan at a previous property. 
But the information from Cabot satisfies me that in 2006  - when Mr and Mrs A sold their 
previous home and purchased their current property - this charge (albeit partially repaid) was 
transferred to their current property.  And I can see Mr and Mrs A had legal advice at this 
time so I think they ought reasonably to have been aware of this.
I know Mr and Mrs A feel theyd be in a better position if theyd been  making  payments over 
the past three years. Whilst  I agree  that the amount  outstanding  would have reduced its also 
true that Mr and Mrs A have had the benefit  of retaining the money  which would otherwise 
have been paid to Cabot  each month. None of the mistakes made by Cabot justifies 
removing the charge  on Mr and Mrs As property or reducing the debt by the amount they 
wouldve paid had they been making  payments.
It isnt my role to punish  businesses for making  mistakes; its my role to put consumers back  
into the position that they would have been in if the mistakes hadnt  been made. And in 
doing so Ive also got to consider what steps Mr and Mrs A took to minimise  the impact  of 
Cabots mistake. Like the investigator, I cant find any evidence to support  Mr and Mrs A 
assertion that they were told not to pay. Nor can I see any evidence that Mr and Mrs A tried 
to contact Cabot  in the last three  years  to query what was happening or to offer to resume  
payments. Mr and Mrs A knew in 2015  they were  only 10 years into repaying  a 25 year loan 
and yet I cant see that they expressed any concerns to Cabot about the lack of contact  over 
this period.
Ref: DRN94125053Cabot have admitted  their failings and for those I think  the offer of £200 compensation is a 
reasonable response. Its the sort of award  Id have  made had it not already been offered by 
the business. Given how strongly  Mr and Mrs A feel about what happened  they may want  to 
pursue the matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what  we  
in trying to resolve  their dispute  with Cabot informally  can do for them.  Im sorry if this 
disappoints Mr and Mrs A.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Cabot Credit Management Group 
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs A the £200 compensation offered in their FRL of the 
14 November 2018 if theyve not already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412505