K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold  a packaged  bank account  called  an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland).  
background
Mr D took out a Platinum  Vantage Account (PVA) with Bank  of Scotland  in June 2012.
Mr D then took out an URCA in October  2017 which incurred a monthly  fee of £15 per month  
while he still had the PVA. 
Mr D says the URCA duplicated some of the benefits of the PVA so Bank of Scotland  should 
not have sold it to him.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ds complaint  and decided  that Bank of Scotland  didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mr D disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D says he received an online prompt and then a phone call from Bank of Scotland  inviting 
him to take out the URCA. He says that Bank of Scotland explained the benefits  of the 
URCA in substantial detail  on the phone call. He says he then told Bank of Scotland that he 
already had that cover through another account. But he says Bank  of Scotland told him he 
didnt have such cover  with Bank of Scotland. So he decided to take out the URCA.
So in this case its clear  to me that Mr D knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
URCA, that he had enough information  about  the product  to decide it was of interest to him 
and he decided to take it out.
The issue  Mr D is raising is whether Bank of Scotland misled him into thinking that he didnt  
have the PVA and so is responsible for him having  two accounts at the same  time with 
similar benefits.
Although Bank of Scotland says it has no record or recording of his phone call, I dont doubt 
Mr Ds honest recollections that a call took place. I dont know what  was said on the phone 
call but I will assume that what he says is correct and Bank  of Scotland told him that he 
didnt have another account with Bank of Scotland with similar benefits to the URCA. 
So, in this situation, I will consider whose responsibility it was to ensure Mr D didnt duplicate 
the benefits from his accounts.
In my view this was not an advised  sale. By this I mean that Bank of Scotland didnt  advise 
Mr D to buy the URCA or recommend he take it out. I say this because  Ive not seen 
anything such as any records  of discussions about Mr Ds needs and circumstances or 
suitability checks to show me clearly that Bank  of Scotland did make a personal  
recommendation to him. 
Ref: DRN97323272I accept its possible that in providing  information  to Mr D and explaining the benefits of the 
URCA, Bank  of Scotland may have said or implied that it was good  idea to take it out. But 
this isnt the same as giving personal  recommendations.  And based on this services 
knowledge of Bank  of Scotlands sales practices  throughout this period, I think  its more 
likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA  to Mr D on an information  only basis. 
This means  Bank of Scotlands responsibility  was that it did not have to ensure that the 
URCA was suitable for Mr D at the time of the sale but it did have  to provide him with 
enough information to make an informed  choice.
And as I said above I think  Bank of Scotland did so. 
Then, even  if Bank of Scotland incorrectly told Mr D he didnt have such benefits from 
another account with Bank  of Scotland, it remained his responsibility to check  whether he did 
or didnt  have them with Bank of Scotland or any other bank or financial institution. If he had 
discovered such duplication he could have closed  the URCA at any time.
So I know  this will be disappointing for Mr D but in my view it was his responsibility to check 
whether the URCA  duplicated his existing account benefits and I cant  uphold his complaint.
For completeness, I note that Mr D had a service complaint  with Bank of Scotland and in my 
view Bank  of Scotlands response  and redress to this was in line with our approach,  so I will 
not award anything  further.
I also note that Mr Ds complaint about his data security being breached is being dealt with 
under a separate complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019..
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9732327