K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nottingham  Building Society  has no record  of an account in his name. 
background
Mr S told us that hed found an old passbook in his name  from the Nottingham.  The last 
entry was in February 1997,  when  there  was just over £500 in the account.
Mr S said that hed asked  the Nottingham to pay this money to him, but it refused, and said it 
thought his account may have been  closed some time ago. But Mr S said that the building 
society didnt seem to have any evidence of this. And he did have evidence,  because he had 
the passbook. He said that the passbook itself said that the Nottingham  would need his 
confirmation in writing to say if it had been lost or stolen, and it hadnt shown him this 
confirmation. 
Mr S wanted  the Nottingham to pay him the money  shown on the last entry in the passbook,  
plus interest. 
The Nottingham said that this account  wasnt still open. It hadnt  been transferred to its new,  
computerised system in 2012. So it didnt  think it still had an account for Mr S. It showed us 
the searches that it had done  for the account, and it said that there was no trace  of it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she thought it was most likely that 
the account had been closed some time ago. She said it wasnt  always necessary to show  a 
passbook to get money out of an account. And she said that she appreciated Mr S had said 
that there  was no proof of what had happened to the account. But our adjudicator said that 
data protection  laws mean that Nottingham isnt supposed to keep a record  of personal 
information forever, if theres  no business  need for it. 
Our adjudicator said that the Nottingham had agreed it would search again if Mr S could 
send it further information,  like a statement. Our adjudicator didnt think that the Nottingham 
had made  a mistake.
Mr S didnt agree with that. He said that the Nottingham hadnt  been able to say for sure 
what had happened  to the money  in the account, and we hadnt either. He didnt think  that 
we should let the Nottingham, or any other financial institution, fail to keep records for as 
long as they were  needed, to prove what had happened to only a small percentage of 
accounts. 
Mr S said that the possibilities that the Nottingham  had mentioned werent proof.  He had 
proof. He wanted  his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman,  so it was passed  to me 
for a final decision.
While I was considering  this decision, Mr S sent our service a copy of an interest  change  
notification from the Nottingham,  for this account.  It was dated 15 January  2001. Mr S said 
that meant  that the account mustve been  live then. We asked the Nottingham  about this, 
and it said that the account may have  been  open  then.  But it wasnt  now.  There was no trace  
of this account after 2012, so the Nottingham said that it mustve  been closed between 2001  
and 2012. 
Ref: DRN98848672Mr S then wrote again, to repeat  that he had evidence, and the Nottingham had none, and to 
say that he thought that if the account had been closed without the passbook,  the 
Nottingham shouldve  kept evidence of that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our adjudicator  on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
I realise that Mr S strongly believes that the Nottingham shouldnt just be able to say it cant  
find his account,  and that this account  may have been closed some time ago, so it wont 
have records. He thinks that it shouldve kept records for this account. And in the absence  of 
those records, proving whats happened  to his money, he thinks  the Nottingham  should pay 
him the last amount shown  on his passbook.
 
I know that Mr S still has a passbook for this account, and hes recently  found a letter  telling 
him about interest rate changes for it. Those provide good evidence  that there was an 
account at some point.  But those items  dont really  suggest to me that this account is still 
open. As Mr S is aware, its possible for accounts  to be closed without a passbook  being 
returned to the branch. 
We know that this account couldve been closed without the passbook being handed in. 
Passbooks can get lost or damaged  or stolen. The bank or building  society  doesnt  get to 
keep the money  when  that happens.  The money still has to be given to the account  holder. 
So I think that this account could have  been  closed even though the passbook wasnt given  
back.
I know that Mr S said that what he has told us, and shown us, suggests that this account 
could still be open.  Hes also said he has evidence, and the Nottingham doesnt. I dont think 
thats quite right. 
Mr S has shown  us evidence that shows that there was an account at one point, and that 
suggests the account was open until at least 2001.  
The Nottingham has searched for this account  on its records, and it doesnt appear.  The 
Nottingham has shown  us the screenshots of these searches, so Im satisfied that theyve 
been done, and that nothing has been  found.  So I think  that the Nottingham does have 
evidence. Its evidence  shows  that it doesnt  have  an account for Mr S now.  
None of that proves what has happened to the account. And if theres no proof of that, either 
way, then what I need to do is consider all the evidence that Ive been  shown, and decide  
what is most likely  to have happened  here.
I note that Mr S has told us he had a number of accounts with different  building  societies 
around the time that we know this account  was open. He said that the amount of money in 
this account wasnt  a very significant amount for him at that particular time.  So I think it is 
more likely that Mr S has closed this account, without returning the passbook.  
I know that Mr S thinks that the Nottingham shouldnt  just be able to say that it has no 
records of the closed account. He thinks it should have to keep records  of closed accounts, 
and especially those  that were closed without  the passbook being returned, so it can prove 
Ref: DRN98848673what has happened to them.  But I dont  think that the Nottingham could know when it closes 
accounts, which of those closed accounts might be contested in future. And I dont  think  that 
Mr Ss suggestion that the Nottingham  should  just keep hold of copies of ID documents  that 
it used to confirm identification  when it closed  an account, in case  the closure  of the account  
is challenged many years in the future, would sit well with the requirements of data 
protection law.
 
Our adjudicator has explained to Mr S that banks and building  societies arent supposed to 
keep hold of personal information  forever.  They dont usually keep information for more than 
six years, and they arent supposed  to just hang  on to information in case it might be helpful 
in future. They arent supposed  to keep information if they dont  have a business need for it. 
The last records we have  of this account  are from over twenty years ago. So I dont think its 
surprising, if this account was closed some  time ago, that the Nottingham doesnt still have a 
record of this now. 
I realise that Mr S wont agree with me, but I just dont think  that this account still being  open 
is what is most likely  to have happened  in this case. I think the Nottingham has done all I 
would expect in searching for the account.  It cant find it. And theres nothing else to suggest 
that the account is still open now, or indeed has been open at any point since the 
Nottingham moved to its new computer  system  in 2012.  So I think it is more likely that the 
account has been closed. 
I also note that the Nottingham has said that if Mr S does  find more recent information about  
the account, then its happy to reconsider this conclusion. And it did that, when he sent us 
the letter from 2001 notifying him about  an interest  rate change.
I know Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think that his complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884867