K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs R payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2009. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs R have said we were totally unaware that this premium had been added.  
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person  making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. 
And I can see that the PPI was mentioned in a recommendation made to Mr and Mrs R, and 
a letter  setting out the proposed terms and costs  was sent to them.  I can also see that the 
recommendation was only for unemployment cover. This is unusual because lenders  usually 
sold insurance that also covered borrowers for accident and sickness  as well  but the 
recommendation records that Mr R (the person covered by the PPI) had said his work 
benefits for sickness meant he didnt need  it in the PPI. 
So the evidence  suggests that the PPI was offered to Mr and Mrs R as a choice, and was 
specifically tailored to their needs following a discussion with them.  So I think its likely  that 
they agreed to the PPI  even if they dont now remember so many years later. However, 
more importantly, without  stronger evidence I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Rs consent or knowledge.  
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, and this means it had a higher standard  to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs Rs particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Rs situation at the 
time. I say this because:
Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties.
Ref: DRN94410672Its likely  Mr R was eligible  for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when Mr and Mrs R would  need  to fall back  on any 
savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage  and other  living 
costs. This all would  have put Mr and Mrs R in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term unemployment. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs R to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs R would have  understood 
how much  it would cost. 
Its possible Barclays didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have been affected  by any of these.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  30 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9441067