K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the fees caused him financial hardship and also that 
they werent proportionate  to the service provided.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 8 June 2021, which  forms part of this final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint  and invited 
both parties to make any final comments ahead  of my final decision. 
Following this, Mr M didnt provide anything further for me to think about. Lloyds confirmed 
that it accepted  my provisional decision didnt provide  anything  further for me to think about 
either. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in my provisional 
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party,  I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 8 June 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN92887732COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr M has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the fees caused him financial hardship and also that 
they werent proportionate  to the service provided.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint. She thought that Lloyds ought to have 
realised Mr M was in financial difficulty when it moved to a new overdraft pricing structure in 
November 2017.  So it should refund the fees from this point. Lloyds disagreed  with the 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Im not intending to uphold  Mr Ms
complaint. Ill explain  why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that I havent  considered  whether the
various amounts  Lloyds  charged were  fair and reasonable,  or proportionate  in comparison to 
the costs of the service provided. Ultimately  how much a bank charges for services  is a 
commercial decision.  And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said,  while Im not looking at Lloyds charging  structure, or the various changes it made 
to it over the years, per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards  Mr M if it 
applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where  Lloyds didnt treat Mr M 
fairly and reasonably. 
In other  words, Ive considered whether there were periods where  Lloyds continued charging 
Mr M even  though it knew he was in financial  difficulty  or it ought  to have realised this was 
the case. 
Mr M has said that his income  reduced  in mid-2016. But I cant  see that he notified Lloyds of 
this at this time. Ive also looked through Mr Ms statements  throughout the period concerned 
I cant see that Lloyds  ought to have been  aware that Mr M might  have  been  struggling 
either. Mr M may argue  his regular  use of his overdraft was in itself an indication  that he was 
struggling. 
But while Im not seeking  to make  retrospective value judgements  over Mr M expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed,  non-contractual  and 
discretionary transactions as well as cash transfers  to Mr Ms joint account too. And its also 
fair to say that these continued  even  after Mr M was told about the change to the pricing  
structure. Equally  notwithstanding what Mr M has said about his income  reducing  in mid-
2016, the amount being credited to Mr Ms account  each month didnt indicate that there was 
Ref: DRN92887733no reasonable prospect of him seeing  a credit  balance  at any stage either. Indeed, its fair to 
say that there were  periods  when Mr Ms account balance was in credit.
I accept neither of these  things in themselves (or taken together)  mean  that Mr M wasnt  
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions  in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Lloyds to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances 
and in the absence of being told anything by Mr M, I dont  think that it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to proceed with adding  the interest,  fees and charges  it did. And I dont  think  Lloyds 
unfairly charged Mr M in circumstances  where  it ought to have realised that he may have 
been experiencing financial  difficulty.
As this is the case, Im intending to issue a final decision  which finds that Lloyds didnt treat 
Mr M unfairly  and that it doesnt need  to refund any of the interest, fees and charges. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing  for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened  to.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
If Mr M or Lloyds have anything further  to add before I issue my final decision, they should 
ensure anything they send reaches me by 22 June  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9288773