K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Temple  Retail  Limited (trading as Perfect Home) (Perfect Home) 
overcharged him on a loan he owed  it, deducted a penalty charge for a late payment that 
wasnt his fault,  and wont refund what he has overpaid.
background
Mr J had a loan from Perfect Home that he was repaying by instalments. His account was 
completely up to date until he lost his bank card and had to arrange a replacement card. He 
says he had trouble  making contact with Perfect  Home to tell them  this. He then says it 
charged him a late payment charge. Separately it continued to take money  from him after his 
loan was repaid.
He complained to Perfect Home. However it said it couldnt find evidence  of many  attempts  
by Mr J to contact it. So it didnt think the late payment  charge  was applied incorrectly.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said Perfect Home 
had admitted that in error it had overcharged Mr J. It said it had tried unsuccessfully to 
contact him to refund this. However  the investigator  pointed out it hadnt mentioned this in its 
final response to Mr J justifying the late payment charge.
The investigator recommended  that Perfect Home:
refund  any overpayments it had made;
remove any incorrect adverse credit information it had recorded against  Mr Js name; 
and
pay Mr J £100 as compensation  for the trouble and upset it had caused  him.
Perfect Home didnt accept this recommendation. It said it had tried several times to refund 
the overpayment  to Mr J. Then  it denied  that it had applied any charges to Mr Js account. It 
said the account was paid in full, so it hadnt recorded any adverse information on his credit  
file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J sent us his complaint, it wasnt clear from the information  Perfect  Home  supplied 
to us what had happened on his account.  So I asked the investigator to make  further  
enquires of Perfect  Home,  who confirmed the following:
1.a late payment fee was added to Mr Js account  on 16 April 2018;
2.this fee was removed on 23 April 2018. Perfect  Home said it had been  charged in 
error because no payment was then due on the account;
3.Mr Js account had been fully paid, and in addition Perfect Home had taken an 
overpayment of £13.69;
4.there shouldnt be any adverse credit information on Mr Js credit file. But it wasnt 
able to view Mr Js credit  file itself. If after viewing  his credit file Mr J found any 
adverse information  relating to his account  with Perfect Home, it would remove this;
Ref: DRN964969125.although it had made errors in adding a late payment fee, and taking an 
overpayment, it had removed the fee and had tried to refund the overpayment  to Mr J 
since it had identified  it; and
6.although Mr J said the reason Perfect  Home was unable  to phone him was that it 
was using an old phone  number,  and Mr J had sent it an email  with his new phone 
number, there was no evidence of this. So it thought it had done everything it could to 
put things right for Mr J.
In spite of what Perfect Home says about  it not being told Mr Js new phone  number, Mr J 
has supplied  copy emails  sent 19 April 2018  and 24 April 2014, to two different members of 
Perfect Homes staff, confirming his current phone number.
In addition, Perfect Homes final response  letter to Mr J dated 21 May 2018 tried to justify the 
late payment fee that had been charged, without telling him it had by then actually been 
removed, or that it needed to refund him an overpayment of £13.69.
So I dont  think Perfect Home has treated Mr J properly in the way it conducted  his account, 
and Im not persuaded that it did all it could  to put things right for him. I find this has caused 
him distress and inconvenience  for which its right he should  be compensated.
I conclude that Perfect  Home should  refund the overpayment of £13.69 to Mr J without 
further delay,  remove  any adverse  credit information  it may have  lodged  on Mr Js credit file, 
and pay him £100  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  its caused him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Temple Retail Limited (trading as 
Perfect Home) to:
1.refund  the overpayment of £13.69 to Mr J without further delay;
2.remove any adverse credit information  about Mr Js account that Perfect  Home  may 
have lodged on his credit file; and
3.pay Mr J compensation of £100  for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649691