K822xcomplaint
Mr S complaint is about a claim he made to Great Lakes  Insurance SE for damage  to his 
bedside cabinets.  The claim was declined and he doesnt accept it isnt covered by the 
policy.
background 
In February 2017  Mr S bought several  items or furniture, including two bedside 
cabinets/tables and alongside that purchase took out a five year furniture warranty.  The 
warranty covered accidental damage and structural damage to the items of furniture.
Staining & Accidental  damage resulting in a:
Water, liquid or heat marks from items  in normal household use; Breakages, dents, 
chips, scratches which have  penetrated through the surface  finish; or Breakage, 
scratches and chips of glass or mirrors  occurring  during normal household  use.
Structural defects resulting from:
Defects to frames caused  by breakage or becoming warped; Cracking of solid wood 
furniture; Peeling  of the finish on solid wood;  Bending and breakage to metal 
components; Excessive loss of resilience.
The warranty goes on to explain what is not covered and states:
Stains & damage that is consistent with wear and tear or anything  that happens  gradually 
In April 2019 Mr S made a claim for damage to the two bedside  cabinets. Great Lakes sent a 
technician out to inspect the damage. 
The technician described the damage to the cabinets as peeling of the surface treatment. 
Whilst Mr S had reassured the technician water was never used  to clean the cabinets,  the 
technician thought it looked  like water damage.  He confirmed  in his report that he was 
unsure of the cause of the damage. It was noted the cabinets were  26 months old.  
As damage  that occurs over time/wear and tear are excluded under  the policy terms, Great  
Lakes declined the claim. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and complained  to Great Lakes. It maintained  its position on the 
claim. Mr S subsequently referred the complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, and recommend it be upheld. Great 
Lakes didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. It commented that this service  has stated in previous 
decisions that we rely on expert opinion. Its expert had said the damage had occurred over 
time. In addition, it said that Mr S hadnt  provided  an explanation as to why the damage had 
occurred and pointed  out that the two cabinets are in different rooms. 
Ref: DRN90131342my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the technicians report,  including the photographs, I am satisfied the 
nature of the damage is the surface treatment  (which I will refer to as varnish) is peeling  or 
flaking off in areas. I am satisfied that this would be covered under the terms of the warranty.  
I have noted Great Lakes comments about  our reliance  on the evidence of technical experts. 
However, having reviewed the technicians report in this case, he says he is unsure of the 
cause of damage. Whilst he notes that it looks like damage from moisture,  he doesnt put 
forward the opinion  that it occurred gradually  or that it was wear and tear. As such, the 
technicians opinion would not automatically  lead to the conclusion the gradually operating 
cause/wear and tear exclusions  would defeat the claim.
The technician has said the damage looks like moisture damage.  However,  as our 
investigator pointed  out, water damage isnt excluded under the warranty.
I note Great  Lakes has said that the damage occurring to more  than one item of furniture in 
different rooms raises  concerns with it. It has also said that Mr S hasnt provided an 
explanation of how the damage happened. If Mr S had been claiming under the accidental 
damage aspect of the warranty,  I would expect him to be able to identify how the damage 
had happened. However, where a claim would reasonably fall under the structural aspect of 
the warranty, I would not expect  an insurer to question  the validity  of a claim because the 
owner couldnt explain how the damage  happened. Furthermore, the fact that there  is similar 
damage on more than one piece of furniture from the same range, bought at the same time, 
could indicate  a problem with materials or workmanship, rather than an issue  with their use 
once purchased. 
I would also comment that where  an insurer agrees to cover a piece  of furniture for five 
years, I would expect  that item of furniture to remain in functional condition  for that time 
unless there  was evidence of excessive use or abuse. There is no evidence of the furniture 
being used inappropriately, incorrectly cleaned or abused. As such, I wouldnt expect to see 
the type of damage that is evident in the photographs  after just over two years. 
I am satisfied that the type of damage evidence on Mr S furniture  is covered  by the 
warranty. However, the evidence does not support Great Lakes use of the exclusion for wear  
and tear/gradually  operating cause  to defeat the claim. As such, I am satisfied that Mr S has 
a valid claim which should be settled.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement  I require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to settle the claim by way of repair as detailed by its technician.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9013134