K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. 
Mr W says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr W has been represented throughout his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
RBS has provided a copy of Mr Ws credit card application form from 2002. Mr W had to 
actively tick to select  PPI. So I think RBS made  it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  RBS assessed Mr Ws individual  needs, such  as his employee 
benefits and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did. This 
meant it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr W got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr W was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look as if he was affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about  the policy 
exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to Mr Ws decision to take out 
PPI. 
Mr W told us he had a good stable job and he would have received around three months  
sick pay if he was off work due to an accident or sickness. Mr W also said that he had some 
savings that he could have used to meet his repayments. And as he was living at home 
didnt have many outgoings and his family  could have helped  if needed.  So Mr W says he 
didnt need the PPI.
Ref: DRN97411112In the event of a successful claim the PPI would have covered  10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr W was off work because  of an accident  or 
sickness or if he became  unemployed.  It would have paid out for longer than Mr Ws sick pay 
lasted, and it would have paid out in addition to his sick pay. So I think the policy could have 
been of use to him.
I appreciate that Mr W had some savings,  but having the insurance  meant  that he wouldnt 
have had to use his savings. And whilst  I dont doubt that Mr Ws family would have helped 
him in a time of need, peoples circumstances can and do change and they might not have 
been in a position to help when needed. Insurance is there  to protect  against  the unforeseen 
and having it in place meant that Mr W wouldnt have needed to rely on his family.
Ive carefully considered  everything that Mr W and his representative have said about  
Mr Ws circumstances at the time and not needing PPI. But I also have to bear in mind that 
RBS didnt make a formal  recommendation  to Mr W to take the policy  after assessing his 
individual circumstances.  It was for Mr W to decide  whether he considered the policy  to be of 
use to him. And as Im satisfied that Mr W chose  to take out the policy,  I think  he considered  
the PPI to be a useful  benefit for the reasons given above. So this point  doesnt  change my 
decision.
I accept that its possible  the information  RBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But as I said he chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
All things  considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the 
PPI policy  and Mr Ws circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because in 2017,  following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
RBS, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance,  looked at Mr Ws PPI policy.  RBS said that 
the level of commission  and profit share  it received did create an unfair relationship.  So to 
put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr W paid each month  for the time the 
commission and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It also 
included 8% per year simple interest  to compensate Mr W for any time he was out of pocket.  
Ref: DRN97411113Mr W says because he wasnt told that RBS would receive any commission  the PPI was 
mis-sold. So Mr W thinks he should get everything back. But in this case RBS has made  
Mr W an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of commission  it received that is in-line 
with the methods set out by the FCA.
So RBS has done  what the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ws particular complaint and 
circumstances that means RBS should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. 
In this case I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling RBS to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr W any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr W the difference  between 
what Mr W owes and what  he would have owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest 
if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so it doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741111