K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan of £5,000  Mr C took out in 2013  with Evolution 
Lending Limited. Mr C says Evolution  failed to do adequate checks  into his financial 
circumstances, and had it been more thorough, it would have rejected his application. Hed 
like to be put in the position hed have been in if the loan hadnt been  granted.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 12 August 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 30 August 2019  to reply; Evolution hasnt replied yet but Mr C 
has, and confirmed hes said all he wishes  to say. Theres no detriment  to Evolution if I 
determine the complaint now rather than wait until 30 August 2019.
In summary,  Mr Cs response is:
He used a standard  template to start his complaint and was unaware  it referenced the 
wrong regulatory standards, or even that others  existed. The main  thrust  of his argument 
is that Evolution should have asked for than one months information about his spending  
pattern;
He prioritised the payments to this loan because it was secured,  and he didnt want to 
lose his home. He avoided talking to Evolution - even  excluding it from a debt 
management plan he went  into in 2015 - because he was scared of how it might react  if 
it knew he was in financial difficulties.  
He continued  to take out short-term loans with various providers, after taking out the 
secured loan from Evolution. He eventually  paid the loan and other  debts off from an 
inheritance;
As to what he might  have done differently if Evolution had refused him, he couldnt be 
sure. Hed applied to many lenders  first, all of which had turned him down, before 
Evolution accepted  him. What he really needed was debt advise, and he only got that in 
2015;
He accepts he lied, out of desperation, but Evolution should  have  asked for more 
information rather than lend to a desperate man. He is in a much better position now,  
financially and personally.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful  to Mr C for the openness  and honesty  in his response  to my provisional decision. 
Hes spoken with remarkable frankness about the problems  he had during the period under 
examination. I dont wish to appear unsympathetic;  on the contrary, I can imagine the 
pressure and stress of dealing  with his situation must have been immense  for Mr C. Im 
pleased that hes been able to get the support he needed, and has turned his circumstances 
around.
Ref: DRN94120162The problem as far as his complaint is concerned, as I alluded to in the provisional decision, 
is it turns on what he would have done in 2013, if Evolution had turned him down. Looking at 
everything hes told us, thats  not a conclusion I can safely reach. Mr C talks about having 
searched high and low for a lender  willing to lend to him in 2013. I said in the provisional  
decision that if Evolution had turned him down, Mr C would have  most  likely continued 
searching for a creditor (and being  less than frank about the seriousness of his situation) and 
not stopped until hed found one that would accept him. I havent changed my mind  on that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94120163CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a secured loan of £5,000 Mr C took out in 2013  with Evolution Lending 
Limited. Mr C says Evolution failed to do adequate checks into his financial circumstances, and had it 
been more thorough, it would  have  rejected  his application. Hed like to be put in the position  hed 
have been in if the loan hadnt been granted.
background
Mr C borrowed £5,000 in 2013, repayable  over four years. At the time of applying, he says he was 
addicted to gambling, reliant on payday loans and heavily  in debt on credit cards. Mr C made all of the 
payments in full and on time,  and the loan was repaid in early  2017, slightly ahead of schedule, via a 
lump sum.
In 2018, Mr C complained  that Evolution had been at fault in granting the loan.  He said hed 
deliberately understated  his expenditure  when applying but Evolution should have been able to tell 
from analysing his bank  statements and credit file that the loan was unaffordable. Evolution rejected 
the complaint and Mr C referred  it here. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He concluded that Evolution hadnt properly 
assessed the severity of Mr Cs gambling  expenditure  or his payday lending  activity  in the two-month 
period before applying for the loan. In essence,  he thought the loan helped Mr C to continue  
gambling. To settle the complaint, he said Evolution should refund all interest and charges applied  
during the life of the loan, with interest on the refunded  sums at 8% simple.
Mr C accepted the investigators recommendations but Evolution asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. It said the investigator had applied the wrong standards when assessing  
its obligations; at the time the loan had been taken out, it was subject to Office  of Fair Trading rules, 
and they say creditors  shouldnt be held liable for relying on information  from consumers that later 
proves to be inaccurate. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to a different conclusion  from the 
investigator about how this complaint should fairly  be resolved. 
The parties  to the complaint have placed a considerable amount of emphasis on regulatory 
standards. Theyre important to a degree, albeit  it helps if the standards being  quoted are the correct  
ones. In that respect, Evolutions case has the advantage over Mr Cs, as he has referenced a 
regulatory framework that relates to consumer credit and which only came into effect  after he took out 
his secured loan.
But whilst I have to mindful of regulation and relevant law, my over-arching obligation as an 
ombudsman is to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. When  I do that here, 
taking into account everything the parties have said provided thus far, Im not persuaded  it would be 
fair to say Mr C should  be relieved of the cost of the money he borrowed.  
I say that because even if there were shortcomings in Evolutions assessment of the loans 
affordability, that on its own isnt enough for me to find in Mr Cs favour.  I need also to be satisfied that 
hes suffered  detriment as a result and that but for Evolution granting the loan, his current  position 
would be materially better than it is. Theres nothing in the evidence  before me that gives me reason 
to think  that.
Ref: DRN94120164Its significant that Mr C never missed a payment to the loan, and even repaid it early, receiving an 
interest rebate as a result.  That, on face value,  doesnt  suggest  he had trouble managing it. If hed 
had to take other  more expensive  credit  during the loan period to cover the instalments, Id have 
expected Mr C to have  shown us evidence of that.
But assuming that did happen, I also have to consider  what  Mr C might  have done  differently if 
Evolution had refused the loan, as hes now saying it should have done. Mr C has said he was 
desperate to borrow the money, so much so that he tried to conceal the extent of his difficulties from 
Evolution by pretending his expenses were lower than they actually  were.
Thats not very helpful  to Mr Cs case. Firstly, Mr C is admitting to having attempted to obtain credit in 
reliance on information he knew to be false. It seems to me that if Mr C were sufficiently desperate to 
borrow money that he was prepared to do that, theres a reasonable likelihood that if Evolution had 
turned him down, hed have  looked elsewhere  until he found  a lender that was willing  to provide the 
money he needed. That being so, its hard to see how his situation would  be significantly different 
now.
The other  damaging  aspect of Mr Cs admission is that hes effectively asking this service to make an 
award of compensation  that rewards his deception. Just because Evolution might have failed  to spot 
any anomalies in the information that supported  Mr Cs application, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable that he should  now benefit  from them.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties, my provisional 
decision is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint or make any order or award  against Evolution 
Lending Limited.
Ill review my provisional decision after 30 August 2019, or sooner  than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412016