K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold  him the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr H says that he wasnt told PPI had been added  to his credit card account. I dont doubt 
the honesty of this recollection. But the event in question did take place nearly 15 years  ago. 
And even  the best of memories can struggle over that sort of time frame. So this is 
something I have to consider when weighing up whats likely to have happened  in 2004.
BoS has provided us with a copy of the credit card application form that Mr H completed at 
the time of sale  a copy of which we have  shared  with Mr Hs representative. On this form 
there was a section  called Product Details, below which read the following: If you would like 
to take advantage of these services please mark the relevant boxes. One of the services 
was PPI. And in the box next to PPI there sat an X. While this looks like it may have been  
computer generated,  it would, in my view, have  been the likely result  of a conversation 
between Mr H and BoS as theres  nothing persuasive to suggest anything different. And as 
Mr H went on to sign the agreement right next to where it referred to PPI, I find it hard to 
argue that he didnt  agree to take the policy  or that he only agreed because  he had to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr H  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time,  I think that the policy was 
suitable for him. He doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And based on what hes told us about  his sick pay and 
ability to keep up with his repayments  using  other  means, he seems to have had a need for 
the cover.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr H clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr H paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give Mr H back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN90844082Unless BoS has already  paid Mr H, it will make the necessary arrangements  now that Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9084408