K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited 
(MBFS) is requiring  her to pay following the end of her car leasing agreement.
background
Miss K says MBFS  is charging her extortionate repair costs following the return  of the car. 
She says she wants it to acknowledge that the imperfections its identified  are slight  and not 
chargeable. She wants it to pay compensation for the stress and inconvenience its caused  
her. And she wants it to improve the way it treats its customers  in terms of reasonableness  
and proportionality.
Our investigator thought Miss Ks complaint should  be partly upheld  and MBFS should waive  
a charge of £210 for a scratch on a door and £85 for damage to an alloy wheel. 
MBFS disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said it was prepared  to waive the charge 
for the scratch to a door. But it said it believes its image of the alloy wheel shows clear 
damage to multiple  areas, in particular the spokes. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Miss Ks complaint and to require MBFS to waive the charges 
for a door scratch and for damage to an alloy wheel. Ill explain why.
I see Miss Ks leasing agreement required her to maintain the car in a condition  consistent 
with MBFS Vehicle Return Standards.  And I see it was inspected  in accordance with those 
standards at the end of her agreement.
Ive reviewed the images of the three items of damage MBFS is seeking  to recover from 
Miss K. 
I think theres clear evidence of damage  to a tyre. And I think it was reasonable for MBFS to 
charge Miss K for the cost of replacing the tyre, in the circumstances. I also think the charge 
of £224.07 for a premium tyre, including fitting  and related  labour costs  is reasonable, given 
the type and age of the car.
Having reviewed the images of the other two items of damage MBFS is seeking to charge 
Miss K for, Im unable to identify damage sufficient  to justify these charges. I understand the 
inspection took place in conditions of relatively poor artificial lighting and this may account  
for the quality of the images.
Im pleased to note MBFS has now agreed  to waive the charge of £210 for a door scratch.  
And I acknowledge it feels  strongly that the £85 charge for damage  to an alloy wheel is 
justified. However, our investigator has asked it to produce a higher  quality  image, but this 
hasnt been forthcoming. In these  circumstances, I think its reasonable for me to require 
MBFS to waive this charge, for the reasons  Ive indicated above.
Ref: DRN90999142So, I partly  uphold Miss Ks complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Miss Ks complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited. It 
must waive the damage charges its requiring  her to pay for a scratch  to a door and for 
damage to an alloy wheel.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9099914