K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained that Zenith Insurance plc failed to advise her at renewal that it has 
significantly changed the terms of her annual pet policy. 
Reference to Zenith includes  all its agents  including previous insurers  of this policy
background
Ms P had insured her dog with this policy since July 2011. It was managed by a company 
which I shall call A. And it was underwritten by an insurer, which I will call U and from which  
Zenith took over in July 2017. It is an annual  policy, which renewed every year. She had 
bought the silver  level of cover, which provided  of £4,000 of vet fees per year.
Ms P needed to make a claim in September 2017. She noted she didnt have the usual up to 
date claim form so she rang A and asked for one. A emailed it to her and she made  her 
claim, which was then paid in October 2017. The amount of this claim was £2,042.81 and 
Ms P received £1,762.03  after the excess of £85 and the co-payment of £195.78  was 
deducted.
Then she needed to make  a continuation claim in January 2018. However A or Zenith told 
her policy had changed at the renewal in July 2017  and her new policy was now 
underwritten by Zenith. The terms had also changed, as the amount of cover she had now 
was £2,000 of vet fees. This meant  Ms Ps claim in January £1,185.17 was not paid in full as 
she had only £737.97 left.
Zenith also said it had paid her claim in September under her old policy  instead of her new 
policy. It apologised and adjusted that.
Ms P complained. She said she never received any notification of this change.  Zenith said it 
was contained  in her renewal invitation, which it emailed to her on 26 June 2017. Ms P said 
she never received  that email. She thought on that basis, her old policy terms should run 
until July 2018,  which would also mean  her claim in January would  be paid in full excluding 
the excess and co-payment.
Zenith didnt agree so Ms P brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  Zenith  
did anything wrong.  Ms P didnt agree so her complaint  has been passed to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I do appreciate Ms P will be disappointed  with my decision but our role is to see if Zenith had 
done anything  wrong. Its clear that Zenith sent Ms P the email of 26 June enclosing the 
invitation to renew  her policy  with most  importantly  the changes  to her cover. Its also clear 
that Ms P didnt receive it. But given Zenith  sent it, it actually didnt do anything  wrong. So as 
it didnt do anything wrong then theres little I can ask it do to put things right.
Ref: DRN92520512Given Ms P had an annual policy rather than a lifetime policy, Zenith was entitled to change  
the policy terms with adequate notice,  which it gave in the email  it sent to Ms P, which  she 
didnt receive. So consequently Zenith didnt do anything wrong in so changing the terms of 
her policy either.
Ms P was aware her policy was due to renew  and obviously from her point  of view it had 
renewed as her premiums  were  still being taken. Furthermore  given she phoned up to get a 
claim form in September, she obviously believed she had still cover.
Its also clear  in that call in September that Ms P called  to request a claim form. Whilst Ms P 
noted she hadnt received  a new claim form for her new policy year,  there was little in the 
call to indicate to the adviser  that she had not received the renewal documents as well. 
When asked if it should be posted  or emailed, Ms P confirmed  she would prefer  it by email. 
This also indicates to me that Ms P was happy with all communication  being sent by email.  
And whilst it wasnt  Ms Ps fault she didnt receive Zenith email about  her renewal and the 
change of terms, it also wasnt Zeniths  fault as its clear it sent it to her.
Zenith also appropriately apologised and rectified  its mistake of processing her first claim in 
October on the wrong policy  terms. So although  this was a mistake,  I consider it properly 
rectified it.
I do understand how frustrating all this has been for Ms P but I dont consider Zenith needs 
to do anything more.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9252051