K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to review and subsequently 
close his accounts.
background
Mr B held two accounts with NatWest  a current account and a savings account. In 
September 2018, Nat West reviewed Mr Bs account and made a decision to end their 
banking relationship with him. The next day they issued him with 14 days notice that theyd 
be closing his account.
During the time, Mr Bs accounts  were blocked  so he couldnt access  his money. Mr B said 
this caused him financial  difficulty  and hes had to borrow  money  from friends and family.
Mr B thinks  Nat West closed his account because of an external  marker another  bank 
loaded against  him. But Mr B told Nat West that marker had been removed, so he thought 
they should give him access to his account again.  But Nat West said theyd made a decision 
to end the relationship under section 12 of the terms and conditions of Mr Bs accounts.
Mr B complained to Nat West. While  they acknowledged his concerns, they didnt  answer his 
complaint in full  so he brought the complaint to our service. In the meantime, Mr B was 
able to withdraw the remaining money  from his accounts in branch  in November 2018.
The investigator who looked at Mr Bs complaint  didnt think Nat West had acted 
unreasonably. He said theyre  entitled to review  accounts at any time and he was satisfied 
theyd given appropriate notice under the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs accounts. 
Mr B disagreed. He also raised new points and said he couldnt  make alternative banking  
arrangements because Nat West had blocked  his account. And theyd given him wrong 
information about when he could withdraw  his money and hadnt answered two of his 
previous complaints.
The investigator considered these points  but it didnt change things. He said he couldnt  see 
Nat West had caused any unnecessary delays while reviewing Mr Bs account. And he was 
satisfied Nat West were entitled to review it. So while he recognised it would have been 
frustrating that Mr B couldnt  access his funds, he didnt think Nat West had done anything 
wrong. The investigator also hadnt  seen  that Mr B had raised  any previous complaints.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr B so Ive 
explained my reasons  further below.
account review
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr B to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position  because he didnt  have 
Ref: DRN91436682access to his funds   Ive no doubt  this was a really difficult  time for him. But a bank cant 
always guarantee that funds in an account  are readily available.
Ive considered Nat Wests  actions  when reviewing and subsequently suspending Mr Bs 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
with their legal  and regulatory obligations.  And I havent  seen  that they caused any 
unnecessary delays when reviewing Mr Bs accounts. 
Mr B says he couldnt make alternative  banking arrangements  because Nat West held on to 
his money. And he said he was told incorrect information about when he could withdraw  his 
funds. Ive seen  Mr B withdrew  his funds in full in November 2018. And Ive found  that Nat 
West didnt cause any delays. I havent  seen any evidence of the incorrect dates being given 
to Mr B, but nonetheless, Im satisfied  Nat West acted appropriately in the circumstances 
when reviewing and suspending Mr Bs accounts. 
account closure 
Nat West are entitled to close an account  with Mr B just as Mr B may close his account  with 
them. But before Nat West closes an account, they must do so in a way, which  complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  
Ive considered the terms and conditions which apply for Mr Bs accounts.  And in particular, 
the term Nat West says they relied on. Section 12 explains the reasons Nat West can close 
an account and how much notice they have to give. Im satisfied, based on the information 
Ive seen, Nat West have acted in line with the terms and conditions.  
I appreciate Mr B thinks once he told Nat West the external marker had been removed from 
his credit file; they should have given him access to his account.  But Nat West had already 
made the decision not to bank with Mr B going forward.  And theyre not obliged to give him a 
reason why. So while I appreciate his feelings on this point, I cant fairly say Nat West have 
done anything  wrong.
dealing with the complaint
Mr B says Nat West didnt respond  to his complaint. I recognise  they didnt issue  a final 
response in the time they had to investigate Mr Bs concerns. However I have seen they 
gave him referral rights to our service. Therefore, Im satisfied they followed their process  
correctly.
Mr B has also mentioned two previous complaints. I havent seen any evidence of these 
complaints, and Im considering the circumstances of this complaint and whats happened  so 
its not appropriate for me to make comment on other complaints.
overall
In summary,  I know my decision will come as a great  frustration and disappointment to 
Mr B. But having looked  at whats  happened here I dont think Nat West treated Mr B unfairly 
when making the decision  to review,  suspend or subsequently close the account. So I wont  
be asking them to do anything.
Ref: DRN91436683my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9143668