K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  they were mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs B already had a mortgage. Acting on L&Gs advice, they re-mortgaged  to 
another lender, consolidating some unsecured debts in the process. 
Theyre now represented by a claims management  company  (CMC),  which  has complained 
on their behalf. The CMC says the mortgage was unsuitable, because they shouldnt  have  
been advised to consolidate  their debts. It also complained about the various fees,  including 
legal fees, they were  charged. And it says there  was a cheaper lender that should have been 
recommended, and the loan arranged was too large.  
L&G said the mortgage recommendation was suitable, and debt consolidation was 
necessary because Mr and Mrs B were  spending more than their income  each month, so 
needed to reduce their immediate outgoings. But it said the mortgage they took had the 
choice of either free legal services or £200 cashback. As they chose cashback  were charged 
around £350 by the conveyancing solicitor,  it offered to refund the additional £150 they paid, 
plus interest. Its also now offered  to pay Mr and Mrs B the commission the broker received 
from the solicitor, together with £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so the CMC asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the documents prepared at the time.  Theres a dispute  about whether 
or not theyre accurate.  The CMC says that at least one of the loans recorded on the fact find 
in fact had lower monthly payments.  But its not provided any evidence of that. And the fact 
find records another loan as being charged at 0% interest  the CMC says its inherently 
unsuitable to consolidate a loan like that. But L&G says that the loan cant have been  at 0%, 
since the monthly payments and term show that the amount repayable was around double  
the amount borrowed  which must represent interest charged.
Neither party has produced any independent  evidence of the position with the loans. All I 
have is the fact find itself.  I think its likely that Mr and Mrs B gave  the information included  
on the fact find to the adviser. And I think its more likely that they would know the amounts 
they were paying  each  month and the remaining term than it is that they would know the 
exact interest rate. I dont  think  the loan was at 0%; that entry is either  an error, or a default 
recording in the absence of knowing the true rate. And in any case  I dont think  consolidating 
a 0% loan is automatically  suitable or unsuitable  everything depends  on the wider 
circumstances.
I think the fact find is likely to be a broadly accurate record of Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
position at the time. It shows that they had significant unsecured  debt, to which they were 
paying more than their mortgage each month.  They  had no surplus  of income  over 
Ref: DRN91466922expenditure and were  reliant on their overdraft.  I think there was a real need to reduce their 
outgoings in the short term  which the re-mortgage  achieved. While doing so would  have 
cost them  more overall, I think that was a trade-off to be made  to achieve the short  term 
savings they needed to make. 
The surplus paid to Mr and Mrs B ended  up being larger than anticipated, though L&G has 
said that was because less was needed  to consolidate debts by the time of completion. In 
any case, Mr and Mrs B could have mitigated that by repaying any surplus to the lender, and 
theres no evidence  they did that.
The CMC also criticises  the choice of lender, as it wasnt the cheapest  of the products 
sourced. The adviser at the time noted that the cheaper lender wasnt available  because 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  meet its lending  criteria   both in terms of their income,  and also 
because of their property type.  Ive seen the valuation which records that the property was 
an ex-local authority  property not directly accessible from the road. Im aware  that some 
lenders didnt  and dont   lend on properties of this type. While I dont have any evidence 
of this specific lenders criteria  at the time, its credible that this was indeed its policy and I 
accept the reason for rejecting it recorded by the adviser as a reasonable one. 
The lender  offered the option  of £200  cashback  or a free legal service. Mr and Mrs B opted  
for the cashback,  but given the fees charged  by the solicitor this was not the best option. 
L&G has offered  to refund the extra cost they paid, as well as the commission,  and I think  
thats fair.
As for the fees the broker charged, while it may not have been the cheapest broker  it did set 
out its fees clearly  and Mr and Mrs B agreed to pay them, and received the service  they paid 
for. So I dont think they were treated unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont require it to 
take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9146692