K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Ms S a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Ms S took out a loan in 1996,  and at the same  time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms S disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 Ms S has said she wasnt aware that PPI had been taken out. The PPI started  over 22 
years ago and because of this theres little information available from the time. So I 
cant be sure how the policy was presented during any discussions. But, on balance, I 
think its likely that Lloyds  made  Ms S aware  the PPI was optional  and that she chose 
to take it out. I say this because Ive seen  a sample of the likely  loan document,  and 
this does show the PPI as optional  and it suggests you have to actively  make  a 
choice about whether  you take it. And I dont have strong evidence the PPI was not 
presented as optional. 
 It seems  that Lloyds advised Ms S to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based  on what Ive seen of Ms Ss circumstances at the time. The policy 
offered a benefit if Ms S was made  redundant. And it seems  Ms S was entitled to little 
sick pay and doesnt  appear  to have had significant other  means that could definitely  
have been relied  on. Ms S appeared to have been  eligible for the policy; and it seems  
also wouldnt have been affected  by any significant  exclusions within the policy.
 Ms S would have  received only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Ms S. 
 Its possible the costs of the policy  could  have been made clearer   for example its 
unlikely the interest on the premiums was made as clear  as it could have been. But I 
dont think the actual interest  on the PPI was so much that it would have put Ms S off 
taking it. Also the policy seems to have been  affordable for Ms S.
Ref: DRN90699502 Its possible that Lloyds didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover   but I cant  
see that Ms S would have been  significantly affected  by this. 
On balance, I think Ms S wasnt mis-sold PPI by Lloyds.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069950