K822xcomplaint
The complaint has been brought by Mr F 1 and Mr F 2 on behalf of F, a limited company of 
which they are the directors. They complain that Lloyds Bank Plc redeemed Fs two fixed 
rate loans without  the right authorisation, and charged  breakage fees. They  also complain 
about the banks decision to start reducing  Fs overdraft based  on a financial review that 
wasnt accurate. Mr F 1 and Mr F 2 are unhappy with Lloyds  overall customer  service.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr F 1 and Mr F 2 have  both authorised us to look into this complaint. But Mr F 1 has led 
the complaint  and submitted all the information and evidence, so any further reference to 
Mr F refers to Mr F 1.
Mr F has also complained about  the actions of specific Lloyds employees. But for ease of 
reading, any reference to Lloyds  includes the actions of its employees.
There is extensive background to this complaint which I wont  repeat in full detail here. But 
Ive considered the full timeline of events when coming to my provisional decision.
What happened  before the fixed rate loans were broken?
F had two fixed rate loans with Lloyds. Loan  1 started in August 2013, with the rate fixed 
until August 2018.  The loan was for £253,750, and it was to be repaid fully by August 2023. 
Loan 2 started  in June 2016, with the rate fixed until May 2021. The loan was for £400,925, 
and it was to be repaid  fully by June 2031. 
The terms and conditions  of the loans outline that breakage  fees would apply if the loans 
were repaid  early.
F also had a current account  with an arranged overdraft  limit of £115,000 with Lloyds from 
late 2016 onwards.
Mr F got in touch with Lloyds in early 2017  as F had some cash flow issues.  It took about a 
month until Lloyds was able to meet  with Mr F to discuss the situation. Mr F says Lloyds 
reassured him during that meeting that further lending would be approved   as it had been 
before. So, Mr F continued to buy material and pay for products for F with the expectation of 
further lending  being approved shortly, and that Lloyds would increase the overdraft limit 
until that happened.
Lloyds ultimately refused  to provide further lending and it took about three months to do so. 
Around the same time, Fs client took a significant rebate from its payment. As a result,  F 
was over its agreed overdraft limit for most of June  2017  on occasions  it was over £30,000 
in excess of the agreed overdraft limit of £115,000. Although it looks  like there  were  some 
temporary increases  to the limit at the end of June 2017, F wasnt  able to return  its account  
within the agreed overdraft limit of £115,000 immediately.
Ref: DRN92850662Mr F says he told Lloyds  that F was expecting a payment  in about a month that would bring 
the account back within the agreed overdraft limit. But Lloyds arranged  a meeting with F in 
July 2017 before this payment came through.
Following the meeting,  Lloyds outlined some concerns  it had about  Fs financial situation.  
And it said that because  F wasnt able to pay its creditors as they fall due, Lloyds would like 
F to meet with one of its panel accountancy  firms to understand the issues  and offer any 
specific advice and support. 
Lloyds also said that for it to continue to support F, its likely F would need to engage with 
one of its panel accountancy  firms for independent advice and to provide a recommendation 
for F and Lloyds. 
So, Lloyds gave  Mr F a few names from its approved panel of accountancy/insolvency firms. 
The first consultation  was free, but the full report incurred a cost. F signed an engagement 
letter with one of the firms, accepting all costs for the financial review.
The report  that was produced following this review highlighted  a number of concerns with Fs 
financial situation. It concluded that F was currently insolvent on a cash  flow test. F was also 
forecast to be in excess of its agreed overdraft limit of £115,000 through to end of 
September 2017. The report concluded  that there were concerns about  the viability of F, and 
refinance would significantly increase  costs  and put the family farm at an increased risk of 
foreclosure.
So, Lloyds made the decision to start reducing  Fs overdraft gradually  to a level it was more  
comfortable with, as it didnt feel the level of borrowing could be sustained. But Mr F says the 
accountants report was inaccurate and says Lloyds should reimburse him for the costs  
relating to the report. He says he sought  independent advice that confirmed the problems F 
had were only short term.
Following the financial  review, Lloyds says it told F it would  be reducing its arranged  
overdraft limit by £20,000 a month, starting  from the end of September 2017. Following this, 
Mr F told Lloyds F was looking to move its banking elsewhere. And Mr Fs emails to Lloyds 
at the time asked  for its continued support until this happened.
Shortly before the first overdraft reduction was due to take place,  Lloyds blocked  Fs 
account. The reason Lloyds gave  for this was that F (and its sister company) had granted  
debentures in favour of another finance provider as security for funding F had obtained to 
cover its short term financial needs. Lloyds says it needed to block the account until it 
received a deed of priority  confirming the priority of its debenture was preserved.
Mr F sought the necessary paperwork, and the block on Fs account was removed within  two 
days of the date it was applied.
Shortly after this, Lloyds  made the first reduction in Fs overdraft limit by £20,000. Mr F says 
this came as a surprise as hed been  in regular contact with Lloyds about an offer hed been 
waiting for in order to move Fs banking completely to another finance provider  which 
would include repaying all Fs borrowing with Lloyds.
Ref: DRN92850663As the overdraft limit was now reduced  to £95,000, Mr F borrowed funds from his family to 
bring the outstanding debt within the new limit. At the same time, Mr F continued to seek  
long term financing elsewhere to repay all of Fs borrowing with Lloyds. The overdraft limit 
wasnt reduced again until after the loans  were broken.
Mr F says it was Lloyds actions that led to F needing to move its banking elsewhere; the 
reducing overdraft didnt allow F to operate as it needed to. Lloyds also held the security 
over the family farm.
What happened  after the loans were  broken?
F received  a formal  offer from another finance provider which  would enable  it to repay both 
of the fixed rate loans and the overdraft with Lloyds. This offer was originally made in late 
September 2017, but F was still waiting for the finance in December 2017. While waiting for 
the funds, Lloyds provided  F with quotes to redeem the fixed rate loans in December 2017.  
During one of the calls between  Mr F and Lloyds, Lloyds asked if Mr F was in a position to 
agree for the redemption to go ahead. Mr F says he thought this meant his solicitors  had told 
Lloyds the funding had been approved,  so he said yes. Mr F also agreed  to the breakage  
fees to get matters moving, but hed made it clear to Lloyds he wasnt happy the fees were 
going to be applied.
After this, the funding  from the third party didnt materialise as the terms had changed at the 
last minute. But by this point, Lloyds had already withdrawn the overdraft limit, closed the 
two fixed rate loans,  and applied the breakage fees.  The outstanding debt had been moved 
to Fs current account which meant the account was now overdrawn by over £600,000. This 
happened in December 2017.
Mr F continued to seek funding elsewhere,  and Lloyds  agreed to allow an informal  overdraft 
limit of £643,000 until 3 January 2018.  This covered  the two loans and an overdraft limit of 
£95,000. Lloyds  said it would then reduce the informal  overdraft limit to £583,000  until 
31 January 2018.  This covered the two loans and an overdraft  limit of £35,000.  
This would then be reduced  further  to £563,000  so a further £20,000 reduction in the 
overdraft limit  until end of February  2018. By this point, Lloyds expected the overdraft to be 
repaid in full, and the bank account  to be closed. F repaid all its borrowing with Lloyds in 
February 2018 before the final deadline.
At the end of February,  after F had repaid all its borrowings, Lloyds became aware of a new 
debenture granted by F to another finance  provider and it appears  to have blocked Fs 
account. At this point  the account  was in credit. Lloyds says this was done because  there  
was a risk that any funds  collected into and paid from the account could subsequently be 
claimed by the new lender. So, Lloyds said it needed an account operating letter  from the 
new finance provider.  The block  appears to have  been removed the following day. F closed 
its account with Lloyds in March 2018.
What Lloyds has done to put things right
Before the complaint was brought to us, Lloyds accepted it couldve done some things 
differently and paid £300  compensation to F in recognition of this. It said:
Ref: DRN92850664It had unreasonably delayed meeting with Mr F in early 2017, and had delayed in 
providing a reply to his request for further  lending; 
It mightve been helpful if a reminder  letter or a call had been  made  to Mr F before the 
first overdraft  reduction took place at the end of September 2017;  and 
It wouldve been helpful for Lloyds to call Mr F about the need to send the Deed of 
Priority when Fs account was blocked  for the first time  in addition  to sending an email. 
Lloyds also said it couldve done more to make sure the loans were  broken on the next 
repayment date in December 2017,  as this wouldve resulted  in a lower  breakage  fee for 
loan 1. However, the breakage cost for loan 2 wouldve been higher.  But Lloyds offered to 
refund the difference of the higher breakage cost for loan 1, and add 8% simple interest.
Lloyds has also said it didnt charge any interest  on Fs current account  debt after the loans 
were broken.
What weve  said so far
One of our investigators  looked into Fs complaint.  He thought  it was Fs decision  to go 
ahead with the accountants  report, so he didnt think  Lloyds needed to pay for it.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  did everything  right when it broke  the loans. But he 
thought that F wouldve  broken the loans soon after anyway, so he didnt think Lloyds  should  
refund the breakage fees. However, he thought Lloyds should refund all interest and charges 
it applied after the loans were broken  but Lloyds could deduct from this the interest F 
wouldve been charged on the loans,  had they still been open.
Our investigator also thought Lloyds should  pay F £400 to compensate  it for the 
inconvenience it caused, in addition to the £300  already paid.
Lloyds agreed  to pay the additional £400, and said it hadnt charged  any interest on the 
overdraft after the loans were broken. Mr F didnt agree with our investigators findings. As 
no agreement was reached, the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, its clear how strongly Mr F feels about  the events surrounding the complaint. And 
Ive considered all the points  hes raised  as well as everything Lloyds has said. My role is 
to be impartial and to reach a decision  that I think is fair and reasonable. And to do so, Ive 
only commented on the issues that I consider are material to the outcome of the complaint.  
So, my findings  arent as detailed as the submissions Mr F has given us.
Where available, Ive placed  more weight  on contemporaneous evidence (such  as emails 
and other  written documentation) than on evidence produced  later (such as recollections of 
either party),  given the time that has passed  since the events occurred.
Financial review
Ive taken into account what Mr F has said about the events leading up to the meeting in 
July 2017 to understand the full circumstances of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN92850665Mr F says that based on Lloyds assurances  that further lending would likely be approved,  he 
continued to buy material and pay for products for F. But Lloyds declined  further  lending  as it 
had concerns about Fs financial situation,  and it explained its reasons to Mr F.
I appreciate what Mr F says about Lloyds assurances that further lending would likely be 
made available.  But Im also mindful  that Mr F wouldve known theres a formal loan 
application process that would need  to be followed.  And I havent seen anything  to show  that 
Lloyds formally agreed to make further  lending available  to F.
After further lending was declined, Lloyds  introduced  F to a new relationship  manager  who 
provided business support as it had concerns about Fs situation. This was  amongst other 
things  because  Fs current account was in excess of the agreed overdraft limit, and there 
were overdue creditors chasing  for payment, while other payments were due, such as 
wages. Lloyds also said payments had been returned unpaid  for some time, by that point.
Lloyds had concerns  about Fs financial situation, and F had debts with Lloyds totalling over 
£600,000. Taking  everything into account, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask 
Mr F to meet  with one of the members from its approved panel of accountancy/insolvency 
firm to look into Fs financial situation and make an independent recommendation.
I can see Lloyds confirmed to Mr F that it was up to him which  member  from its panel he 
decided to use. An email from the time suggests  Mr F had said he doesnt specifically mind 
which one, and Lloyds  said itd be happy to provide  more names  if needed. Lloyds provided 
first the name of one panel member,  and when Mr F asked, it also provided another  name. 
Mr F then signed an engagement letter with one of the suggested members  which  included  
his agreement to paying all costs involved.
Ultimately, I think  it was for F to show Lloyds how it intended to improve its financial 
situation. And as I explained, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds  to ask for an 
independent recommendation. F also agreed to go ahead with the accountants  report, on 
the basis that it would meet the associated costs. And I havent seen any suggestion that 
Lloyds agreed  to cover those costs. So, I dont think Lloyds should refund the costs of the 
report.
Mr F says the results  of the review were  inaccurate. In essence,  he says that the issues 
identified by the report were only short term. He says sales forecast  werent taken 
appropriately into account, or the nature of the business, and incorrect  assumptions  were 
made.
Based on what Ive seen,  the accountancy firm relied on information provided by F, and it 
made recommendations based on this. And Mr F says he made Lloyds  aware that he 
disputed the findings of the report.  But overall,  I dont think  it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to 
rely on a review completed  by an independent accountancy firm.
Reducing Fs overdraft limit
Lloyds had the right to reduce  or in fact, remove  Fs overdraft facility  as per its terms and 
conditions. So, I dont  think  Lloyds  decision  to reduce Fs overdraft  facility  was in breach of 
its terms and conditions.  But I have  concerns  with how this was done,  given Fs situation  and 
potential ability to comply  with the proposed  limit reductions.
Ref: DRN92850666The accountants report basically  concluded  that F was in financial difficulty. And the 
Standards of Lending Practice  (Business  Customers)  outlines that when  a customer  is in 
financial difficulty, the bank should,  amongst  other  things, ensure that the solution offered 
does not exacerbate the customers situation.  
The Standards also explain that the bank should  either give the customer the opportunity  to 
take action to turnaround the business  or it should  give the customer reasonable period of 
time to consider  the options open to them if the bank is unable  to support a turnaround  plan. 
However, this doesnt mean Lloyds needed  to support F indefinitely  or to keep the existing 
overdraft limit in place until F was able to secure  lending elsewhere. So, Ive thought about 
what action wouldve been  fair and reasonable given  the information  Lloyds had at the time.
I note that the accountants report said Fs sales were forecast  to pick up from mid-
September 2017 onwards   although this wasnt guaranteed. But in any event,  the report  
said the account was forecast  to be in excess of its agreed overdraft of £115,000 until end of 
September 2017. Based on this, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Lloyds to start 
reducing the overdraft  limit at the end of September 2017. Lloyds shouldve known F wasnt  
in a position to pay the overdraft down to the revised limit at that point.
The report  said the end of September 2017  was when  a turnaround may be achieved.  And I 
understand the nature of Fs business is seasonal, with sales  picking  up in the autumn. 
Although it doesnt  look like Lloyds was willing to support Fs turnaround  plan, however, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Lloyds to allow  F some additional time before 
implementing the first reduction in the overdraft  limit.
Ive seen an email from Mr F to Lloyds in early September 2017 where he asked for its 
support while  hes seeking to move  Fs banking elsewhere. Mr F also sent Lloyds an offer F 
had received in late September  2017  for a loan that wouldve enabled F to repay  all of its 
borrowing with Lloyds.  I think this also shouldve prompted Lloyds to reconsider the first 
overdraft limit reduction. But I dont think it necessarily needed to wait until the further  
lending came through to take any action.
There is no specific formula for how much  additional time wouldve been reasonable. The 
accountants report suggested a turnaround may be achieved at the end of September 2017. 
So, I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable  for Lloyds to start reducing  the overdraft limit 
a month  or so later,  for example, at the end of October  2017.
If Lloyds hadnt  reduced  the overdraft limit at the end of September 2017, Mr F wouldnt 
have needed to borrow money  from family to cover  the excess  position  on Fs account. So, 
this decision by Lloyds  wouldve  caused F some  inconvenience which it ought to be 
compensated for. I also think Lloyds should  refund any additional interest  and charges F 
paid as a result of the overdraft limit reducing from £115,000 at the end of September 2017 
until end of October 2017.
I havent seen  persuasive evidence  of consequential  financial  loss here. I know  F took out 
some short term financing  before the overdraft limit reduced. But based on everything Ive 
seen, it looks like this was to allow F to operate as it needed to without Lloyds providing any 
further lending.  It doesnt appear  to be as a result of the overdraft limit being  reduced in 
September. So, I dont  think  the costs relating to the short term financing  are a direct  
consequential loss of Lloyds starting  to reduce the overdraft limit in September 2017  instead 
of October  2017.
Ref: DRN92850667The overdraft limit didnt  reduce  again  until after the loans were  broken, so Ill consider this 
later in my decision.
Blocking Fs account
Lloyds has already accepted that it couldve done more  to let F know  what  to do when it was 
made aware  of the debentures granted in favour of another finance provider. But I also think 
Mr F shouldve known  the loans, and the overdraft, were secured against  property.  The 
terms of the fixed rate loans also state  that until the loans are repaid, F shouldnt  give any 
other finance provider  a security interest  over the business or any of the property. 
So, it shouldnt have  come as a surprise to Mr F when Lloyds took action to protect its 
position by blocking  Fs account until it received a satisfactory deed  of priority from the other 
finance provider.
Mr F says Fs current account  was blocked a second time after F had already repaid all of its 
borrowing with Lloyds,  and the account was in credit. This happened while F was waiting for 
a new account  with another bank to open  so F could close  its account with Lloyds. 
Lloyds says it did this after being made aware  of a new debenture, which  meant it needed to 
block the account until it received an account operating  letter from the new lender. As I 
understand it, this was because there  was a risk that any funds  paid into, and out of the 
account, could  subsequently be claimed  by the new lender.
I accept that it may not have been  completely  clear to Mr F as to why Lloyds needed to block 
Fs account  at this point,  as F had repaid  all its borrowing with Lloyds and the account was in 
credit. But I dont think the explanation  Lloyds has given is unreasonable. Ive also taken into 
account the fact that Lloyds had already previously made Mr F aware of what  it needed  to 
see when a new debenture  was granted. 
Overall, I dont  think Lloyds acted unreasonably  here.
Breaking the loans
It looks like there was a communication breakdown when the loans were redeemed in 
December 2017  and the debt added to the current account. Lloyds says Mr F authorised  it to 
break the loans.  But Mr F says Lloyds misled him into doing so.
Mr F says F shouldnt be liable for the breakage fees as the terms and conditions of the 
loans say they only become payable where  either  the bank requires the customer  to repay  
the loan early, or the customer repays the loan early. Mr F says as neither of these 
happened here, Lloyds cannot apply the breakage fees.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said. But my remit is to make a finding that I think  is fair 
and reasonable.  And where  a mistake happened, I should direct the bank to put the 
customer in a position they wouldve been,  had it not been for the mistake.
Ref: DRN92850668I think its clear  from the contemporaneous correspondence  that F intended to secure 
finance and banking facilities elsewhere  and move all its accounts away from Lloyds. Ive 
seen an email from Mr F to Lloyds in early  September 2017 where he asked for its support 
while hes seeking to move Fs banking  elsewhere.  Mr F also sent Lloyds an offer F had 
received in late September 2017  for a loan that wouldve allowed F to repay all of its 
borrowing with Lloyds.
So, I think it was Fs intention to break the loans once further finance was approved.  And I 
can see that Mr F was aware  of the break costs  albeit he disputed  that F was liable  for 
these.
Mr F says that Lloyds actions meant F had no other  choice but to find finance  elsewhere. 
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  that Lloyds was asking for early repayment of the 
fixed rate loans. Rather, Lloyds decided to start reducing Fs overdraft  limit, and it declined  
Fs application for further lending. 
I accept that F might not have been  able to find other long term financing without repaying  its 
borrowing with Lloyds,  as Lloyds held security over the family farm. So, Mr F faced a difficult  
decision about the future of F, as Lloyds wasnt willing to continue to support F with the 
existing overdraft limit.
Overall, I think it was Mr Fs decision to move all of Fs banking to another  provider. And the 
contemporaneous evidence shows that F was seeking to borrow  an amount that would allow  
F to repay all of its borrowing with Lloyds.  So, as F was intending to redeem the loans  early  
as soon as it had secured other  financing,  I dont think Lloyds should refund the breakage 
fees. 
But I dont think Lloyds  acted fairly  in breaking  the loans in December  2017.  I havent seen 
persuasive evidence  to show that F or its solicitors guaranteed money would be sent to 
repay the loans  on the day. And ultimately,  I think it wouldve been  reasonable for Lloyds to 
wait for the money to actually  be received before breaking the loans. This is a process that 
Lloyds would have  followed  many times  in the past, so Im struggling  to understand why 
Lloyds would have  taken the decision to break  the loans, when it hadnt received the 
repayment sums.
With that in mind, I think Lloyds should recalculate  what the breakage  fees wouldve been 
when the funding actually came through  and all of Fs debts were repaid in February  2018.  
And I think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds  to calculate this for the original loan 
repayment date in February 2018,  rather than the actual  date when everything  was repaid. 
This is because Lloyds has already accepted it shouldve done more  to let F know  of the 
impact in breakage  fees based  on the date in the month the loans were broken. And Lloyds 
should have known that the loans werent to be broken until such  time as F was in a position 
to repay  them   in other words  the repayment monies  had been  received.
Ive considered if this caused F inconvenience,  and any other financial loss, below.
Ref: DRN92850669The overdraft after the loans were broken
Lloyds allowed F to operate within an informal overdraft of £643,000  after the loans were 
broken  this covered the broken  loans and an overdraft limit of £95,000. I think  this was fair 
in the circumstances.
Unfortunately, F wasnt in a position to go ahead  with the other financing it had been  
expecting to receive since September 2017  as the terms had changed.  Mr F says that 
because Lloyds broke the loans when it shouldnt have done so, and added  the debt on an 
informal overdraft, this added additional pressure to secure financing elsewhere.
But Im also mindful that F was already aware  in July 2017  so five months previously  that 
Lloyds wasnt willing to support it with further  lending, or with the current  overdraft limit. And 
F had started seeking other financing shortly  after. Ultimately, it wasnt Lloyds fault that the 
financing F had been  expecting  since September 2017 didnt go through.  So, I think F 
wouldve continued to seek  other  financing even  if Lloyds  hadnt broken the loans, to allow  F 
to operate as Mr F wanted it to.
Ive also seen contemporaneous emails that F approached  a lender that had been a backup 
option from the beginning.  And this borrowing  was secured within  a few months, and F 
repaid all of its borrowing  with Lloyds.
So, it doesnt look like Lloyds decision to break the loans early caused  F significant 
inconvenience. I think it wouldve continued  to seek funding elsewhere whether the loans 
were broken  or not. And I can see it approached  and eventually  secured  funding  from a 
lender that had been a backup option from the beginning.
But Ive also thought about  the actions Lloyds took to reduce the informal  overdraft limit of 
£643,000 from 3 January 2018 onwards.
As Ive explained before, I dont think it was inherently wrong of Lloyds to consider reducing 
Fs overdraft limit. And I can see that it hadnt continued with the planned reductions of 
£20,000 a month since the first one. So, it looks like Lloyds was supporting F while  it was 
seeking funding  elsewhere.
But it also looks like when  the funding F had been  expecting didnt go through  as planned, 
Lloyds continued  to take action to reduce the overdraft limit. If it had kept up with its original 
plan of £20,000 a month  from end of September 2017 onwards, the overdraft limit wouldve 
reduced to £35,000  by the end of December 2017. 
So, it looks  like Lloyds plan to reduce the limit to £583,000 (covering  the fixed rate loans and 
an overdraft limit of £35,000) on 3 January 2018  was to revert  back to the original plan. And 
Lloyds was continuing with the plan by reducing  this to £563,000  at the end of January 2018. 
By end of February  2018, Lloyds said F shouldve repaid all of its borrowing with Lloyds.
Firstly, I appreciate that up until this point,  Lloyds hadnt been  asking for the full repayment 
of all of Fs borrowing  including the fixed rate loans. But now that the debt had been placed 
in the overdraft account, it was doing so. However, I dont think  this makes a material 
difference in the outcome  of the complaint.  I say this because it had been Fs intention since 
at least early September 2017 to secure financing to repay  all its borrowing with Lloyds. I 
havent seen any persuasive contemporaneous  evidence to show  that this had changed.
Ref: DRN928506610I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to continue reducing Fs overdraft limit when the 
financing that had been expected didnt go through. F had also been aware since  July 2017 
that Lloyds wanted to reduce this by £20,000 a month.
As I said earlier in my decision,  I think Lloyds started the reductions  earlier  than it should 
have. So, had Lloyds  started the reductions in October 2017 instead of September  2017,  the 
reduction in December 2017 wouldve been to £55,000 instead of £35,000.
But Lloyds has also said it didnt charge F any overdraft interest after the loans were broken. 
Ive only seen two returned payments before F was able to bring the balance  within  the new 
limit of £583,000. If Lloyds  charged  fees for returned  payments, it should refund those.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence of a consequential financial loss here,  and F was 
able to keep up with the reducing overdraft limit from 11 January 2018  onwards. But I think 
Lloyds reducing  the limit to £583,000 instead  of £603,000 (so covering an overdraft limit of 
£55,000) caused  F some inconvenience.
To put things right, I think Lloyds  calculate the position F wouldve been in as if the loans 
were broken  in line with my findings under the previous heading  for breaking the loans, 
rather than in December  2017. Lloyds should also take into account reductions in the 
overdraft limit to £55,000 on 3 January  2018, and to £35,000 on 31 January 2018  instead 
of the reductions  it made.
The overall impact Lloyds actions had on F
Ive thought about the impact Lloyds  actions had on F. It has clearly been a very upsetting 
time for Mr F and his family. And I accept Mr F has been impacted by Lloyds actions as hes 
been dealing  with the matters on behalf of F.
But as the complaint Ive looked  at is Fs complaint against Lloyds, I can only consider the 
impact Lloyds actions  had on F  not on either Mr F personally, or their family.
Mr F has also referred to the Cranston Review, and hes asked me to consider 
compensation to F in line with this reviews  sections on compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. But I dont  think the review is relevant  to Fs complaint. 
The review  looked  at how HBOS  which was owned by Lloyds Banking Group  
compensated victims  of fraud committed at an HBOS  unit. There has been  no allegation of 
fraud here. The review  also outlines that the awards  for distress  and inconvenience were 
very generous when  compared to comparable  awards made by the courts.
In any event, under the rules of our service, Im required to reach a decision thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and award  compensation accordingly.
Ultimately, I think  the main inconvenience to F here was to move its banking  facilities 
elsewhere, and to secure other lending. But I think F made this decision because  it needed  
further financing,  which Lloyds had declined to provide, so it could operate its business the 
way it wanted  to. And because Lloyds had decided to reduce Fs overdraft.  So, I dont think  
Lloyds should  pay F compensation for the inconvenience of having to secure  additional 
lending from another  lender, and move  its banking facilities elsewhere.
Ref: DRN928506611That said,  I do think Lloyds actions caused F some inconvenience  that it should  be 
compensated for. This occurred when it started reducing the overdraft in September  2017  
instead of giving F some  additional time. If F had been given  some  additional time, it may not 
have needed to borrow funds from Mr Fs family to reduce the overdraft balance.
Lloyds also caused  F some inconvenience when it broke the loans too early, and when it 
continued the overdraft limit reduction  in excess of what it shouldve  reasonably  done.
Overall, I think an award of £1,000 fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. When reaching this amount,  Ive thought  about  the inconvenience  of the specific  
events, as well as the length of time when  things didnt go as they shouldve done.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold Fs complaint in part. And I intend  to direct 
Lloyds Bank  Plc to do the following.
To put things right, I think Lloyds  Bank  Plc should calculate the position Fs current account  
and fixed rate loans  wouldve been in, with the following criteria. It should also send an 
indicative calculation in response to my provisional  decision.
A.The overdraft limit remained  at £115,000  at the end of September 2017, and only 
reduced to £95,000 at the end of October  2017.  Lloyds  should refund any interest 
paid at unarranged overdraft rate during this time,  and refund any fees and charges 
applied because of this.
B.The loans werent redeemed in December 2017, and the existing overdraft limit of 
£95,000 continued until 3 January 2018. This was then reduced to £55,000 on 
3 January 2018, and to £35,000  on 31 January 2018. Lloyds can take into account 
that: 
a.F wouldve  continued  to make monthly payments on the fixed rate loans in 
December 2017 and January 2018,  and interest wouldve continued to 
accrue.
b.Normal overdraft interest  wouldve  continued  to accrue.
C.The loans were  redeemed in February  2018,  and the breakage fees were  calculated 
and applied  on the loan repayment  date in February  2018. If breaking the loans in 
February 2018 wouldve involved lower break costs  than those actually charged,  then 
Lloyds should  include in its calculation the difference between  the original costs  and 
those that would have been  charged in February 2018  Lloyds should  refund the 
difference.
D.Once Lloyds  has calculated the position  F wouldve  been  on the loan repayment date 
in February 2018, it should compare this to the position it actually was after F repaid 
all of its borrowing. And if theres a balance  due to F after its done  that, Lloyds 
should add 8% simple  interest  on the payment from the loan repayment  date in 
February 2018 until the date of settlement.
E.Pay F a further £1,000 for the inconvenience  caused to F, in addition  to the £300 
already paid.
Ref: DRN928506612Lloyds agreed  to pay compensation in line with my provisional decision.  Mr F, on behalf of F, 
responded with detailed  comments  explaining  why he disagreed with my findings. He also 
sent some  call recordings that hadnt  been  provided before. Ive listened to the recordings, 
and Ive considered  everything Mr F has said in response to my provisional  decision, along 
with everything that had already been  provided earlier.
Ive summarised the key issues  Mr F raised in response to my provisional decision below:
With regards to providing contemporaneous evidence,  F doesnt  have the same  
resources as Lloyds,  and Lloyds failed to comply with Mr Fs Subject Access 
Request;
Lloyds never explained  the reasons why the loan application was declined,  and its 
concerns about Fs financial situation  werent accurate;
Mr F doesnt  consider  the review by a member from Lloyds approved  panel  of 
accountancy/insolvency firms to be truly independent, or that F was given a real 
choice here;
I havent made a finding about whether Lloyds actions were reasonable, taking into 
account the concerns over the financial review, and the independence of it;
The decision to consider an alternative bank  wasnt solely due to Lloyds asking F to 
repay the overdraft   Mr F says Lloyds actions made it clear that it wouldnt support 
F;
I shouldve placed more weight on the calls Mr F had with Lloyds, when Lloyds broke  
the loans, considering  the severity of their content;
The financial loss from the costs of the short term financing were a direct and 
consequential loss resulting from Lloyds  decision to reduce Fs overdraft limit; and
The amount  of compensation Ive suggested for the impact Lloyds actions have had 
on F isnt enough.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, and my role is to reach a decision that I think  is 
fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. I appreciate that I havent commented on 
every point Mr F has raised throughout the course  of the complaint, and I wont be 
commenting on every point hes raised in response to my provisional decision.  But I have 
considered everything  hes said. 
Where Mr F says that what  Ive said in my provisional decision isnt accurate, Ive only 
commented on those  points where  I think  further  consideration or explanation is needed. But 
where, for example, the alleged inaccuracy is due to an impression thats created, Ive only 
focused on considering whether or not what Ive said is factually correct, rather than what  
impression may (or may not) be created.
Where I havent specifically commented on the points Mr F has raised, its because I dont 
think they have  a material impact on the outcome of the complaint.
Ref: DRN928506613The evidence
Firstly, I havent  considered Mr Fs concern that Lloyds  failed to comply with the Subject 
Access Request, as thats a complaint for the Information Commissioners  Office. But I have 
seen some of the emails  Mr F has referred  to in his submissions, so I dont think this issue 
has had a material impact  on this complaint.
This is because Mr F was a party to the contemporaneous emails, so these arent  something  
he hasnt seen before.  And I explained in my provisional decision the key issues  where I 
placed more evidence on the contemporaneous evidence, and what impact this had on my 
findings. So, Mr F has had the opportunity to comment on those findings.
Loan application and Fs financial position before the financial review
Lloyds internal notes suggest that it explained  to Mr F the reasons why Fs loan application 
was declined, but Mr F says it didnt.  If everything  had been  done as it ought to have been 
here, Lloyds  shouldve given Mr F an explanation. However, the evidence  Ive seen on this 
point is inconclusive. But I dont  think this has a material impact on the outcome of the 
complaint. This is because the compensation Lloyds has already paid, together  with the 
additional compensation Ive recommended  be paid,  already covers  any additional 
inconvenience this may have  caused F.
Considering what  Mr F has said, theres  one paragraph of my provisional decision that Id 
like to clarify. I said: After  further lending was declined, Lloyds introduced F to a new 
relationship manager who provided  business support as it had concerns about  Fs situation.  
This was  amongst other things  because Fs current  account was in excess of the agreed  
overdraft limit, and there were overdue creditors chasing for payment, while  other payments 
were due, such as wages. Lloyds also said payments had been returned unpaid  for some 
time, by that point.
Ive had another look at the timeline of events, and it looks like the fundamental reason for 
Lloyds introducing a new relationship manager  to F was actually the excess position on the 
account. The other reasons were concerns listed by that relationship  manager  after a 
meeting with Mr F. And it was specifically as a result of F being unable  to pay its creditors  
when payments were  due that Lloyds wanted Mr F to meet  with one of the members from its 
approved panel of accountancy/insolvency  firms.
Mr F has said that its not correct to say that there  were overdue creditors  chasing for 
payment. This was the expression used by Lloyds based on what  it said Mr F had told 
Lloyds. Based on everything  Ive seen, it looks like there were  payments due to creditors  
while F was in excess of its overdraft. I dont  know if these creditors were formally chasing F 
for payment, but I dont  think  this has a material impact on my findings, considering the 
overall financial situation F was in at the time.
Mr F also said that its not correct to say that payments had been returned unpaid  for some 
time. Ive had a look at the statements,  and it looks like some payments had been returned  
for about a month at the point when Lloyds met with Mr F.
Overall, these points dont change my findings.
Ref: DRN928506614Financial review
Its not my role to make a finding on whether  a financial review  and recommendation made 
by the accountancy firm was accurate. However,  having looked at the review,  I dont think  
Lloyds acted unreasonably in taking  action based  on information included  in it.
Mr F has said he gave  Lloyds  evidence  at the time which showed the review wasnt 
accurate. He hasnt  been able to provide this contemporaneous evidence, but Mr F has 
given us a letter from Fs accountancy firm on the topic. And I considered this when I 
reached my provisional decision, along with everything Mr F has said about the review.
It would appear to me that the key difference here is how the financial information given by F 
should be interpreted, and what should be taken into account. Fs accountancy firm only 
referred to a short term cash flow issue, whereas Lloyds panel  accountancy  firm raised 
several concerns  about Fs financial situation. 
I know Mr F has strong concerns  over the independence of the report. And I accept that Mr F 
felt that F had no other option  than to go ahead with the report  as Lloyds said it was likely 
this was needed for continued support from the bank. But F did have options here  to start 
seeking alternative support elsewhere, or go ahead with the report to seek  further support 
from Lloyds.
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest  that Lloyds acted unreasonably in relying on the 
review and recommendation it was given. And for the reasons Ive explained  in my 
provisional decision, I dont think Lloyds needs to refund the costs  of the report.
Reducing Fs overdraft limit
I appreciate Mr F feels that the costs of the short term financing F took out were a direct  and 
consequential loss as a result of Lloyds actions. He says that Lloyds effectively removed 
over £100,000 of facilities, which were  ear marked for working capital and growth.  
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  I dont think Lloyds did anything  wrong  by 
deciding to start reducing the overdraft limit  I just dont think  it shouldve started the 
reductions in September 2017.  So, even  if Lloyds had started  the reductions in October  2017 
instead, I think F wouldve still had to take out other financing to continue operating as Mr F 
wanted it to. So, I see no reason  to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision on this issue.
Breaking the loans 
I know how strongly Mr F feels  about the calls with Lloyds when the loans were broken. And 
I have listened  to them and considered the content.  But where something has gone wrong,  
my role is to tell a business to put that right. My role isnt to punish or penalise  a business. I 
have already said I dont think Lloyds was right to break the loans as it did, and Ive 
explained what it needs to do to put this right. So, I wont  be making any additional findings 
on this issue.
Ref: DRN928506615Mr F says that the decision  about  when to repay the loans was always Fs decision to make, 
but Lloyds broke the loans before F could  make that decision. Mr F says that in rejecting the 
reduced offer, F demonstrated  that it was considering its options, and Lloyds actions 
prevented F from having the option  to only repay the overdraft, and not the loans. Mr F also 
says that I ignored  what the terms and conditions said about  the breakage fees. 
But overall, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision,  I still think  it was Fs 
intention to break the loans once the further  funding came through, even if Lloyds  hadnt  
already done so. And because of this, I dont think Lloyds should refund all of the breakage 
fees  but it should recalculate  them in line with my provisional decision.
The overall impact Lloyds actions had on F
Mr F has explained  in more detail the challenging personal circumstances he faced during 
this time, and especially in December 2017 and January 2018. Mr F still thinks I should 
consider compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to the directors of F. He 
also remains of the opinion that the redress methodology for redress  for distress  and 
inconvenience in the Cranston Review is relevant to this complaint.
As I already acknowledged in my provisional decision, its clear  that this was a very difficult  
time for Mr F and his family. But as I explained, in this complaint I can only award  
compensation to F, as its the legal entity bringing the complaint.
Ive considered the inconvenience caused  to F, and taking everything into account, I think 
the amount Ive suggested in my provisional  decision  is fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I see no reason to depart  from the findings I reached  in my 
provisional decision, or the redress I proposed. I have, however, slightly amend the wording 
of the redress to clarify the method as to how Lloyds should calculate  the final amount due to 
F. This has been shared  with Lloyds and F, and theyve  been given an opportunity to 
comment prior to this final decision being issued  and I considered the responses when 
reaching my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Fs complaint 
in part. To put things  right, Lloyds  Bank  Plc should  calculate the position  Fs current  account 
and fixed rate loans  wouldve been in, with the criteria set out in A, B and C below.  
Any refund due from A and B should be applied on the calculation  on the day of the charge  
to reflect  the position the account wouldve been in. Any refund due from C should be 
applied in the calculation to reflect the position the account wouldve been in had the loans 
been redeemed  in February 2018. 
Lloyds Bank  Plc should then pay F the amount it arrives at in D, as this will include  any 
refunds from A, B and C. It should  also pay F the amount set out in E.
A.The overdraft limit remained  at £115,000  at the end of September 2017, and only 
reduced to £95,000 at the end of October  2017.  Lloyds  should refund any interest 
paid at unarranged overdraft rate during this time,  and refund any fees and charges 
applied because of this.
Ref: DRN928506616B.The loans werent redeemed in December 2017, and the existing overdraft limit of 
£95,000 continued until 3 January 2018. This was then reduced to £55,000 on 
3 January 2018, and to £35,000  on 31 January 2018. Lloyds can take into account 
that: 
a.F wouldve  continued  to make monthly payments on the fixed rate loans in 
December 2017 and January 2018,  and interest wouldve continued to 
accrue.
b.Normal overdraft interest  wouldve  continued  to accrue.
c.If Lloyds charged any fees because of the overdraft limit reducing earlier  than 
when Ive outlined  above, these should be refunded. 
C.The loans were  redeemed in February  2018,  and the breakage fees were  calculated 
and applied  on the loan repayment  date in February  2018. If breaking the loans in 
February 2018 wouldve involved lower break costs  than those actually charged,  then 
Lloyds should  include in its calculation the difference between  the original costs  and 
those that would have been  charged in February 2018  Lloyds should  refund the 
difference.
D.Once Lloyds  has calculated the position  F wouldve  been  on the loan repayment date 
in February 2018, it should compare this to the position it actually was after F repaid 
all of its borrowing. And if theres a balance  due to F after its done  that, Lloyds 
should pay F that balance. Lloyds should also add 8% simple interest on the credit 
balance from the loan repayment  date in February 2018 until the date of settlement.
E.Pay F a further £1,000 for the inconvenience  caused to F, in addition  to the £300 
already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 November  2020.
Renja Anderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285066