K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained about London General Insurance Company  Limiteds  refusal to pay 
her claim under  her unemployment insurance  policy.
background
Mrs P held an unemployment insurance policy  which  was underwritten by London General. 
The policy was sold and administered  by a separate company  which  Ill call Z. The policy 
would pay a monthly benefit,  for up to twelve months, in the event that Mrs P became 
involuntarily unemployed.
In January 2018, Z wrote to Mrs P to explain that London General was withdrawing  the 
policy. It explained that cover would end on 31 March  2018 but that if a successful claim  had 
started on or before this date, then benefit would  be paid beyond  this date. It further 
explained that it had made arrangements for cover  to continue to be provided through  
another policy underwritten by a company which Ill call A. 
In February 2018,  Mrs P learned  that she would shortly be made redundant. In March  2018, 
she contacted  London General to make  a claim.  She explained that last day of employment 
would be 31 March 2018.
London General  said that because her claim wouldnt therefore start until 1 April 2018,  she 
should make  a claim to the new insurer, A. However, A said that because  Mrs P had known 
of her redundancy before the policy started, it wouldnt accept her claim. It advised  her to go 
back to Royal London. Shortly  after, in May 2018, A when into administration.
Mrs P felt that she was being treated unfairly. She complained to London General.
London General  maintained it had acted  in accordance with the policy terms. However it 
acknowledged that Mrs P had been unable to pursue her claim with A and so paid two 
months benefit of £1,600 as a gesture  of goodwill. Mrs P was still unhappy and so referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint against London General should be upheld.  
Given that Mrs P knew of the impending  claim  before the policy had terminated,  and she 
was unable to make a successful claim with A, the investigator thought it was fair that 
London General  should  extend the cover for the period  of the claim and pay this even 
though it began on the day after the policy had terminated. The investigator  said that London 
General could deduct the goodwill amount it had already paid to Mrs P and that it could also 
deduct the value of the premiums which Mrs P would  have  had to pay for the continuation of 
the policy calculated  at the same  rate shed paid before the termination.  The investigator 
further said that London General should pay Mrs P £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  suffered as a result of its refusal to accept the claim.
Mrs P said that the compensation didnt  adequately  reflect  the distress which shed been 
caused. She said the non-payment of her claim had placed her in financial difficulties  and 
this had caused her a great deal of stress.
London General  didnt  accept the investigators  findings. It said it had acted in accordance  
with the policy terms and it had no liability for Mrs Ps claim.  It thought  she should take the 
matter up with either A or Z.
Ref: DRN90617182In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
Mrs P suffered  very unfortunate timing in relation  to her redundancy. She learned of it while  
still under  cover by London General but her unemployment  didnt  start until the day after it 
had ended her policy.  No new insurer would pay a claim  which was already known about 
before the policy began. Therefore, through no fault of her own, Mrs P was left in the position 
that she could  obtain no benefit on becoming unemployed, despite the fact that shed held 
cover with London General for several  years until the day before. I think,  in those 
circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for Mrs P to expect London  General to accept and 
pay her claim, regardless of the strict policy terms.
London General  thinks  that A should  pay the claim. However, leaving aside the issue  that it 
has gone into administration,  I have seen no evidence that A entered  into an agreement with 
either London General or Z so that, contrary to its policy terms, it was liable for any claims 
which were known about before it took over London Generals former customers.
I have considered whether Z should  be held responsible but I cant  see that it has 
necessarily done  anything wrong. I think it more appropriate for London General, which  has 
been collecting premiums  from Mrs P for several  years, to be the party which steps  in on a 
fair and reasonable basis to ensure she is not disadvantaged by its decision to withdraw  
from the market
I furthermore agree  with the investigator  that London General should have assumed 
responsibility in this way at an earlier  stage  and that its failure to do so has caused Mrs P 
some distress for which it should pay her compensation.  While  I recognise Mrs P thinks  
£150 is inadequate for the trouble shes been  caused, I am satisfied it is a fair amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require London  General  Insurance Company  Limited to accept Mrs Ps claim and to pay 
benefit as if the policy  was still in operation. It should  add interest to any outstanding benefit 
payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date the benefit payment was 
due until the date of settlement.* London General  may deduct  the amount  it has already paid 
as a goodwill  gesture and the amount which Mrs P would have paid in premiums for the 
continuation of her policy  (based on the amount  she was paying before the policys 
termination).
I further require  London  General to pay Mrs P £150  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 Septmeber 2019.
David Poley
Ref: DRN90617183ombudsman
* If London General considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9061718