K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mrs R 
between July 2016 and May 2018.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Rs complaint and thought  that she shouldnt have been 
provided with loans five and six. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs R, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs R was unlikely to have been  able to make her payments  in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided loans  5 and 6. 
I say this because  by this stage  Mrs R had a history of taking out further loans not too long 
after repaying previous  ones.  And some of them were even provided when Mrs R already 
had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Im not persuaded that the loan repayments 
Ref: DRN92309312being less than a certain  percentage of Mrs Rs income or the period between  loan five 
being repaid and loan six being taken means that these  loans were sustainable.
Mrs R had to pay interest  and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs R paid on loans five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loans  five and six should be removed from  Mrs  Rs 
credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mrs R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9230931