K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Ageas Insurance Limited wont cover his home insurance claim for 
accidental damage.  He further believes that it didnt make reasonable adjustments  for him.
background
In August  2018  Mr M made  a claim to Ageas following part of his glass shower cubicle 
shattering. He wasnt in the bathroom  at the time and couldnt explain why the glass had 
shattered. Ageas advised that the policy  definition  of accidental damage was Unexpected  
and unintended  damage caused  by something  sudden and external.  And that the damage 
to the shower  door didnt come  within  that definition. Mr M complained  that he was treated 
unfairly as he is registered blind so wasnt able to read the terms and conditions  of his policy.  
He thought that Ageas should have offered an audio service to him, and read out all the 
terms and conditions of the policy. He felt that as he wasnt responsible  for the door 
shattering, it should  be covered.
Ageas said it didnt offer an audio service  and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect the entire  
policy to be read out. Mr M bought his policy through a charity and it was aware from the 
renewal in 2015 of Mr Ms sight problems  and had advised at the time it couldnt provide an 
audio service. It offered  large print documents, which Mr M accepted. It also offered braille 
documents but Mr M didnt want that.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that Ageas should repair the damage to the 
shower as he believed the glass could  only have shattered from an external force.  He 
thought it was impractical to expect Ageas to read out the policy over the telephone but that 
it would  be reasonable for Ageas to consider offering an audio service.
I issued a provisional; decision. I said that, given that it was for Mr M to show  he had a claim, 
he hadnt shown  that the damage to the shower door had been caused by something 
external. I also said I thought that Ageas had made reasonable adjustments for Mr M based 
on what he had told it about his needs.
Ageas hasnt commented on my decision. Mr M still thought his claim should  be covered 
under the buildings  section of his policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
accidental damage
Based on the policy terms, I dont  think that Mr M has shown that there  was accidental 
damage to his shower cubicle. That definition is (my emphasis) Unexpected  and 
unintended damage caused by something sudden and external.
I can accept that the damage was unexpected, and unintentional. But generally  it is for the 
policyholder to show that they have a claim.  I havent seen any evidence that the damage 
was caused by something external like something  falling on it or against it. It is possible 
Ref: DRN93029812that the glass was faulty in some way, so it doesnt follow, in my view,  that something 
external must have  been applied to the glass to cause it to break. The policy definition isnt 
unusual and such a definition is commonly used in such policies to set out what accidental 
damage is. And we dont  regard these terms to be unfair. Therefore as I think  Ageas  
declining of the claim was fair and reasonable Im not going  to make it accept the claim.
failure to make reasonable adjustments
I must set out first of all that it isnt my function  to make rulings under the Equality Act. 
Although I can take account of it in deciding  whether  Ageas acted fairly and reasonably.. 
Here Mr M argues  that he wasnt able to access the policy terms and conditions because 
Ageas (or the charity  through  whom he applied for the policy) doesnt offer an audio  service. 
My understanding is that Ageas wasnt aware  of Mr Ms needs until the policy  renewal in 
2015. At that stage it told him it couldnt offer him an audio  service, but agreed with him that 
the documents would  be sent in large  print.
So it appears that at the time Ageas became aware  of Mr Ms needs,  it agreed with him that 
documents would  be sent in large  print. And, it has pointed out that it has provision for a third 
party to be nominated to receive documents.
Bearing in mind that my function is to decide  this complaint and not to make general 
recommendations about Ageas, I dont  believe it's fair to criticise Ageas for not offering an 
audio service. Im aware that other insurers may offer such a service so it maybe something 
it may want  to consider  doing. But here, so far as it was aware it was making reasonable 
adjustments as agreed with Mr M. I dont  think it would be reasonable to expect it to read out 
a 54 page document to him. And even  if that had been possible I dont see how that could 
have helped him.
So I think Ageas  made reasonable adjustments for Mr M, based on what  he told it. 
Therefore, I dont think he was treated unfairly.
I understand that Mr M wants the damage  to be covered, especially as he wasnt  at fault in 
any way. But I have  to say again  that the damage can only come under the accidental  
damage section of the policy.  And, as Ive said the damage here simply doesnt,  in my view, 
come under the definition of accidental damage  in the policy.  I cant speculate what may 
have caused the damage,  but as there isnt any evidence that it was caused by something 
external, I cant uphold the complaint.  
Im satisfied by my provisional conclusions about the reasonable adjustments  made by 
Ageas to allow Mr M full access  to the policy documents.  My provisional findings  are now 
therefore final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9302981