K820x#14complaint
Mr P as executor of the estate of Mrs P has complained about  Mrs Ps whole  of life policy, 
provided and administered by Standard Life Assurance Limited. He has said when Mrs P 
took out the policy they were told the purchased units in the plan would be added to the sum 
assured to make up the death  benefit  when the policy needed  to be claimed upon. However, 
upon the passing of Mrs P, only the sum assured was received.
background
Mrs P took out the whole of life policy in October 1982.  Mr P has said the policy was taken to 
provide a lump  sum to their children.  The paperwork from the time of the sale is hard to read 
but it looks like the policy was taken in Mrs Ps sole name and that she was 34 years  of age 
at the time. Its hard to see what the initial sum assured was but when Mrs P passed away 
the death benefit paid was just under £30,000.  At the same time the unit value/fund value 
was just over £11,000.
Mr P has said that they were informed there were two parts  to the premium. One part paid 
for the life cover with a sum assured and the rest purchased units  in the Standard  Life 
Managed fund which would be added to the sum assured on the death  of the plan holder. 
He feels it would have  been clear to Standard  Life for many years  that the growth 
performance of the units meant there was no chance the value of the units  would exceed the 
sum assured. And they were never asked during the time the plan was in place of whether 
they wanted to cash  in the units and take out a different policy.  
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who didnt feel it could be upheld. 
He was of the view that there was evidence  to confirm Standard Life didnt sell the policy  and 
so therefore couldnt be held responsible for any information Mrs P would have  been  given 
verbally about the policy in 1982. He was also satisfied that the policy documents Mrs P was 
provided with when she took out the policy  made it clear what the death payment would 
have been made up of.
Mr P didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view it had been mis-sold. He 
wasnt convinced that Standard Life didnt  sell the policy and stated the independent  
financial adviser (IFA) the investigator  had referred to only made an introduction and 
Standard Life recommended and sold the policy. He also commented  that this type of plan 
should have been carefully explained to them every  five to ten years throughout its life.
The investigator considered Mr Ps comments but wasnt persuaded to change  his initial 
outcome. So as no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Mr P has said Mrs P was told certain information  at the time of the sale about  the policy and 
this informed their understanding of it. Hes also said that given the policy didnt  work  the 
way he had understood the policy has been mis-sold.
Ref: DRN92801742I appreciate Mr Ps concerns over the policy and the information he says he was given at the 
time of the sale but these concerns surround how the policy was sold. Therefore  I need  to be 
satisfied that Standard  Life was responsible  for selling the policy  to Mrs P otherwise to hold it 
responsible for something it didnt do or had any control over would be incorrect  and wholly  
unfair.
I have seen the proposal of advice  form which indicates an IFA was responsible for the 
sale of this policy to Mrs P rather than Standard Life. Standard  Life also confirms  this was 
the case and that the IFA had no connection to Standard Life. I know Mr P says he has no 
recollection of Mrs P meeting the IFA and he is sure the IFA just introduced them  to 
Standard Life but I have  to base my decision on the evidence  provided. And from what I 
have in from of me I dont  think Standard  Life did sell the policy  to Mrs P.
I therefore cant hold Standard Life responsible for the sale and so cant look into Mr Ps 
complaint points about this.
All I can look at against Standard Life is whether the policy  was administered correctly  and 
whether the policy  documents sufficiently  explained  how the policy  worked.
The policy provisions state  that upon  receipt  of satisfactory proof of death  the units allocated 
to the policy  at the date of death shall be cancelled and there shall be a payable  sum equal 
to the greater of (a) the value of the said units and (b) the amount of the sum assured at the 
date of death.
I can appreciate that this isnt wholly clear but its certainly doesnt say that the unit value 
would be added to the sum assured to make the death payment.
I know Mr P has said it wasnt clear  even though he acknowledged  the document contained 
this explanation. But its worth noting  that the sale of this policy took place before the 
Financial Services Act came into being.  This Act set a standard for certain activities  within  
the financial industry and one of those was the level of detail  provided  to a customer  about 
their financial  products. So while I accept the description of the death  claim payment wasnt  
as clear as it could have  been, because of the regulation, or lack thereof, at the time I cant  
hold Standard Life responsible for this lack of clarity. I am satisfied the details contained in 
the products literature  were as clear as they had to be at that point in time. 
It should also be pointed  out that there  is nothing in the paperwork provided  by Standard Life 
that states the units would  be added to the sum assured to make  the death  payment. And 
Ive also seen that annual statements were sent to Mrs P and these accurately confirmed   
what would  be payable  upon a death claim.  Is therefore difficult  for me  conclude that Mr or 
Mrs P thought the payment  under  the policy would be anything other than what was stated.
Overall, because Standard Life didnt sell the policy to Mrs P I cant look into how the policy 
was sold or what was said to Mrs P during this sales process.  
In relation to what I can look into against Standard  Life, I think the way the death payment 
would be made  was set out in the policy provisions which Mrs P would have been given 
when she took out the policy. And there is no evidence confirming they were told the unit 
value would be added to the sum assured upon  payment  of a death claim.
Ref: DRN92801743my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr P on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs P to accept  or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9280174