K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about Santander  UK Plc re-setting his security passcode  and some 
associated customer service issues.
background
In April 2018, Mr F called  Santander to amend  a payment mandate.  He was asked for 
certain digits from his security passcode. He duly gave them but did not pass security  and 
any further attempts  were blocked. Mr F didnt think that could be right as he believed a) he 
had provided the correct  numbers and b) he should have up to three  attempts. So Mr F 
spoke to a manager at the bank.
Mr F thought the problem  may have something to do with an issue hed had the year before, 
when there  was an issue with his passcode. The manager thought it may have been related 
- he thought the passcode should  have been  reset then and, if it had, Mr F would have had 
three attempts in 2018. The manager thought it was a system  fault with Santander.
The manager arranged  for the new mandate  the original purpose of Mr Fs call  and 
arranged for a new passcode to be sent out to Mr F.
Mr F wasnt happy and really wanted  to know whether it was Mr F providing  the wrong 
information or whether it was Santander  staff inputting it wrongly. Mr F also felt 
inconvenienced by having a new passcode.  So he complained. He had to follow up his 
complaint for a progress report on 30 April. He was on the phone  for about half an hour.
Mr F felt he did not get a satisfactory response  and he brought  his complaint to this Service. 
Mr F wanted the call recordings from 2018 so it could be proved and analysed whose fault it 
was.
This Service contacted  Santander. They said they did not have a record  of Mr Fs complaint, 
but could see from their records he had called;  albeit they could not trace  the calls to listen  
to the recordings. They  acknowledged the situation with the passcode  was odd and did not 
appear to be something that Mr F had done.  They thought it was a technical issue  with them.  
They arranged to pay £25 to Mr F and hoped that would resolve the complaint.
The investigator looking into matters  also tried to obtain further information, but Santander 
could not provide more than they had. They were sorry  they could not find the calls because  
their systems did not retain them but, in acknowledgement of poor customer service,  they 
offered a further  £75  making a total of £100. 
The investigator thought that was fair and reasonable.  And Mr F accepted  that resolution.
Thereafter, though,  Mr F chased  Santander for the payment and then complained at the 
response he had from them.
The investigator looked at that too but felt that Santander had not been unreasonable;  they 
were entitled  to have  some time to make the payment and he confirmed they had done so.
It was following that Mr F wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Ref: DRN98941172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint now is one of assessing  and deciding  the remedy.
It is clear to me that Santander  could not and cannot provide any more information about  the 
precise nature of the failure  of the passcode.  But they said from start that they thought  it was 
a problem with their own technical systems and offered some compensation accordingly.
It is also clear  that Santander  recognised that it would  have  been  better  had Mr F not 
needed to call back on the 30 April to see how the investigation was progressing. He had 
been left wondering whether it was him or the system and would have obtained  some  peace 
of mind knowing which it was. 
Overall, therefore, Santander  offered compensation totalling £100. The investigator  agreed 
that was fair and reasonable. And Mr F agreed.
I agree  too. Santander rightly recognised that their customer service could have been better. 
Mr F was inconvenienced and £100  fairly  reflects the level of that. As I say, it was clear that 
it was not possible  to obtain the ultimate answers Mr F wanted.  But the compensation was in 
acknowledgment of that too.
It is part of the process of bringing a complaint to this Service  that both parties have 
opportunity to think about the settlement the investigator  proposes, for example to accept  it 
or reject it or ask an ombudsman to review  it.
It is also part of the process that if a settlement is reached,  then parties  usual the business 
 has time to comply  with the settlement. Put frankly that is a matter of practical  logistics. As 
in this case, to actually  effect the payment  agreed  upon.
The relevant  timeline  here was:
9 May   Investigator  sent his assessment;
9 May   Mr F accepted proposed settlement by email;
10 May  Investigator acknowledged same;
14 May  Mr F enquired when he would know Santanders decision;
14 May  Investigator informed Mr F that Santander had until 16 May (this was the 
same as Mr F had had until);
17 May  Investigator informed Santander they were to follow  his assessment;
17 May  Investigator wrote to Mr F to inform him the payment would be made  and 
asked that if Santander  had not done  so in 8 weeks then Mr F was to get back  in 
touch with the Investigator.
Then:
24 May  Mr F chased Santander  for the payment;
29 May  Payment made;
30 May  Letter sent to Mr F by Santander  confirming same. Mr F said he did not get 
that letter. 
Within this time, Mr F contacted the investigator again to chase  the payment. He then 
complained about the call on 24 May. He did not like that he had been on the phone  for 45 
Ref: DRN98941173minutes and did not like being  passed  to different members of staff who could  not answer his 
specific questions.  He wanted, for example, for them  to check his balance  he thought they 
should have offered to do so before he suggested it. The problem was that if they did they 
could not give him the categorical  answer that it was for the resolution. They told him they 
were not the staff with conduct of the complaint or its resolution. He called them  again in July 
to complain about the call in May.
He wanted additional compensation for this.
This was not a new complaint, however, and in reality this can be characterised as a 
complaint about  a complaint for which Mr F would like more money. 
But it is connected to the substantive matter and when looked at as a whole  Im satisfied that 
the substantive complaint has been resolved  fairly. £100 was the fair and reasonable 
amount to be paid.  8 weeks  was a fair and reasonable  amount of time to be given. I note that 
Santander in fact paid the compensation (the balance of £75; £25 having already  been paid) 
in less than 2 weeks.
Im sorry  that Mr F felt it was necessary  to chase up the payment. But he did so prematurely 
and it was not necessary.
Im also satisfied that Santander  sent the letter  following the payment, which  confirmed what  
it was for. As it happens, they were not obliged  to do that but they did so which  was fair. In 
any event, Mr F was able to check his own balance which would have confirmed  what he 
was expecting.
Upon review, therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is in line with the offer made 
and the Investigators assessment; that is Santander  should pay £100  in compensation.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint  I would  have required Santander UK Plc to pay Mr F £100. 
I note, here, though  that the payment has, in fact, already been  made,  therefore, I do not 
require them to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9894117