K820x#14complaint
Mr Zs complaint against Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays) is that it caused  him a financial 
loss in how it dealt  with a loan and transfer  of funds.  
background
In March 2019 Mr Z used  his Barclays phone app to apply for a personal  loan of £37,000. 
He was abroad at the time.  The loan was granted, and the following day he tried to transfer 
the funds to another account.  He needed the money  to pay for land abroad that hed bought, 
for which hed paid a deposit. 
But the transfer didnt go through. This was because it flagged on Barclays  security  
systems, and was held back until further checks were carried out. 
Mr Z asked  Barclays what was happening, and was advised that he needed to come back to 
the UK and visit a branch  with identification,  before the money could be released.  He did 
this, but ultimately  the loan was cancelled  as Barclays had ascertained the money was to be 
used for business  purposes, which was contrary to the terms and conditions of the personal  
loan hed applied  for. 
Mr Z complained to Barclays, saying hed sustained a loss of £5,000 for the land deposit, as 
well as £220 on flights back  to the UK to visit a branch.  He wanted to be reimbursed, and for 
his credit file to be cleared.
Barclays responded saying that it didnt accept it was responsible for the loss of deposit, as 
the loan ultimately  wasnt granted  due to Mr Zs own breach of its terms. It also said that it 
hadnt made a mistake  in delaying the transfer of funds for further checks, on the basis that 
the IP address from which the loan was applied for was UK-based,  whereas Mr Z himself  
said he was abroad  when he made  the application.  And that ultimately  it had to follow  these 
security procedures to protect itself and its customers.
However, if did accept that the delay in resolving  matters had been too long and arduous; 
that Mr Z had been inconvenienced; and that its customer service could have been  better. 
To that extent it offered  £400  comprising £220  for the flights  hed had to buy, and the rest 
as compensation  for his time and inconvenience.  It also confirmed that it hadnt  registered 
anything regarding the loan with credit  reference  agencies.
Mr Z didnt  accept the £400 offer. He didnt feel it was enough to make up for his losses.  So 
he brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Barclays had already done enough 
to resolve matters, and that the £400 offer was fair and sufficient to settle the complaint. So 
he didnt uphold it. 
Mr Z still disagreed. He said hed spent  over eight hours on the phone to Barclays  trying to 
sort things  out, and that this coupled  with the long delay in his account being blocked  had 
caused him a great deal of inconvenience. He was also frustrated and confused as to why 
his account had even been  blocked in the first place, and that this question remained 
unanswered. 
Ref: DRN92028222He also said he was no longer pre-approved for a personal loan of up to £50,000, and 
thought this was unfair. And on the matter of what the loan was to be used for, he said he 
didnt understand  Barclays  position  and that hed never been told the loan was ultimately  
refused because it was being used for business  purposes. He said he was simply buying  
some cheap  land as an investment, and that when hed applied hed simply ticked the other  
box on the application where  it asked  what the funds would be used for, as it seemed the 
most appropriate one to choose.
Mr Z still believed the £400 wasnt enough to reflect Barclays  service and his poor 
experience, so he asked for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand some of Mr Zs frustration at what happened,  and how Barclays has 
made its decisions and communicated with him, ultimately I agree with our Investigator that 
the £400 its already offered as compensation is enough.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr Z. Ive noted carefully what hes said about how he 
didnt try to deceive Barclays as to the purpose  of the loan, and that it was fortunate  that 
while he was abroad he had access to another account for funds. 
My role is to decide whether Barclays made a mistake or treated Mr Z unfairly. And I if I think  
it did, then what I think it needs  to do to put things right.
I accept that Mr Z didnt seek to deceive Barclays as to the purpose of the loan when he 
applied for it. But that doesnt change the fact that a personal loan isnt allowed for the 
purchase of land, as per the relevant terms and conditions. Its unfortunate that the term 
business use has been used at all, as I think its only confused matters. Im satisfied that 
the reason the loan was cancelled  was because there was a prohibition on the money being 
used to buy land.  So thats why the loan didnt go through, and I think  thats acceptable.
I also dont think I can criticise Barclays for blocking Mr Zs account until it had gotten to the 
bottom of matters. Its internal security processes were triggered, I think  understandably  due 
to the large amount of money being transferred  abroad. Although  I do agree that the whole 
matter took too long to resolve; that Barclays could have been clearer  in what  it told Mr Z so 
he could understand properly what was happening and why; and that he had to spend a 
great deal of time on the phone trying  to sort things out. 
As our Investigators correctly advised,  compensation  is awarded on a case-by-case basis,  
looking at the impact of a businesss  mistake/poor  service on a customer.  In this case Ive no 
doubt Mr Z was inconvenienced and worried, but I think  some  of that was unavoidable  due 
to the circumstances, and I cant blame Barclays for it. I also note that while  his account was 
blocked, Mr Zs conceded that he did have access to funds from another  account.  And I think  
this is relevant in considering what a fair compensation  figure is.
On that basis, I think the £400 to include the flights  back to the UK is fair and sufficient,  and I 
wont be asking Barclays to increase this. 
Ref: DRN92028223Ive also noted  that theres been no detriment  to Mr Zs credit file, and also that theres 
nothing to indicate that specifically due to what happened with this loan that Mr Zs been 
made ineligible for another loan with Barclays. That will depend on the particular lending 
criteria, and Mr Zs own circumstances, at any given time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9202822