K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the distress and inconvenience caused when TSB Bank Plc blocked  
his account and when it was unable  to find documents  hed provided.  To settle matters hed 
like compensation.
background 
Mr H told us that in June 2018 he made a cash deposit of £1,400 into his account which he 
intended to use to make an investment. TSB blocked his account and access to the funds in 
July 2018 and asked him to provide proof  of entitlement to the funds hed deposited. Mr H 
provided bank  statements  from a relative  as proof  of entitlement in August  2018 and TSBs 
systems confirmed receipt.
As the account  remained blocked Mr H contacted TSB but found out it couldnt locate the 
proof of entitlement documents hed provided previously. TSB asked Mr H to provide these 
again.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service and TSB unblocked his account in 
November 2018.  It acknowledged that the service it provided to Mr H fell below the level it 
would expect and it agreed to pay £150 compensation.
Mr H is unhappy with the compensation offered by TSB. In summary:
he thinks TSB shouldnt have lost the documents he provided and this put him in the 
difficult position of having to ask his relative for the documents again  which were 
hard to obtain  in the first place.
he had to chase  TSB several times by phone as well as visits to branch.
due to the length of time the account  and funds  were blocked  by TSB  the investors 
started asking questions as to where the money  they invested  had gone and this 
added to his distress.
he also says he missed out on investment opportunities as a result  of not having 
access to his funds.
When our investigator looked  into things  he recommended  that Mr Hs complaint should  be 
upheld and that TSB should increase its compensation from £150 to £300.
Our investigator thought that although  there was potential for Mr H to suffer the 
inconvenience of having to ask his relative for bank statements again, he hadnt seen any 
evidence that hed done so.
The investigator noted that Mr H hadnt  provided any evidence  to support that the funds 
were part of a potential investment so he couldnt  fairly conclude  that Mr H had lost out on 
profits or gains  as a result.
Our investigator noted that Mr Hs account  was blocked and he was without access  to his 
funds - for some time. TSB hadnt been able to find the proof  of entitlement documents  hed 
provided and it hadnt  been  able to offer a reasonable explanation of what had happened to 
them. Our investigator thought this would have  been distressing for Mr H because he told 
our service  that the funds had been given to him by family members  whod  entrusted him to 
invest the money for them and due to the delay theyd become worried  and asked questions 
about what hed done with the money.
Ref: DRN96802782Mr H doesnt agree with the investigators  view.  He says TSB didnt notify him when it 
unblocked the account and hes now missed out on further investments as a result.  Hed 
therefore like £1,400 compensation - being the amount of the funds he wasnt able to 
access.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out TSB blocked  Mr Hs account  because anti-money laundering 
regulations place extensive obligations  on regulated financial  businesses to have  suitable  
systems in place for customer identification and to identify the origin of funds. TSB accepts it 
provided poor service  to Mr H so in these circumstances my role is decide if the £300 
compensation recommended by our investigator  is enough to put things right taking  into 
account the impact  the mistake has had on him.
When TSB blocked his account it asked him to provide proof of entitlement to the funds in 
early July 2018. TSBs notes show Mr H didnt provide this until towards the end of August 
2018. So I cant fairly say TSB was responsible for all the delay. That said,  I can understand 
Mr Hs frustration that once hed provided  proof of entitlement to the funds his account 
remained still remained blocked  because TSB wasnt able to find the bank statements hed 
previously provided.
TSB asked  Mr H to provide proof  of entitlement to the funds again but although  Mr H was 
worried about asking  his relative to provide this again Im not aware that he did so.
Mr H told us he wanted to use the funds he deposited for a potential investment so hed like 
TSB to reimburse his loss of profits. Im afraid  I dont agree because  Mr H hasnt provided  
any evidence in support of his intended investment. And in any event  I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask TSB to compensate for Mr Hs loss of profits because   with the type of 
investment Mr H wanted to make   there was no guarantee  that it would have resulted in a 
profit. And for the same reason although  there was a delay while  TSB unblocked the account 
I dont agree that TSB should be responsible  for him missing out on the opportunity of 
making further investments.
Mr Hs account wasnt unblocked until mid November 2018 so I dont doubt  this has caused  
stress, frustration and embarrassment with his family given what hes told us. However, Mr H 
told us that this wasnt his main  bank account  and his salary was paid in elsewhere so he 
was still able to manage  his financial  affairs and this minimised the impact  TSBs mistake 
had on him.
For the reasons  Ive explained above I think the compensation  of £300 recommended  by our 
investigator is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
I realise Mr H is likely to be disappointed  by this but it brings to an end what we, as an 
informal dispute resolution service, can do to help resolve his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct TSB Bank Plc to pay to 
Ref: DRN96802783Mr H £300 - to the extent  not already paid - for the distress and inconvenience  caused as a 
result of TSB Bank Plcs poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9680278