K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that BUPA Insurance Limited  hasnt met a claim that she made under 
her Cash  Plan.
background
Mrs L had both a private  medical insurance policy and a Cash Plan with BUPA through her 
employer. 
Mrs Ls daughter had treatment under the medical insurance policy. Subsequently Mrs L 
submitted a claim under her cash plan to re-coup the excess  of £200 that she had paid.
In accordance with the policy terms BUPA applied the excess to the claims in the order in 
which they were received.  The first bill was for the anaesthetist and a charge of £165 was 
applied towards  the excess. The second  bill received the same  day was from the hospital  
and the remaining £35 was applied to this. The consultants bill wasnt  received until some  
time later.
Anaesthetists fees arent covered by the cash plan which meant that Mrs L wasnt  able to 
recover the proportion  of the excess payment that had been applied  to this.
Mrs L (through her employer)  complained that this wasnt  fair. Our investigator felt that 
BUPA had applied  the policy terms fairly.  Mrs L didnt agree so the matter  has been  passed 
to me to determine.
my findings
Ive only included a brief summary but Ive considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Certainly I can see why Mrs L would feel that this was unfair; her daughter had day 
treatment and all the bills submitted under her medical insurance policy were part of the 
same claim. Although Mrs L has two policies, they work independently. Her medical  
insurance policy clearly says that invoices will be paid in the order  that they are received. I 
cant say that this is unfair; rather it seems to be logical. 
BUPA received  the invoice from the anaesthetist first and applied  the excess to that invoice. 
The remainder of the excess,  £35, was added to the hospital fee. The consultants invoice 
came in last and because the £200  excess had already been applied,  the full cost of 
consultant was covered under the private  medical  insurance policy  no excess  was charged  
on it. 
When Mrs L submitted a claim under the Cash  Plan,  she claimed for the hospital stay.  An 
excess payment wasnt made  to the consultant so she didnt tick the box for the consultants  
fee. The policy doesnt cover anaesthetists fees so this payment wasnt  recoverable.  In the 
circumstances Im satisfied that BUPA dealt with the claim correctly under the Cash  Plan.
I agree  that it is not in the consumers control as to which treating  specialist  submits  their bill 
first. But I couldnt reasonably ask BUPA to refund an excess that was paid to the 
anaesthetist when  thats not covered under  the Cash  Plan.  
Ref: DRN99104672I recognise that Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision but I cant  say that BUPA have 
treated Mrs L unfairly in applying the policy terms to her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9910467