K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that when he cashed  in his Index-Linked savings certificate, National 
Savings and Investments didnt inform him how much interest it would deduct from his 
investment. Hes also unhappy that it wouldnt  reverse his withdrawal and reinstate his 
certificate when he asked it to.
background
Mr M said he and his wife had an Index-Linked savings certificate with NS&I,  which  they 
started in June 2011 for five years. In June 2016 these certificates  renewed  for three years;  
so, they are due to mature in June 2019.
In April 2018 Mr M decided he wanted  to withdraw  money from his NS&I savings certificate. 
He said he wanted  to withdraw the full amount and close his account. But, while  he withdrew  
a large sum of money, he left a balance of £100  in his account.   
Mr M said when  he accessed his account  online he didnt see how much interest he would 
lose by cashing  in his certificate.  He said his wife then logged  in and tried to cash in hers. 
But Mr M said when Mrs M attempted to do so she was shown how much interest she would 
lose by cashing  it in. So she decided to abandon the transaction and log out instead.
Mr M said his wifes experience caused  him to realise how much money he would lose by 
cashing in his certificate. So, he contacted the NS&I helpline the following morning to ask it 
to cancel his transaction.  But he was told this wasnt possible. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this so he raised  a complaint with NS&I.  He said his wife had been  
presented with clear  information about the impact cashing in her certificate would  have on 
her investment. And he felt this information  shouldve been available to him. He complained  
that the lack of this information prevented him from making an informed decision. But, NS&I 
didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It said he had authorised the withdrawal in question  and it 
hadnt made an error.
Being dissatisfied with NS&Is response  Mr M referred  his complaint to our service. He told 
us that he wanted NS&I  to reverse the transaction he made and reinstate his investment to 
put him back  in the position he was in before he authorised the withdrawal. Our adjudicator 
looked into what had happened and didnt think NS&I had done anything  wrong  or needed  to 
do anything more here. They thought that it had acted fairly and reasonably.  But Mr M 
disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill explain why I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
The starting point  here is that NS&I should follow its customers requests, unless theres 
good reason not to. Here, Mr M gave online instructions to NS&I to withdraw a large sum of 
money from his certificate and it did that. While I understand that Mr M wanted to close his 
account he instructed  NS&I to withdraw  all but £100  of his investment. So, Im satisfied  that it 
correctly processed the payment using the information Mr M provided.
Ref: DRN95681812Mr M said that prior to making this withdrawal  he wasnt informed of the interest penalty that 
would be deducted  from his investment. He feels this prevented  him from making  an 
informed choice as to whether to continue with his transaction  or abandon it. And he thought 
this was unfair because  he said if he had been  made aware he wouldnt  have  gone  ahead 
with the encashment.
In thinking about whether NS&I acted  fairly  Ive considered  what  its said about  the 
information that wouldve been  available to Mr M before he authorised his withdrawal. NS&I 
has said that the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ms account state clearly  that where a 
customer makes  a partial withdrawal a penalty  payment equivalent to 90 days interest  on the 
amount would be applied. And they also explain that no index-linking would be earned for 
the investment  year.
Mr M feels NS&Is  website is unclear  regarding  the consequences of making a partial 
encashment. But Ive seen screenshots of what Mr M wouldve seen before finalising this 
transfer request.  Having  done so, Im satisfied Mr M wouldve seen  warnings telling him a 
penalty would be applied and that he wouldnt  earn any index-linking even if he made  a 
partial withdrawal.
To proceed  with his transfer request Im persuaded that Mr M wouldve had to accept and 
confirm his understanding of these warnings. So I think the information  NS&I provided Mr M 
before making  the transfer  was clear and sufficient  for him to be aware that he would incur 
an interest penalty. And I think  that by choosing  to proceed Mr M agreed to be bound  by 
these conditions  as he did when he opened  his account with NS&I.
While NS&I sets out that a penalty payment will be deducted from the certificate on 
encashment in its terms and conditions Mr M feels that it should inform  customers  of the 
specific sum where they are making a partial  withdrawal. He thinks NS&I has acted unfairly  
by not providing  this information. But, while I empathise with Mr M, Im not persuaded NS&I 
has done anything  by not providing this information. Ill explain why. 
Its clear NS&I treat partial and total withdrawals differently. Mr M made a partial withdrawal. 
Mrs M, on the other hand,  had opted to cash in her entire certificate and to close her 
account. So, prior to authorising this transaction  she was shown the precise penalty figure 
that would  be deducted from her investment.
NS&I has explained  that this is because  when an Index-linked Savings Certificate is fully 
closed its system calculates  an estimated valuation, which will include accrued interest.   This  
is based on the most recent reported  Retail Price Index (RPI) figure. And this will only 
happen if a customer  selects the option to complete a closure payment  as Mrs M had. 
NS&I told our service that when a customer selects a partial withdrawal its system  will only 
show the penalty that will be applied. Accrued interest wont be shown  because  this isnt 
credited to a customers certificate until the anniversary date. Here  Mr Ms certificate 
remained open as it had a balance of £100. As the anniversary date would be June 2019 the 
RPI for April 2019 would be used to calculate  the interest-linked interest. So this explains  
why NS&I couldnt predict the interest penalty  it would apply.
This is also explains why Mr and Mrs M had different information available  to them. Im 
satisfied that there was good reason why the transaction Mrs M had wanted to make was 
treated differently in terms of the information she was shown. And I cant  fairly conclude that 
NS&I did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN95681813I appreciate Mr M said he had intended  to close his account and fully withdraw the funds in 
his certificate. Had he done  so he wouldve  seen  the information Mrs M saw when she 
attempted to cash in her entire certificate.  And I think this wouldve, most likely, prevented 
him from completing his transaction. Mr M accepts he made a mistake here. He said he 
hadnt used his computer to make  a transaction like this before.  But I cant hold NS&I  
responsible for that. And I think if he was unsure he couldve contacted it to request 
assistance or clarification  prior to making  the transaction in question.
NS&Is terms  and conditions clearly state  that the certificate holder will be responsible for 
any instructions received  by us between the time a registered user passes the security  
procedure until the time that registered user exits from the service.  And I think that it was Mr 
Ms responsibility to ensure that he wanted to make  the withdrawal in question.  NS&I  didnt 
know the circumstances behind the transaction here.  So it wouldnt have been right for it to 
assume that Mr M didnt  want  to make this withdrawal. To NS&I,  it would only have looked 
like Mr M had asked  it to make a partial withdrawal from his certificate. Thats not an unusual 
request. And there was no reason for NS&I to query this transfer.
The final part of Mr Ms complaint is that hes unhappy NS&I wouldnt reverse his transaction 
when he contacted it to request its assistance.  NS&I said it couldnt do this because Mr M 
instructed it to process the withdrawal  prior to contacting its helpline. In its terms and 
conditions NS&I said certificate holders cannot change  or cancel payment instructions that 
they have given because we start processing  them  as soon as we receive them. These 
terms also outline the limited circumstances in which transactions  can be reversed. And I 
note the scenario in which this withdrawal took place isnt covered. So here, NS&I  didnt  
have a valid reason  for reversing this transaction or reinstating the account as Mr M wants. 
I understand Mr M feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But Im satisfied that NS&I acted in line with the 
terms of Mr Ms account. It follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell NS&I to reinstate this 
investment. So for the reasons set out above, I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN95681814my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568181