K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains about the service she has received from National Westminster Bank Plc.
background 
Miss T says that NatWest has failed to respond to queries and concerns she has over an 
outstanding debt. She says she has raised a number of issues  on numerous  occasions but 
feels that she is no further forward.
NatWest said it had answered Miss Ts queries  and that her complaints had been the 
subject of final decisions by this service.  So, Miss T brought  this complaint to our service 
and asked that we look into matters for her.
Our adjudicator thought that NatWest could have done more for Miss T  so he asked that it 
respond to her queries and pay her compensation of £150 for the poor service.
Miss T initially  accepted  this offer  but then complained further that her specific  queries had 
again been left unanswered.  She asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I intend to 
uphold Miss Ts complaint  for very much the same reasons as the adjudicator.  There is little 
more I can helpfully add to what has already  been  said apart from the following.
I need to make clear  to Miss T that the question about the balance  of the outstanding debt is 
one that has already been determined by this service and so, I will not be addressing that in 
this decision.  My decision is simply about  the service Miss T has received and what  
NatWest should  do to make it right.
I have carefully considered the correspondence between  Miss T and NatWest  and whilst  I 
can see that the responses  could have been more  helpful, I am satisfied  that it has now 
answered Miss Ts queries.  I am not determining the merits of what Miss T complains about  
in these letters as she has confirmed that this complaint is about  the lack of response.
Miss T continues to argue about  the balance of the outstanding debt  but as I say, that 
issue has already  been  determined.  What  I would add is that if Miss T is experiencing 
financial difficulties in repaying the debt,  I would expect NatWest to treat her positively  and 
sympathetically in arranging a repayment  plan.
So, in the circumstances, I think the offer of £150 is a fair and reasonable offer to cover  the 
poor service here and I am satisfied  that NatWest has responded reasonably to the queries 
which Miss T has now raised.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN90680172National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Miss T £150 compensation for the poor service 
she has received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9068017