K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that the documentation produced by their mortgagee  
Barclays Bank UK PLC was unclear about  their entitlement  to make overpayments  to their 
mortgage without  incurring early repayment  charges  (ERC).
To resolve  their complaint  they want Barclays to allow them to make an additional penalty-
free overpayment and recalculate the interest  charged accordingly.
background 
Mr and Mrs Ps interest-only mortgage with Barclays  has two fixed-interest rate products  part 
1 and part 2. These  products expire  in 2026  and 2023 respectively.  
Mr P says in his email  to our investigator dated  30 January 2019 that the mortgage 
commenced on 11 February 2016.  I havent  been provided with any documents  showing the 
commencement date, but I think it must have been  11 February 2017 because  the mortgage  
application wasnt made until 22 November 2016.
The mortgage offer dated 26 November 2016  says both parts  are subject to ERCs save that 
capital reductions  of 5% per annum for part 1 and 10% per annum for part 2 can be made 
without incurring an ERC.  
The offer doesnt  say whether annum  means a period of 12 months  commencing on the 
date of completion of the mortgage and each 12 months thereafter or whether it means a 
calendar year.
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs P contacted Barclays to say that they would like to make two 
years worth  of ERC-free  capital  reductions.  Barclays said they could only make one years 
worth because the allowance for each year of the mortgage had to be used in a discrete 
year and the period of such year wasnt  the anniversary date of the mortgage.
On their complaint  to Barclays  it acknowledged their frustration that the mortgage offer didnt 
provide the dates of the overpayment allowance period. However  it would be virtually 
impossible to do so as Barclays wouldnt know when the interest rate would start from, only 
when it would end. The date of the offer letter  was 26 November 2016 but the rate didnt 
start until February 2017. The overpayment allowance period for both parts ran from 
1 January until 31 December.
Mr and Mrs P had said they were advised when they took the mortgage that they could roll 
over the allowances. However Barclays had been unable to find any evidence of their being 
told this.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to this service. They  said 
they had been advised verbally that they could  roll over the allowances.  The mortgage  offer 
contained no provision  saying the per annum early repayment allowance must be used in 
discrete years or it would  lapse. The language simply said that early repayments  of 5%/10% 
(respectively) might be made  per annum without penalty. 
They had proposed to Barclays in mid-January  2019  that they make an overpayment then of 
5%/10% respectively  and a further  overpayment of 5%/10% respectively after the next 
anniversary date of the mortgage  (i.e. after 11 February 2019). However Barclays  had said 
Ref: DRN93760642this wasnt possible.  Mr and Mrs P said Barclays documentation was at best ambiguous and 
imprecise and at worst misleading. They  said Barclays own staff had conceded  this, yet 
were unwilling to accept  a well-intentioned compromise.
Barclays said the mortgage adviser was no longer with Barclays and it hadnt been unable to 
obtain her comments as to whether or not she informed Mr and Mrs P that the allowance  
could be rolled  over. However, all Barclays mortgage advisers knew  that this wasnt the 
case. Barclays file notes didnt show that any information of that kind was provided  to 
Mr and Mrs P.
Barclays said the allowance period  was calculated for the year prior to the end date of the 
product. Both products  ended on 31 December  so the allowance  would run from 11 
February 2017 (date mortgage commenced) until 31 December 2017. For the second year, it 
would run from 1 January  2018 until 31 December 2018 and so on until the rate ended.  
Mr and Mrs P appeared to have assumed that the allowance period would run from the date 
the mortgage started which  was incorrect.
Our adjudicator said hed been unable to locate any evidence to suggest  that Mr and Mrs P 
were informed that their annual allowance could be rolled over if it hadnt been used. That 
was not to say this didnt happen, but it wasnt something he would have expected  a 
mortgage adviser to say to a customer.
However as the offer was unclear about the period, and he thought it would be reasonable to 
assume the period would begin  from the start date of the mortgage, he recommended  
Barclays pay Mr and Mrs P £100  compensation. Barclays agreed to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. They 
said that if the mortgage offer had made  the position  clear  they would have made the first 
repayment two weeks earlier  and would have been  in the position they had desired and 
anticipated. 
They werent sure why the proposed  remedy was for a £100 gesture of goodwill  rather  than 
requiring Barclays to accept the reasonable and fair proposal of allowing a one-off 
repayment which followed the commencement schedule of the mortgage.  They  had looked 
at the website of another lender which used the expression calendar year.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 11 of the mortgage offer says:
For Part 1
A capital  reduction  of 5% per annum can be made without incurring an early  repayment 
charge. This will apply throughout the early repayment charge period. Please refer to 
Section 10 for details.
For Part 2
Ref: DRN93760643A capital  reduction  of 10% per annum  can be made without incurring an early repayment 
charge. This will apply throughout the early repayment charge period. Please refer to 
Section 10 for details.
Its true that Mr and Mrs P were initially misinformed. Ive listened to a recording of the phone 
call on 18 January 2019. Mr P says:  
Id like to make an overpayment on my mortgage  please and I just have a couple  of 
questions around  that.
In reply to Mr Ps question  the adviser  says the mortgage started on 10 [sic] February  2017,  
so Mr P says its near to starting  the third year of the mortgage. He says:
"I understand I can at this stage therefore  pay back two lots of 5% on part 1 of the mortgage  
and two lots of 10% on part 2. Is that correct?"
The adviser replies: "absolutely".
However it doesnt follow from this that Mr and Mrs P were deprived by that incorrect advice 
of the opportunity to make  a penalty-free repayment.  By 18 January 2019 it was already too 
late to make penalty-free repayments for 2017  and 2018.
Section 11 of the offer doesnt say that if the borrower doesnt make  use of this allowance in 
one year, it can be rolled over to the following year. Neither does the example which  
Mr and Mrs P have  provided from another lender. In my view in this context per annum 
means in each calendar year, not in any period of 12 months, nor in the 12 months following 
10 or 11 February each  year.  
Mr and Mrs Ps misunderstanding could have been  avoided if Barclays  had used  the 
expression calendar year. And the initial incorrect advice must have caused some  
inconvenience. 
But I dont consider this justifies  my ordering  Barclays to allow Mr and Mrs P to make  
penalty-free overpayments now for 2017 or 2018. In my view the adjudicators 
recommendation that Barclays pay compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9376064