K822xcomplaint
Mrs H has a credit card with John Lewis Financial Services  Limited. She complains that 
shes been charged a late payment fee of £12 every month since September  2015, even 
though she set up a direct debit to ensure the minimum payment was made each month,  
and on time.    
background
Mrs H had a John Lewis Store Card. In 2015 her account was switched to a John  Lewis 
Partnership Card. The balance on Mrs Hs account was moved to the new card account, but 
it wasnt possible to transfer  the direct  debit instruction shed had on her old account; for 
that, she needed to submit  a new instruction, which she did. 
In common with most credit cards, the direct debit instruction  gave Mrs H the option of 
paying the full amount due each  month  or making the minimum payment. John  Lewis says 
that, as no option  was selected, the direct debit was set up to take the minimum payment.
In the first two months after the switch, Mrs Hs statements show that manual payments 
were made, as the direct debit hadnt  been set up. And a further payment was made before 
the August  statement  had been issued. John Lewiss  records  show that it received the direct 
debit instruction on 22 September 2015  (after that months statement  had been  issued).  It 
was set up in time to collect  the minimum payment due on the October  2015  statement. 
The August  2015 statement showed that £62 was due by 7 September. The September 
statement showed that no payment had been made, and requested a payment of the 
outstanding £62 as soon  as possible and a further  £63 by 8 October. The October  statement  
included an arrears notice, requesting  payment of the missing August and September  
payments (totalling £125); it showed  the total then due was £188 and said that £63 would be 
collected by direct debit  on or about 6 November. 
After that, a £12 missed  payment  charge  was added each  month. Thats because the 
outstanding balances from the August and September  statements werent  paid and werent 
collected by direct debit.  Because  they were due immediately, they werent treated as part of 
the minimum payment  due each month.  
The direct debit was cancelled from July 2018, although its not clear why. In October  2018  
John Lewis  applied a default to the account, with the result that it was passed  to its 
collections department  and no longer incurs interest or charges. 
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Hs complaint. Because  John Lewis couldnt identify 
why the direct debit  was cancelled he recommended  that the default be removed and that 
Mrs H be paid £150 in compensation.  But he didnt think John Lewis had done  anything 
wrong by applying the charges. 
John Lewis  accepted the investigators recommendations, but said that it intended to leave 
the account with its collections  department  meaning Mrs H could repay the balance without 
further interest or charges  being applied. Mrs H however indicated  that she thought  a 
payment of £300  would  be appropriate and that she should be able to use the credit  card 
again. Because no agreement has been  reached, the case has been passed to me to decide 
 as the final stage in our consideration of it. 
Ref: DRN90210192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the investigators conclusions. 
As Ive explained, the missed payments on the account arose because the direct debit 
wasnt set up at the same time as the account  was transferred. And when it was set up, it 
didnt operate  to collect overdue payments. I can see why Mrs H might have expected  the 
opposite to be true. She had, after all, given  John Lewis authority to take the minimum 
payment each month (rather than the alternative of the whole amount due). The October 
2015 statement, for example, said that the minimum payment was £188. 
I can see too that Mrs H arranged sufficient payments  in August 2015 to cover the minimum 
payments for June,  July and August. But, because the second payment was made before 
the August  statement  had been issued, it wasnt applied against that statement. Similarly, 
whilst the direct debit was set up before the minimum payment under the September 
statement was due, it needed to be set up by the statement date to be effective.      
I can therefore see how the problems here arose  in the first place, and I accept  that Mrs H 
tried to set things up so the account would  run smoothly. But I think  it would have been 
apparent fairly quickly that there were problems that needed to be addressed. The account 
statements referred to the arrears  from September 2015. And, once  the direct  debit  had 
been set up, the statements always said how much would be taken  which  was always  less 
than the amount due and didnt include the missed payments. For these  reasons, I think  that 
the offer John  Lewis has made (on the investigators recommendation) is a fair resolution. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Mrs Hs complaint, John Lewis 
Financial Services Limited  should  remove the default on Mrs Hs account and pay her £150. 
Payment should  be made within 30 days of Mrs Hs acceptance of this decision,  after which 
interest should be paid at 8% a year simple  from that date until the date of payment. I make  
no further award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9021019