K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with their home  insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) in relation to a claim they made to it following a leak from their shower.
 
background
A leak occurred in May 2018. RSA accepted a claim and appointed contractors. In 
February 2019 Mr and Mrs B contacted this service  as their claim was ongoing.  They said 
progress was slow,  work  had been done  poorly  including sewage pipes not being capped 
off and unsuitable floor screed being  laid (meaning it had to be taken up and done again). 
Mr B said hed been left without the use of a shower  and whilst there was a bath in the 
house this was difficult for him to use. He said hed spent hours  trying  to manage the work 
and chasing RSA. Mr and Mrs B said they were at the point  of getting their own contractor in.
In April 2019 RSA emailed Mr and Mrs B. It acknowledged there  had been poor service  and 
said it was truly sorry. RSA acknowledged all the concerns Mr and Mrs B had raised and 
accepted its actions had caused  them unnecessary  distress and inconvenience. It said it 
would credit their bank account  with £500  compensation. It also noted agreement had been  
made for Mr and Mrs B to appoint their own contractor, partial  payment for which  had been 
made by it, with the remainder to be paid upon completion. 
Mr and Mrs B were  satisfied with the way the claim  was now moving  on. But they said they 
remained dissatisfied with the compensation RSA had paid. They  said the particularly 
difficult thing was the length of time the situation  had dragged on for  not only were their 
living conditions affected but so were  their social activities. Mr B acknowledged that, at one 
time, RSA had offered for them  to stay in a hotel  but he said that wouldnt really  have 
helped matters or been practical. Mr and Mrs B said they were  looking for significant 
compensation, including £1,000 for every call RSA had failed to make.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and he ultimately felt that RSA should pay 
Mr and Mrs B a further £500.  He felt they would then have received fair and reasonable 
compensation. 
Mr and Mrs B asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  In doing so they mentioned some costs  
theyd incurred for reinstating their bathroom. They also said RSA should pay them  
compensation in line with what it would  have spent for them  to stay in a hotel.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If items cost more to replace than Mr and Mrs B were expecting or agreed  with RSA, that 
isnt a matter for me to look at here when considering how RSA handled the claim to the 
point of settlement  in cash being  agreed. If Mr and Mrs B have concerns that further 
settlement is due for the claim, theyll need to address these with RSA in the first instance. If 
they remain dissatisfied with its response, then they can make  a further complaint to us.
I can see that this claim, because of the way it was handled by RSA, was very distressing for 
Mr and Mrs B. I cant see any good reason why the repair journey took as long as it did. It 
Ref: DRN96854392should never have  ended up with Mr and Mrs B having to ask for their own contractors to be 
appointed.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B were  living  in poor conditions at times during the claim. And it 
was entirely unacceptable for RSAs contractors to have left a sewer pipe uncapped. I dont 
doubt that living with the resultant  smell day in, day out was upsetting and troubling for 
Mr and Mrs B. I can understand why they felt unable to have friends and family  visit the 
property as they normally would. 
However, whilst  I know  Mr B believes the claim situation caused Mrs B to become ill, I also 
note he says the hospital was unable to diagnose  a problem. I cant then, fairly  blame  RSA 
for Mrs B being hospitalised. But that doesnt  mean  that I dont accept that RSAs  failures in 
this claim caused a significant amount  of distress and inconvenience. 
That said,  whilst I know Mr and Mrs B dont believe the suggested  compensation award is 
sufficient, it is what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. Our 
compensation awards arent designed to punish businesses, rather we look at the failures  
which occurred and decide what we think makes up for the upset these failures caused. So 
we dont apply  punitive amounts for each and every failure,  such  as £1,000 per missed  
phone call, or even  to require an insurer to pay in line with money it should have spent if it 
had handled  the claim better or provided  a service  which the policyholder hadnt actually 
benefited from  such as staying away from home. 
In this instance RSA did offer to pay for Mr and Mrs B to stay in a hotel during the claim. 
They chose not to, so, to an extent,  they chose instead  to live in the house as it was. But 
here, because of the inordinate length of time the claim  took to progress, staying in a hotel 
instead wouldnt have  alleviated most  of the upset they felt  they still wouldnt have been 
using the house as before, and whilst  theyd have  had better washing conditions and no 
sewer smell, living in hotel  conditions for a pro-longed period generates its own level of 
distress and inconvenience. Having considered everything Im satisfied that RSA should pay 
Mr and Mrs B an additional £500 to the £500  paid in April 2019.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B a 
further £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9685439