K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained that Gain  Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream)  acted  irresponsibly  
when it gave him unaffordable loans.
background
Mr F took out three  loans with Lending  Stream. Heres  a table showing more information:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 28/07/2017 18/11/2017 6 £200.00 £68.56
2 18/11/2017 not yet paid 6 £660.00 £279.84
3 27/12/2017 30/08/2018 6 £80.00 £274.48
Mr F said that Lending Stream had issued loans  to him when he was already struggling to 
pay for essentials and meet his other credit commitments.  He said that Lending Stream  
shouldve seen on his credit file that he had other loans  and that it shouldnt  have 
encouraged him to keep borrowing when he couldnt  afford the repayments as he had no 
spare cash.
When he complained  to Lending Stream it said it didnt believe that it acted  irresponsibly and 
the loans Lending Stream issued were  fair and affordable based on the information  Mr F 
provided at the time and the checks that were  carried out. 
So Mr F brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what  was apparent  about Mr Fs 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr F for the amount of information needed to show  the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator  didnt think that the number of loans Mr F had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream  shouldve  
alerted Lending Stream  to think he was having  money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. 
Mr F disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Ref: DRN94108482Lending Stream provided Mr F with high-interest loans intended  for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed  to make sure that it didnt provide them  irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks  to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr F before providing it. Our website sets out what  
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream says that, as well as relying on information Mr F provided about  his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also carried out eligibility, creditworthiness and affordability  
checks. And before it agreed  to lend to Mr F, in order  to give Mr F a safety margin when  
borrowing, Lending Stream  also revised  some of his figures  upwards to better reflect  real life 
and allow  for some  extra spending  - and it took this into account when working  out what  
Lending Stream felt was affordable for him. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr F and Lending  Stream have said. 
loan 1
I dont think Lending  Stream  was wrong to lend Mr F loan 1. This was his first loan with 
Lending Stream  and so I think Lending  Stream was entitled to rely on the information  Mr F 
provided. This suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr F didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve  alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money  problems.
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr F provided or the information 
Lending Stream had, which meant that Lending Stream  shouldve enquired further  into 
Mr Fs financial circumstances. So I dont uphold  Mr Fs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr F repaid loan 1 early  and he took out the second loan the same day and borrowed 
significantly more than the amount hed just repaid. 
But despite  the fact that he later had problems making the repayments on this loan, I dont 
think there was anything in the information  that Lending Stream  had recorded  for Mr F, or 
anything else that it shouldve been  aware of, which wouldve made Lending  Stream  think 
this loan wasnt affordable for Mr F when he took it out. 
So I dont  feel Ive seen  enough to be able to uphold Mr Fs complaint about loan 2.
Ref: DRN94108483loan 3
Mr F took out loan 3 a little over a month  after hed started loan 2. 
But it was for a relatively small amount  and when loan 3 started, Mr F had been making his 
repayments for loan 2 on time and without  any apparent difficulty.
So I cant fairly say that, at that stage, Mr F had shown  any signs that hed found it hard to 
pay for loans 1 and 2. The figures  hed declared,  and the information Lending Stream had 
collected, seem to support Lending Streams  lending decision  loan 3 appears to have been 
affordable for Mr F on the available information. 
And whilst I think  Lending  Stream  couldve gone further in the checks it did before agreeing 
to provide loan 3 to Mr F, I can see that it did ask him about  his other credit commitments.  
And when  working  out what he could afford to borrow Lending  Stream  made allowance for 
what Mr F had said he was already  paying  towards  other loans. 
So, on balance, I dont  feel Ive seen enough to make  me think  that Lending Stream acted 
unfairly when it provided loan 3 to Mr F.
So Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about loan 3.
Im sorry  that Mr F found repaying these loans  difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Fs 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Lending Stream  obtained.
But Lending  Stream could  only decide  Mr Fs lending applications based  on the information it 
had available  at the time.  And, looking at his borrowing record,  I dont think  proportionate 
checks wouldve required Lending  Stream to ask Mr F to prove what he was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted  to say) about his 
financial circumstances. And the information  Mr F provided (and the checks that Lending 
Stream did) all suggested that these loans were  affordable for him.
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Lending  Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr F. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9410848