K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Standard Life Assurance  Limited has dealt with his self-invested 
pension plan (SIPP). Hes unhappy  with Standard Lifes customer  service  and with the fees 
hes been charged. Mr Rs representative,  Mrs C, has made  the complaint on his behalf. 
background
Mr R opened a SIPP with Standard Life in 2005.  He used a financial adviser to do this. The 
SIPP allowed  him to invest  in three different  types  of investments. Level 1 included  a simple 
range of over 300 pension funds. Level 2 gave investors more choice by also including over 
2,000 mutual funds.  Level  3 offered the widest range for more experienced investors. It 
allowed investments  in various funds, stocks and shares, commercial property and gold. 
Standard Life charged different fees for each  level.  
When Mr R first took out the SIPP, he invested  in various Level  1 and Level 2 funds. In 
2009, he also made some Level  3 investments. In 2011, Mr R changed his financial adviser. 
In March 2015 this new financial adviser  was removed. Mr R didnt  appoint  another  financial 
adviser. 
Then, In November 2016, Mr R spoke  to Standard Life. Amongst other things he wanted  
information about the amount he was being  charged  for the SIPP.  By this time, along with 
his Level 1 and Level 2 investments, he only had two Level 3 investments left in the SIPP.  
These investments  had both run into problems. 
The first of these, which Ill refer to as the Maple  Fund, had become illiquid. This meant that 
although Mr Rs investment still had some  value, it couldnt easily  be sold.  The second 
investment, which  Ill refer to as the New Earth  Fund, was classed as distressed by Standard 
Life. The fund had been given a value of £0.01 because  it had been  placed into liquidation 
earlier in 2016.  This meant the fund couldnt be sold or removed from the SIPP.  
In January 2017 Mr R and Mrs C began talking to Standard Life about the investments in the 
SIPP and the administration  charges. These  conversations continued over the following 
months by phone and email. In February 2017 Mr R complained to Standard  Life about his 
SIPPs yearly administration charges. It didnt uphold  his complaint. 
Around the same time Mr R and Mrs C were talking to Standard Life about  removing the 
Maple Fund  from the SIPP.  By the end of March  2017, Mr R had moved the majority  of his 
investments to cash and then transferred  this to a different pension plan provider. Mr R then 
made a payment into his SIPP to allow his Maple  Fund investment to be removed and 
transferred into his own name. 
In October  2017, Mr R again complained  about the yearly administration  charges. Again 
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr R then widened his concerns to include, 
among other things,  poor administration and the process to remove the Maple  Fund from the 
SIPP. Standard  Life told him its position  hadnt changed. 
So Mrs C brought  Mr Rs complaint to us. In summary, he was unhappy with: the poor level 
of Standard Lifes customer service; confusing and insufficient information on charges; the 
failure to support those customers without financial advisers; and, being trapped  in the SIPP  
due to distressed  New Earth Fund.  
Ref: DRN95985232One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Rs complaint. She didnt think  Standard  Life had 
done anything  wrong. Again in summary, the adjudicator  said Standard Life was the SIPP 
administrator. It didnt advise Mr R to take out the SIPP  that was his original financial 
adviser  and wasnt responsible for any problems  caused by that advice. She said Standard 
Life had given Mr R details of its fees. 
After listening to numerous phone calls between Mr R, Mrs C and Standard Life, our 
adjudicator also said she didnt think Standard Life had acted  unreasonably.  Mrs C didnt 
agree. She said Mr Rs complaint is based  on three key issues:
1)an unnecessarily  complicated charging  structure;
2)the lack of service  in dealing with direct investors; and
3)Standard Life not telling Mr R about  the option  to buy the Maple Fund shares  and 
remove them from the SIPP.
As Mrs C, on behalf of Mr R, didnt agree with our adjudicator, his complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the large 
amount of call recordings  given to us. Having done  so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
But first, I can see that Mrs C has made  numerous arguments in support of Mr Rs 
complaint. Im very aware that Ive summarised  the situation in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not responding to every individual point. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I consider 
to be the key issues here; Standard  Lifes charges; and, the level of service Mr R has 
received as a direct  investor. 
Our rules allow me to do this. No discourtesy is intended. This simply reflects  the informal  
nature of our service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  point to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Ill now turn to Standard Lifes charging structure.  I know Mrs C feels  its unnecessarily  
complicated. SIPPs, by their very nature can be quite  complex.  This includes what  fees 
might be charged.  When Mr R took out his SIPP, it would have been the responsibility of his 
then financial adviser to explain the fees and charges  that would apply to the SIPP. 
Ive looked at the charges  booklet that would  have been in force around the time Mrs C 
queried the charges in November 2016.  Ive also listened to the call recording from the same 
time when  Mrs C asked about the charges. The exact charges vary according to what type 
of funds Mr R was invested in. Standard Life told Mrs C that she could check on-line what  
the charges were for each  individual fund. 
Standard Life also sent Mr R a letter dated 24 November  2016. This showed what  charges 
were applicable to his plan. Ive compared  this to the charges booklet mentioned above. The 
booklet gives full details of the different investment  levels and the charges  applicable  to each 
Ref: DRN95985233level. The booklet  is easily available for anyone to read via Standard Lifes website. Im 
satisfied the charges outlined in the letter  are in line with those set out in the booklet.  
 Ive listened to a call between Standard Life and Mr R from mid-February  2017  where  he 
queries the amount of charges for the Maple Fund  a Level 3 investment. Standard  Life lists 
all the Level 3 yearly administration charges from 2009 to 2016. Its clear from this call that 
Mr R isnt happy with these charges  he tells Standard  Life that unless he gets a sensible 
rebate on these fees, he would be looking to take his investments, totalling around 
£340,000, to a different pension provider. 
The amounts of the yearly administration fees charged by Standard  Life are in line with 
those stated in the charges booklet. While  I can understand why Mr R wasnt  happy  with the 
Level 3 administration charges, the details of these  have  always  been available  to him. Up 
until March 2015  Mr R was able to query anything to do with his SIPP, including  the charges, 
with his financial advisers. Mr R, or Mrs C on his behalf, was also able to check on-line at 
any time what charges  had been  applied to his SIPP. 
Ive looked at Standard  Lifes response  to Mr Rs initial complaint about the charges. This 
states that a further charge will be due in October 2017 as Mr R held a Level 3 investment, 
the Maple Fund, in the 12 months prior to that. 
Having looked  at the booklet, and the information  given to Mr R, Im satisfied that the 
information provided by Standard Life has been clear. I dont agree that the charging 
structure is unnecessarily complicated. 
Ill now turn to Mr Rs concerns about  the support he got from Standard Life after he 
removed his financial adviser. This is very closely linked to Mr Rs issue  about  the 
information Standard Life gave him about removing  the Maple Fund from the SIPP.  
I want to make it clear here that Standard Life is the SIPP  administrator. Standard Life didnt  
advise Mr R take out the SIPP. It isnt a regulated financial advice firm. It isnt authorised to 
give Mr R financial  advice about  his investment  choices. 
As the name  suggests, a SIPP is a self-invested  pension plan. Its for Mr R to decide what 
investments to make, and how to manage those investments. Its up to Mr R whether or not 
he wants to use, and pay, a financial adviser to help with those  choices. Standard Lifes role 
is to administer the SIPP and to execute his investment  choices. It isnt allowed to give 
financial advice to Mr R. 
Mrs C told us that Mr R stopped using a financial adviser due to lack of trust.  Thats  a choice  
that Mr R is perfectly entitled  to make. But once  hes made that choice, it isnt down to 
Standard Life to then provide Mr R with the financial  advice about his SIPP  that his adviser 
would have previously  given. 
Similarly, when Mr R wanted to remove the Maple Fund from his SIPP, it wasnt  Standard 
Lifes role to give him financial advice about this. As Ive already said,  it isnt authorised to 
give such advice. If Mr R needed  advice  about  his options, he would need to talk to a 
financial adviser. I understand  this is what he then did. 
Mrs C has told us this situation  is insulting to a private investor who has elected to manage  
their own affairs. I can understand why she and Mr R might  find this frustrating. But Standard 
Life has to work within the rules  and regulations that apply to his SIPP and to financial 
services in general. 
Ref: DRN95985234Removing an illiquid  investment from a SIPP can be a complex issue  and can have 
considerable tax implications for investors. I know Mr R and Mrs C think the option to buy the 
Maple Fund  from the SIPP  was a straightforward  solution. That may well have been the case  
for his circumstances. But this doesnt  mean  it would  be suitable for every  investor.  Im 
satisfied that it wasnt  Standard Lifes job to assess whether this option was suitable for 
Mr R. I can fully understand why Standard Life wouldnt do anything that could be interpreted 
as recommending this option or providing advice to him. 
I can see Mrs C thinks the current requirements  need changing. But thats not something our 
service can deal with. We arent  the regulator and have  no power to change  the regulations. 
Ive looked at the level of service Standard Life has given  to Mr R. While  removing the Maple 
Fund from the SIPP may have taken longer than he would have liked, theres  no evidence 
that any delay  was caused by Standard  Life. Also, the time it took for the fund to be removed 
didnt affect the Level  3 yearly administration charge for that year. 
After taking account of all the available evidence, including all the call recordings Ive 
listened to, I think  Standard  Life dealt  with Mr Rs, and Mrs Cs, questions and requests in a 
polite, professional and timely fashion. Im satisfied Standard Life has treated Mr R both 
fairly and reasonably. 
Finally, Ive also though  about Mr Rs remaining  Level 3 investment, the New Earth Fund.  
This fund is in liquidation  and cant be sold. This is stopping Mr R being able to close  his 
SIPP and avoid further charges. I can see that hes asked Standard Life to investigate his 
options, such as: Mr R buying this fund out of the SIPP; transferring the fund to another 
SIPP provider; or forfeiting the fund. 
To buy this fund out of his SIPP, Mr R would have to pay a fair market value for it, similar to 
what he did with the Maple Fund. But as the fund is in liquidation, its almost impossible to 
put a fair market  value on Mr Rs holding. 
Its possible that another SIPP provider may accept  a transfer of the New Earth Fund in its 
present form. But I think most  providers  would be reluctant to accept such  a transfer given  
the funds position and difficulties. Its open to Mr R to explore this option further. Its not for 
Standard Life to do this for him. 
Lastly, Mr R has suggested forfeiting the fund. But HM Revenue & Customs  implications  
means this isnt an option. While  the fund is in liquidation and cant  be valued, it may 
ultimately have some  value which will be realised when it is finally wound up. Forfeiting the 
fund could be seen  as value  shifting which can have significant tax penalties. 
In any event, Standard Life has agreed  to defer future administration  charges as the 
distressed New Earth Fund is the only remaining asset in Mr Rs SIPP.  It reserves  the right 
to review this situation and re-instate the charges if the fund does  produce  a return in the 
future. And, as Ive just said, the New Earth fund may ultimately have some value when its 
finally wound up. 
Standard life still has to maintain and administer Mr Rs SIPP, even when the only asset in it 
is valued at £0.01. Even  if theres  no activity  taking place in the SIPP, theres  still a cost to 
Standard Life in administering it, including various record  keeping and reporting 
requirements. So Im satisfied its acting fairly and reasonably here. 
Ref: DRN95985235my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9598523