K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that a whole-of-life assurance policy (policy), provided by 
Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance  Limited (Old Mutual), was mis-sold to them. They  are 
also unhappy with the way the policy has been administered since  it went on risk in 1987.
background
Mr and Mrs C were given advice,  in 1987, to purchase the policy by another  business, not 
Old Mutual. The policy  initially  provided a sum assured of £75,000 for a monthly premium of 
£20.  
After receiving this advice and the policy going on risk, Mr and Mrs C moved address several 
times. Mr and Mrs C dont  dispute  that they failed to advise Old Mutual of these  address 
moves at the time.
In March 2010 Old Mutual wrote to Mr and Mrs C. Old Mutual wrote to Mr and Mrs C at the 
address they held on file and as provided to it by Mr and Mrs C and/or their advisor in 1987.  
In this letter Old Mutual  explained that it was unable to continue providing  a sum assured of 
£75,000 for a monthly premium of £20. And that Mr and Mrs C had the option of either 
increasing their monthly premium to £105.70 for a sum assured  of £75,000, or maintaining  
their current  monthly premium of £20 for a sum assured of £10,755. Old Mutual also 
explained in this letter that if it didnt  hear from Mr and Mrs C by June 2010 it would assume 
that they wanted to maintain their current monthly  premium of £20 for a reduced sum 
assured of £10,755.
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond  to this letter, because they had moved  and hadnt received  it. 
So Old Mutual  continued,  as it said it would,  to collect a monthly premium of £20 but for a 
reduced sum assured of £10,755. Confirmation of this adjustment  was sent to Mr and Mrs C 
at the address held by Old Mutual  (and as provided to it by Mr and Mrs C and/or their 
advisor in 1987).
In December 2014 Old Mutual  received back post it had sent Mr and Mrs C (to the address it 
held on file) marked  as gone away. After  several  exchanges of communication between 
various parties, Old Mutual amended the address it held for Mr and Mrs C, in 
September 2016, to the address at which  they were living  at in September 2016.
In March 2018 Old Mutual wrote to Mr and Mrs C (at their now amended address)  confirming 
the policy sum assured of £10,755  and the monthly premium of £20 and their options going 
forward.
It was the receipt  of this letter that prompted Mr and Mrs C to complain  to Old Mutual.
Old Mutual considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and concluded that it had done nothing  
wrong. In summary  it said:
It didnt recommend the purchase of the policy in 1987, so it couldnt be held 
responsible for any claim that the policy  was mis-sold.
It had administered and managed  the policy entirely in line with its terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN90429742It was Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility to keep it updated of their current address, not its 
responsibility to trace  them.  In any event, it had done its best to trace  them and was 
ultimately successful in doing  so.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that 
Old Mutual had indeed done  nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators  conclusion so their complaint has been 
passed to me for review  and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same conclusion as the investigator  for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear Mr and Mrs C have strong feelings  about  Old Mutuals actions and responsibilities. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support their complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that they wont take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised in detail, but 
to set out my conclusions  and reasons for reaching them.
As I see it, Mr and Mrs C are concerned with three  main areas; first, the suitability of the 
policy for their needs and circumstances in 1987,  Old Mutuals decision to reduce the sum 
assured in the manner that it did in 2010 and Old Mutuals failure to trace them  at their 
current address sooner  than it did.
In respect of the first area, its been explained  that Old Mutual didnt  advise Mr and Mrs C to 
purchase the policy. So its not responsible for the suitability of it, only the ongoing 
administration. I appreciate that as the party that Mr and Mrs C have dealt with over the last 
30 plus years, this may sound like a shirking  of responsibility. But I dont think it would be fair 
to hold Old Mutual  responsible if the policy hasnt proved suitable for Mr and Mrs C, given 
that it wouldnt have  been aware  of their needs  or circumstances in 1987. Rather, it would 
simply have processed their application for the policy on the instructions of their advisor.
As noted,  where  Old Mutuals responsibilities do lie is with the administration  of the policy  
ensuring that it has operated correctly throughout its term to date. 
I realise it would  have been frustrating  for Mr and Mrs C to have realised, in 2018, that the 
sum assured under their policy  had, in 2010,  decreased to £10,750   an 85% reduction on 
the 1987 sum assured  of £75,000.  But as the role of Old Mutual is to administer the policy  
Ive focussed  my review  upon whether it has done so in accordance  with its terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN90429743Having reviewed the policy, Im satisfied  that Old Mutual has operated the policy in line with 
the terms and conditions which include, amongst other things,  the following:
16. Alteration of Sum Assured
At any anniversary  of Commencement  subject  to Term 21, the Sum Assured under the 
Policy may be reduced to an amount not less than 75% of the premiums payable  under the 
policy from that date to age 75 of the Life Assured, or increased, subject to such medical  
evidence and/or an adjustment to the Premiums as the Company may require.
18. Policy Review
If, in the opinion of the Actuary  to the Company at any Review,  the performance of units to 
which the policy is linked is insufficient to sustain  the Sum Assured and other benefits the 
Company will reduce the Sum Assured and other benefits provided that the Sum Assured 
after the reduction shall not be less than75%  of the premiums payable under the policy  from 
that date to age 75 of the Life Assured.
The way in which a policy such as this works is based upon  a number of factors  but 
essentially the premiums  are linked to the cost of cover  as the insured gets older, and the 
performance of the funds  within  the policy over time.
When such a policy is first taken out, the premiums paid are actually greater  than what  is 
needed to pay the actual  cost of cover at that time. The surplus paid builds up within the 
policy and is a unit linked investment which is used  to subsidise future premiums (as the 
actual cost of cover  increases with the age of the insured). Often with such a policy there  
comes a point in time where the accrued funds become insufficient to continue  subsidising  
the ongoing cost of maintaining cover. In the approach to that point and when a review  is 
undertaken, its necessary for a provider to increase the premiums to ensure the sum 
assured can continue at the same level or to maintain the premiums  and reduce the sum 
assured.
Unfortunately in this instance, the actual  cost of cover increased  at a rate considerably  
greater than the growth of the funds  in the policy, and so that cost has to be passed on to 
Mr and Mrs C. Its an inherent risk of such policies that whilst cover  can continue  indefinitely, 
the premium needed to keep it going  can dramatically increase or the sum assured 
decreased.
I note that Mr and Mrs C question why Old Mutual  didnt try to contact them  sooner than 
2010, for example after the policy had been  on risk for ten years.  But I cant see that 
Old Mutual ever undertook to do this. If my understanding  is correct what  Old Mutual  
undertook to do, in essence,  was to guarantee the sum assured of £75,000 for a monthly  
premium of £20 for ten years, nothing more.
Mr and Mrs C say that Old Mutual  could  and should  have done  more to trace them.  But I 
disagree. Notwithstanding that I think Old Mutual  did more  than I might  have expected  it to 
do to try and trace Mr and Mrs C, the simple fact is that it was for Mr and Mrs C to keep 
Old Mutual informed of their address, following  each  house move they might have made. 
I would also add that Old Mutuals letter of 2010  didnt require a response  from Mr and Mrs C 
so Im not surprised it didnt think there  was anything  wrong  when no such response  was 
received by it, especially given the premiums for the policy were still being  paid.
Ref: DRN90429744I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my findings but in summary Im not 
persuaded that Old Mutual, in the particular circumstances of this case, has done anything 
wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9042974