K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about a course  he bought  on finance with TTR PT Limited  (TTR).  
background
In February 2019,  Mr M bought a training course  from TTR using a fixed sum loan 
agreement. TTR provided both the course and the finance for it. A few days  later,  Mr M 
entered the training portal and quickly realised hed be unable to complete  it as his first 
language isnt English  and his language skills werent strong  enough. He wrote to TTR to 
exercise his right to cancel the course and finance  agreement. 
TTR said he couldnt cancel as hed accessed  the training portal. They  said the terms and 
conditions of the contract said once hed been into the portal, hed be unable  to cancel. They  
acknowledged that hed only accessed  the course and hadnt completed  any of the work. 
TTR issued their final response to Mr M at the end of February  2019,  explaining  that the 
point of sale call with Mr M and another with his wife, included  a discussion around 
cancellation rights  and Mr M had said that language  wasnt  a concern. They  said the 
salesman gave his opinion  that the course would be suitable for Mr M based  on discussions 
theyd had. TTR said their course tutor can assist students for whom English isnt their first 
language. While he could  cancel the finance,  hed remain liable for the course fees.  
As Mr M didnt agree, he referred his complaint  to us and one of our investigators  looked into 
it. She acknowledged the terms  and conditions of the agreement  said that the course  
couldnt be cancelled  once the online learning platform  had been accessed. But Mr M had 
asked how he could  know whether the course was suitable  for him without doing so. Our 
investigator said the law generally allows a 14 day cooling off period for distance  sales  
except for online digital content  or an agreement to provide a service  and the service is 
completed during  the cancellation period.  
In the case of online digital content, our investigator  explained  the regulations say if a 
consumer will lose their right to cancel, they must consent and acknowledge the fact. There 
must be some positive action  by them to do so, and the trader should confirm  and 
acknowledge that action. TTR said that consumers are told during the registration call of a 
14 day cooling off period and to read the terms and conditions. They said cancellation  
clauses are set out in the financial agreements, but they dont  have any input into the 
information provided on the online training platform as its provided by a third party. 
Our investigator said it isnt clear  whether the contract in dispute here is related  to digital 
content or a service.  Either  way, she felt Mr M had the right to cancel as he didnt take any 
positive action to aknowledge that hed lose his rights to do so, when he accessed the 
platform. 
She recommended that TTR should:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Refund any repayments made  plus 8% from the date paid to the date of settlement
Remove the agreement from his credit file
£100 compensation
Mr M accepted the investigtors opinion but TTR didnt.  They  said (in summary) Mr M had 
accepted the contract based  on the terms and conditions which  said hed lose his right to 
Ref: DRN97994522cancel if he accessed  the online learning  platform before the 14 days  expired. They said 
Mr M was aware that English wasnt his first language so shouldnt have signed up for the 
course if he felt this would  be a barrier to him completeing it. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
view as our investigator and for the same  reasons.  
The Consumer Contracts Regulations 2013 (CCR)  which  implements the European 
Consumer Rights Directive, contain regulations on distance sales.  Theyre clear  that if a 
consumer is to lose their cancellation rights, they must have to take some  positive action  
which should be confirmed and acknowledged  by the trader.
TTR have argued that Mr M shouldnt have  signed  up for the course if he felt his language 
skills wouldnt be strong enough to complete it and I acknowledge  that point. But clearly  
Mr M was able to speak English well enough (the TTR representative thought the course 
would be suitable  for him following their conversation), and it wouldnt have been until he 
accessed the online portal that it would have been  clear to Mr M that it wasnt suitable for 
him. And although  the terms and conditions  say that accessing the portal ends  the 
cancellation period, the law says the trader needs  to do more when selling at a distance.  
It seems  clear  that Mr M had some concerns about  how easily  hed be able to access the 
course as this formed part of the discussion he had with TTR at the point of sale  TTR have 
acknowledged that. So I think its likely  that if Mr M had needed to take positive action to 
waive his cancellation  rights  as required by the law - hed not have  gone  so far as 
accessing the portal and so would have been able to cancel the course and finance 
agreement.
Bearing in mind what the law says about distant sales and all the circumstances in this case, 
I think, for the reasons  set out above, TTR should allow  Mr M to cancel the course and the 
credit agreement with which he paid for it. 
The CCR  allows  businesses in certain  circumstances to retain some costs for information  
accessed by a consumer when they cancel a contract. But in this instance, both parties have 
agreed Mr M hasnt used the course content as it quickly became apparent that he couldnt 
use it. So I think it would be reasonable for him to receive a full refund of anything hes paid.
If Mr M had been allowed to cancel the course,  the credit agreement  would also have been 
cancelled and should be treated as if it never existed. So it wouldnt have shown  on his 
credit file and should be removed from his file completely. 
Mr M told TTR hes suffered stress  and sleepless  nights as a result of being asked to 
continue to pay for a course hes had no benefit  from and ought to have been able to cancel. 
I think TTR should pay him some compensation for that stress and inconvenience.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. TTR PT Limited  should:
Ref: DRN97994523End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Refund any repayments made  plus 8% simple interest per year from the date paid to 
the date of settlement. If TTR PT Limited  consider  they are required  by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from the interest,  they should tell Mr M how much 
theyve taken off. They  should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for 
one so that he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit  file
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the trouble this has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9799452