K820x#14complaint
Ms M complained she was mis-sold  a credit card payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Ms M took out the PPI in January 2003 when she applied for a credit  card.  BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Ms M was advised to take the cover.  Ms M said she 
wasnt given any information about  the PPI  and indeed it was added to the card without 
her knowledge  and consent.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Ms M had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident sickness or unemployment, each  month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Ms Ms credit card agreement. This shows a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all the other information  on the form, including  Ms Ms 
income and employment details.  So I think its likely that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. I consider it 
reasonable to think that Ms M would have looked  over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  its more  likely  than not that Ms M was aware of the PPI and 
given a choice  about whether to take it  and that she agreed to it. I think  she probably just 
doesnt remember doing so after all this time.
Im satisfied BoS advised Ms M to take out the PPI. So it had to make sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Ms M wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Ms M said she would  only have been entitled  to statutory sick pay, and had no other  ways  of 
meeting the monthly repayments on the credit card (although BoS told us that Ms M had 
mentioned having a few hundred pounds in savings). Overall I think she couldve found it 
difficult to make the monthly  payments on the card if shed been off sick or lost her job  and 
Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So I dont 
think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending  the PPI. 
Ref: DRN95739602Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Ms M. As Ive said,  I cant know  
how the adviser explained the policy, or at what point Ms M mightve  been  given  a policy  
summary or full policy document.  So its possible the information about  the cost and benefits 
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Ms Ms circumstances, I dont think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if shed  been unable to work. 
I understand that Ms M feels strongly  about this  but, from the evidence I have, I dont think 
the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Ms M paid for it. But BoS 
has already offered to give Ms M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to 
do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already made the payment  to Ms M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9573960