K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy about the customer service  the Automobile Association Insurance  Services  
Limited (AAISL) has given her, and says this caused her distress,  inconvenience and 
expenses.
background
Ms B bought roadside assistance insurance  through AAISL, which  was the broker  
responsible for the sale and administration of her policy.  Automobile Association 
Developments Limited (AADL)  were  the insurer, a separate entity  responsible for providing  
the breakdown  cover.
In late 2017, there was a problem with Ms Bs renewal reminder  so AAISL gave her six 
months free cover which would expire  in May 2018.  Ms B says her car broke down in 
January 2018  and again in mid-April 2018,  and that when she called AADL, it told her each 
time it couldnt assist  as she wasnt covered.  Ms B says this was poor customer  service and 
that she had to make her own arrangements  with a garage each time. At about  this time 
Ms B asked her bank to cancel her Direct  Debit for the policy.
At the end of April 2018 Ms Bs car broke  down again. This time AADL sent an agent to 
assist her, but Ms B says he took a long time to reach her, didnt have any AA identification 
and left without  getting her car running again.  After receiving renewal  reminder letters from 
AAISL, Ms B renewed her cover by making a payment over the phone. But the payment 
didnt go through  and her cover expired in July 2018.
Ms B complained as she thought that AAISL agents argued with her, werent interested,  cut 
off her calls and gave her contradictory information  by sometimes saying she was covered 
and sometimes saying  she wasnt. Ms B says that in one of the calls an agent  apologised 
and said theyd pay £50 for her costs, which Ms B never received.  
AAISL considered Ms Bs complaint. At first, it apologised and offered £20 for her call costs. 
But Ms B didnt accept  this and contacted our service. Our investigator told Ms B we couldnt 
consider the parts of her complaint that were  about  the roadside assistance.  Ms B thought  
we should be able to consider the roadside  assistance  this has been addressed this in a 
separate decision.
Our investigator also told Ms B we could  consider  the parts  of her complaint about the sale 
and administration  of her policy. AAISL told the investigator it now thought it hadnt done  
anything wrong. 
After looking into things,  the investigator confirmed  Ms Bs cover had expired on 6 July 2018. 
And he said hed not seen  any evidence  that AAISLs agents had been abusive towards 
Ms B or terminated her calls. Ms B disagreed so her complaint  has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN91916552In a previous decision I explained that our service doesnt have the power to consider the 
parts of Ms Bs complaint that are about  how AADL provided her with breakdown cover,  in 
other words the calls she says she made to AADL in January 2018  and mid-April  2018 
asking for assistance  when her car broke  down, or what happened when an AADL  agent  
came out to assist when  her car again  broke down at the end of April 2018.
But I can consider  Ms Bs complaint about  the sale, and the administration  of the sale,  of her 
policy. Ill firstly look at the customer service AAISL  gave  her when she called. Ms B says its 
agents argued with her, werent interested, cut off her calls and gave her contradictory 
information by sometimes saying she was covered and sometimes  saying she wasnt.  She 
says an agent  apologised  and said theyd pay £50 for her costs,  which  Ms B never received. 
Ive listened to the calls Ms B made to AAISL between November 2017 and June 2018 about  
the renewal of her policy and whether  cover  was in place. The agents  remain professional 
and try to help Ms B, and Ive heard  nothing  to make me think  Ms B was offered £50. Some 
calls end in the usual way but Ms B herself appears to end the other calls. So I cant  agree 
AAISL gave her poor customer  service  in these calls. 
Secondly, Ive considered what happened around  the renewal of Ms Bs cover  in 2018. 
AAISL sent her two letters  and a new membership card in November 2017. While  the letters 
say her six months free cover will expire in May 2018, the card itself shows an expiry date of 
November 2018.  AAISLs  told us its processes  mean it cant produce cards  showing only six 
months membership.  I dont think thats unreasonable but I can understand this might have 
been confusing  for Ms B. Ive heard  AAISL  tries on several occasions to explain this to Ms B 
but she doesnt accept it and often  ends the call. So I cant  say AAISL  did anything wrong.
AAISL sent Ms B renewal reminder letters  in March and April 2018, and she renewed her 
cover shortly  after by making  a payment over the telephone. But that payment didnt go 
through because  a few days earlier Ms B had asked her bank to cancel her Direct Debit.  
Ms Bs bank sent her a letter in early May 2018 confirming this and explaining that all future 
payments to AAISL would be blocked unless she asked her bank to remove the cancellation. 
Im satisfied Ms Bs actions were the reason the telephone payment didnt go through, so it 
wouldnt be fair to hold AAISL responsible.
I appreciate this would  have  been a confusing and frustrating  time for Ms B but as Ive 
explained, AAISL hasnt done anything wrong so I wont be asking it to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9191655