K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender lent him money  he couldnt afford 
to repay.  He wants a refund of interest  and charges applied to the loan.
background
Mr D took out a payday loan with Mr Lender in April 2013. The loan was for £250 repayable 
in two instalments  of around £44 and £338.  
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. She didnt think  Mr Lenders 
checks were sufficient  as the second repayment  represented a relatively  significant  
proportion of Mr Ds stated net monthly  income  of £1,200.
The adjudicator thought  Mr Lender  shouldve asked Mr D about his income and expenses,  
including any regular  financial commitments. The adjudicator thought  that if Mr Lender had 
done this, it wouldve realised the loan wasnt affordable.
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges and pay interest on the 
refund. She also recommended that Mr Lender  remove any negative  information about the 
loan from Mr Ds credit file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with this recommendation. It says its checks  were proportionate. Mr 
Lender says the credit  check didnt show anything of concern. It points out that Mr D was 
aware of the total cost of the loan and at no point during the application process did he make 
Mr Lender aware that he was struggling  financially. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Mr D could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. These checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr D for details of his income before it agreed  the loan. Mr D said 
his monthly net income was £1,200. It also carried out a credit check. This was Mr Ds first 
loan with Mr Lender  and it says there wasnt anything of concern in the credit check.
Ive thought about whether Mr Lenders checks were proportionate. Mr D hadnt borrowed 
from Mr Lender  before, so there wasnt any lending history to consider. But the second  
repayment on the loan accounted for a relatively  large proportion  of Mr Ds declared monthly 
income. I think adequate  checks shouldve included  asking  Mr D about his living  costs  and 
regular financial commitments  to make sure he had enough money left to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
 
Although I dont consider Mr Lender  carried out proportionate checks, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must uphold Mr Ds complaint. I would  need  to be persuaded that 
with proportionate checks, Mr Lender wouldve discovered that Mr D couldnt afford the loan. 
Ref: DRN90920002Mr D has given this service  details of his outgoings at the time of the loan.  Ive also had a 
look at some of Mr Ds bank statements. It seems as though  Mr D had regular monthly 
outgoings of about £890. I think if Mr Lender had asked Mr D about  these expenses,  it 
wouldve discovered he couldnt afford  to repay  the loan from his normal  income. As a 
responsible lender, I dont think Mr Lender wouldve agreed to lend.  
Mr D has lost out as a result so Mr Lender  should pay him compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr D paid on the loan;  
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Mr Ds credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9092000