K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the response hes received from Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc (M&S Bank),  following his claim against  it under Section  75 (s75) of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
 
background
In March 2015 Mr A decided to enter  into a timeshare contract with a company  Ill refer to as 
Z. The contract was paid for, in part, using Mr As M&S credit  card.  The remaining amount 
was paid for using  a debit card from another provider. Ill refer to the debit card provider as 
F.
In May 2015  Mr A wasnt  satisfied with the service he received from Z. He approached M&S  
bank and F to ask for a refund of the money  he had paid. M&S Bank was able to claim  back 
the money hed paid on his credit card through  a chargeback. F wasnt  successful  in 
retrieving the money  through a chargeback.
Because of this, F advised Mr A to make  a claim to M&S Bank  under s75. He did this in 
September 2015.
M&S Bank didnt think s75 applied  as the debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s)  had been broken  
by a fourth  party who Ill refer to as Y. It explained  this to Mr A in October 2015. However, it 
did pay Mr A £50 for trouble and upset caused during its investigation and said that it would 
reconsider its position if Mr A was able to provide  any evidence  linking Z and Y.
Unhappy with this decision, Mr A complained  to M&S Bank. It looked into his concerns but 
maintained that what it had told him about  his s75 claim was correct. It agreed that it 
couldve provided a better  level of service but felt the £50 already paid acknowledged  this.
In March 2018 Mr A referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  looked at 
what had happened. He was satisfied that our service could consider the complaint. He 
thought M&S Bank had acted fairly.
Mr A disagreed. In summary, he didnt think M&S Bank had carried out a sufficient 
investigation into his claim in 2015.  And this, in turn, prevented him from pursuing his 
complaint in a timely manner.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  s75 of the CCA, which provides protection  for 
consumers for goods and services bought using credit. S75 states:
Ref: DRN95962312If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
In Mr As circumstances he is the debtor, M&S Bank  is the creditor  and Z is the supplier. 
M&S Bank has said that the d-c-s chain has been broken because  the payment made by Mr 
A on his credit card wasnt made  to Z. Instead  the payment was made  to Y. 
M&S Bank did go on to explain that if a link could be proved  between Z and Y s75 could still 
apply. In particular  M&S  Bank referred  to Section 184 (s184)  of the CCA. S184 says:
Associates.
(1)A person is an associate of an individual if that person is-
a.the individuals husband or wife or civil partner,
b.a relative of-
i.the individual, or
ii.the individuals husband or wife or civil partner
c.the husband or wife or civil partner  of a relative  of-
i.the individual, or
ii.the individuals husband or wife or civil partner.
(2)A person is an associate of any person with whom he is in partnership, and of the 
husband or wife or civil partner or a relative  of any individual with whom  he is in 
partnership.
(3)A body  corporate  is an association of another body corporate  
a.if the same person  is a controller of both,  or a person is a controller of one 
and the persons who are his associates, or he and persons who are his 
associates, are controllers of the other,  or
b.if a group of two or more persons  is a controller of each company, and the 
groups either consist of the same  persons  or could be regarded  as consisting 
of the same persons treating (in one or more  cases)  a member of either  group 
as replaced by a person of whom  he is an associate.
(4)A body  corporate  is an association of another person if that person is a controller of it 
or if that person and persons who are his associates together are controllers of it.
(5)In this section relative means  brother, sister, uncle,  aunt,  nephew,  niece, lineal 
ancestor or lineal descendent, references  to a husband or wife include a former 
husband or wife and a reputed husband or wife, and reference  to a civil partner 
include a former  civil partner and a reputed  civil partner and for the purposes of this 
subsection a relationship shall be established as if any illegitimate child, step-child  or 
adopted child of a person were the legitimate  child of the relationship in question.
This means  that for there to be a d-c-s link, and therefore for s75 to apply there needs to be 
evidence of an association between Z and Y as explained in s184.  
Ive carefully reviewed all the evidence provided  by both parties.  And having done  so Im 
satisfied that there isnt enough evidence of any Associates to substantiate a link between  Z 
and Y under s184. 
Ref: DRN95962313Ive also noted  that M&S Bank  has explained to Mr A that if he were  able to provide further 
evidence of a link between Z and Y it would reconsider his claim as long as this was 
provided within six years from October 2015.
Taking all of the above into account Im satisfied  that M&S  Bank  has acted fairly taking into 
account its obligations under s75 of the CCA.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9596231