K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc wrongly debited his account with a payment of £312,
which its refused to refund.
background
In October  2017 Mr Ss account  was debited  with a card payment to a company that Ill call
C. Mr S contacted the bank to say that he didnt recognise the payment or the merchant to
which it had been  made.
Lloyds processed  a chargeback request through the card scheme,  Visa. Chargeback is a
process by which  card payments can, in certain circumstances, be challenged. Those
circumstances include where  there  is no connection  between the cardholder and the 
merchant to which the payment is made.
The merchant C responded to the chargeback request by providing evidence that it did have
a link with C. It said that Mr S had authorised the payment and provided details of his card.
The chargeback request  was declined and Lloyds re-debited Mr Ss account with the
payment of £312.
Mr S complained about what Lloyds had done. It then became apparent that Mr S had made
a previous card payment  of the same amount to the same merchant in August 2017. And a
payment had been processed on 4 September using  the card details, which  had been
entered manually.
Mr S then told the bank  that he had in fact been in contact with the merchant to arrange
advertising for his business. That service had not, however, been supplied and so hed
stopped any further payments being made.  The banks records  showed that further
payments had been attempted  in December 2017 but hadnt been processed. Lloyds said
that it appeared that Mr S had set up a regular payment  and that the October  payment had
therefore been authorised.
Lloyds explained  however  that it couldnt attempt  a further chargeback.  Because Mr S had
said he didnt recognise the merchant, that was the chargeback reason it had cited  but C
was able to show  that it had had business dealing with Mr S and so that was unsuccessful. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and referred  his complaint to this service. One of our
investigators considered  what  had happened.  She wasnt persuaded, however, that Mr S
had authorised the October payment, or those that C attempted to take later. She
recommended that Lloyds  refund  the October  payment, with interest.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  review  the
case. It said that Mr S had made  an undisputed payment to C in August 2017, but hadnt
suggested that the October payment was a duplicate of it. Instead, he said he didnt
recognise the payment or C. C was able to defend that challenge under the chargeback
rules. And Mr S said that he hadnt cancelled his agreement with C until some time later.
I reviewed the case and, because I was minded  to reach a different conclusion  from the 
investigator, issued  a provisional decision. I thought  it likely that Mr S had given C his card 
details, with the intention that they be used to take regular payments for its services. Having 
done that, he wouldnt have had to give specific authority for each and every payment for Cs 
Ref: DRN94918312services. I noted that this was a common arrangement for making  regular payments. Mr S 
had, I thought, authorised the disputed  payment.  
I also observed that, by law, Im required to determine complaints by reference to what  I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In this case, Mr S had initially 
said that he didnt  recognise the October  payment and had no knowledge  of C. Lloyds had 
submitted a chargeback request on the basis that Mr S had no link with C. That request was, 
however, unsuccessful,  because C was able to show  that it did have  a link with Mr S. 
Once Lloyds had submitted one chargeback request, it couldnt submit  another for a different 
reason  for example, that services hadnt been  provided or that a payment had been 
duplicated. The reason the first request hadnt  been  successful was because Mr S had told 
Lloyds, incorrectly, that he had no link with C. In the circumstances,  I didnt  think it would be 
fair to require Lloyds  to refund the payment; it no longer had any prospect of recovering the 
money from C. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings but Mr S didnt and asked me to look again at his 
complaint.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I havent  
changed my overall  view from that set out in my provisional decision. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  the outcome of the chargeback request might have 
been different  if Lloyds  had used a different reason  for example, that services hadnt been  
provided or that the payment had been duplicated. But it did use the reason provided  by Mr 
S and, because C was able to show that it had a contract with him and that he had provided 
his card details, it was able to defend  the chargeback. Chargeback rules mean that, having 
submitted one request, Lloyds was unable  to submit a second one; I cant know what the 
outcome would have  been if Mr S had given  a different reason to the bank.
It may be that Mr S has a valid claim for a refund of his payment from C, if it hasnt, as he 
says, provided the service  hes paid for. That will depend to some extent on the terms of any 
agreement he might have  with C, amongst other  things. But, as I say, its not for me to 
comment on that. I dont believe, however, that it would  be fair to require Lloyds  to provide a 
refund in circumstances  where it has no prospect of recovery from C.     
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank  plc to take any further 
steps to resolve  Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9491831