K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy at a meeting in 1998, the year after hed taken a mortgage. He was 
employed at the time as a driver  and had been  there well over five years. From  what hes 
told us, he was entitled to only statutory pay for sickness and redundancy and didnt have 
any other means with which to pay his mortgage  if he couldnt work. Also, from what hes 
told us, at the time of the sale he was in good  health  and hadnt  had any health issues.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident, sickness  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost £36.08 a month at the time and for a successful claim it 
offered to pay £520 a month  to help Mr P with his mortgage related costs.  Mr P has told us 
he did have an accident at work  and did make a successful claim on the policy due to this.
Santander has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in January 2008.  
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ps representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ps representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Santander  should  have told Mr P 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr P and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed;
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN90613242my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in January 2008. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions in s.140A  of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  
about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
Ref: DRN90613243professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr P has said he had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included with his mortgage package. But the policy was sold the 
year after Mr Ps mortgage started. So, it wasnt sold as part of the mortgage  package.
Also, as Mr P already  had the mortgage  when the PPI was sold,  I think  it likely he wouldve 
known he didnt need to take the PPI to get the mortgage  and wouldve known the policy  
was something separate and that he had a separate decision to make  about it. 
Santander has been able to provide very little paperwork  from the sale  which isnt too 
surprising given how long has passed since the sale took place  and the mortgage ended. 
Ref: DRN90613244But it has provided a copy of a letter sent by Santander to Mr P with the policy  schedule  for 
the policy. This refers  to the PPI as having its own cost and to payment for it being  taken  by 
a direct debit which would appear on Mr Ps bank statements with its own direct  debit 
reference. It also says Mr P could cancel  cover if he wished. 
Ive also nothing to make me think Santander  wouldnt  normally have given customers  like 
Mr P a choice about the PPI. And nothing to suggest Santander pressured him into taking 
the cover. With all Ive said above  in mind, taking  everything into account I think  it more likely 
Mr P knew  the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure. But it would 
be understandable if he didnt recall  all details  of the sale now,  given how long ago it was.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it provided advice at the sale. The form Mr P sent to us indicated Santander 
didnt give advice. But if Santander did provide advice, Santander had to do more. With this 
in mind, I think its fair to proceed on the basis that Santander gave advice. This means 
Santander had to advise Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the PPI 
was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P. Theres very little paperwork from the time and no record of 
exactly what Santander discussed about  the PPI. This is unsurprising for a sale many years  
ago at a meeting. Theres no specific evidence to show  Santander  took sufficient steps to 
establish whether  Mr P would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy didnt fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Santander  considered whether Mr P had any health  
conditions or had been treated or advised  about  any in the previous year. Overall, on the 
balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Santander did all it shouldve  done to determine  
whether the PPI was suitable for Mr P given  his circumstances. So Im not persuaded 
Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr P, I do think  its more likely  than not the policy was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P had a need for the policy   aside from statutory benefits, Mr P wouldnt have 
received any pay if he werent  able to work  due to sickness or redundancy - so it seems 
likely hed have suffered a significant  reduction in income if he couldnt  work for a 
significant period  of time - and he didnt have any savings  to fall back  on. The PPI benefit 
wouldve helped him manage the consequences in that situation and, by helping with 
mortgage related  costs,  wouldve made it less likely his home would be put at risk.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ps employment or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult  for him 
to claim. And he hasnt  told us of having any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
couldve affected his ability  to claim.  Also,  there were no additional restrictions  on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
Ref: DRN90613245-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr P. 
-While  it would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  claim,  and to claim 
for disability Mr P had to be unable to do his own or any job he was reasonably able to 
do (given his experience, education or training), the policy  still provided  valuable cover 
given Mr Ps circumstances  and the loss of income he could suffer if he couldnt work.  
Also, the policy helped protect payments on the mortgage  on Mr Ps home, so I also bear 
in mind the potential  consequences if Mr P had become unable to make payments on a 
loan secured against his house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr P was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would help protect his mortgage payments if he 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr P would have taken the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr P agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P, Im not persuaded Santander  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr P all the information  he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ps representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN90613246Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr P has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Santander ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr P? To what extent  did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not he would have 
still taken the policy,  had Santander done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr P, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Santander had explained things properly, Mr P 
wouldve acted differently or whether  he wouldve taken the PPI in any event.
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr P had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Santander offered the PPI or advised  him there was a 
suitable product  he could  buy that would help protect  his mortgage payments if he were 
unable to work because of disability or unemployment, he concluded he wanted  that product. 
But Mr P made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly  what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
I consider it likely Mr P knew hed have to pay something for the policy,  but Ive nothing to 
show that Santander told him the exact premium when he applied or made  clear  what  hed 
get if he made a successful claim.  Having said that, I think  it unlikely Mr P wouldve taken the 
policy without some idea of the approximate cost. Also, before he started  to pay for the PPI, 
a schedule was sent to Mr P showing the monthly  cost and the monthly  benefit. If these had 
Ref: DRN90613247been significantly at odds with the expectations  hed had when he bought  the PPI, its 
possible he mightve raised this with Santander  at the time or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr P wouldve have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy. In addition, Im 
not persuaded that its likely Mr Ps expectations about what  the policy  would pay for a claim 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually wouldve  paid.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mr P had at the policy start or 
which he had received advice or treatment for in the year before the start;  
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr P wasnt  
a permanent employee;
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Mr P had to be unable to do his own job or any job he 
was reasonably able to do, given his experience,  education or training; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage; and
Policy cover would  end (at the latest) when Mr P reached age 65.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr P was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  he was in permanent  employment 
and didnt have  any existing health  issues or pre-existing medical conditions. So, I think Mr P 
still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
job but also unable  to do any job that, given  his experience, education  or training, he was 
reasonably able to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although,  given his circumstances, on balance I 
think Mr P wouldve still been  interested in taking the cover.
Santander may not have told Mr P any claim he made would be limited to 12 months. This 
may have  differed from what  he expected  and mightve hoped  for (although the 12 month 
benefit period  was set out on the policy schedule he was sent).  That said, Mr P was entitled 
to only statutory benefits for sickness  or redundancy  so his entitlement  to pay in those 
situations was much less than 12 months  full pay. In those circumstances, I consider it likely 
Ref: DRN90613248Mr P wouldve  still thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments would help 
him manage  the consequences should  he be unable  to work in the circumstances the policy 
covered. The policy  allowed  for multiple claims to be made, could help reduce  his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time and help make  it less likely his home  would be placed at risk.
Mr P has complained he became ineligible to claim on the policy  during its term when he 
turned 65. Policy  cover would end at age 65 at the latest, but Mr P was in his mid-fifties 
when he took the PPI, so I think it more likely than not hed have still thought hed get some  
value out of having it - as its likely it wouldve covered him for disability and unemployment 
for a reasonable period before he turned  65. Overall, I think it unlikely Mr Ps decision to take 
the cover  wouldve been  changed by better information  about  when the cover  would end. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr P wouldve still taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close  to what  its 
likely he thought he was getting and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr P wouldve taken the policy  in any 
event, notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN90613249That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr P wouldnt  have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the PPI had he been  
given clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude Santander 
should pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would  
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mr P thinks  Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr P, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1998 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr P and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Im grateful  to Mr P for his courteous and patient attention to this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9061324