K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt been able to trace an account  he opened in 
the 1990s. 
Background
Mr M recently found a Lloyds cheque book going back a number of years. On Mr Ms behalf, 
Mrs M asked  Lloyds  branch staff to try and trace  the account. Shes advised that the branch 
staff initially told her to come back with some  identification so it could provide more 
information. But when  Mrs M returned  with Mr Ms documents  no information about  the 
account was given to her and she was asked to contact head office. 
Mr Ms representatives asked Lloyds to trace the account and say it should remain open. But 
Lloyds has told us its been unable to trace the account and it isnt shown in its records as 
being dormant.  Lloyds explained it doesnt retain  information indefinitely  and the account 
was most likely closed. Lloyds apologised for the delay in responding to Mr Ms queries  and 
sent a cheque in his name for £150.  
The complaint was referred  to our service and passed to an investigator to look at. They 
didnt uphold  the complaint and thought Lloyds had done everything possible to try and trace 
the account. Mr Ms representatives responded and gave some history  concerning  why Mr M 
opened the account and the amount that may have been deposited  in it. But the investigator 
wasnt persuaded to change  their view. Mr Ms representatives asked to appeal  so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M opened the account  many years ago under difficult and, from what 
weve been told, unusual circumstances. But the existence of a cheque  book  doesnt  mean  
that the account related  to it remains open. And Lloyds  isnt required to retain information 
indefinitely. 
Ive looked at all the available evidence.  I know Mr Ms representatives  feel the information 
submitted demonstrates  there is an open account  with Lloyds but I havent  found any 
evidence to support  that. Lloyds says the cheque book was issued over twenty years  ago 
and thats supported by the timeline Mr Ms representatives have given us. As a starting 
point, Im satisfied the account has was opened in the 1990s  as Mr M says.  
When accounts contain funds but arent  used  for a significant period, businesses  will make  
them dormant. Part of that process  means  the account will be recorded on the dormant 
account register with details of the existing balance. Lloyds has searched its dormant 
account register but hasnt located  anything for Mr M. 
If the account remained open  but wasnt made dormant, Lloyds systems would be able to 
locate it. Lloyds has provided evidence of the searches it completed that show  it doesnt 
have an open  account in Mr Ms name  with the account number provided. 
Ref: DRN97224452Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr Ms account  wasnt made dormant and 
added to the register and doesnt remain open. 
I know Mr Ms representatives  have provided some  account number searches that they feel 
shows his account  remains  open. But banks routinely  recycle  account numbers which  means 
Mr Ms old account number may well have been  reallocated. In addition, the search  information  
wasnt provided by Lloyds, it was supplied by a third party  website. Im satisfied the systems 
evidence Ive seen  shows theres no open  account, active  or dormant, in Mr Ms name. 
In response to the investigator, Mr Ms representatives said Lloyds is obliged to keep  details 
of the closing balance and date of accounts that are closed. But Im not aware of any rule or 
regulation that requires  Lloyds to retain information  of that nature indefinitely. Lloyds says its 
only required  to retain account information for ten years and I havent  found anything to 
show its made a mistake.  
Lloyds sent Mr M a cheque for £150  because  of delays in responding to his representatives 
queries and complaint. As I havent  found  that Lloyds has made a mistake or treated  Mr M 
unfairly Im not going to tell it to take any additional  action.  I leave  it to Mr M and his 
representatives to decide whether to accept  the £150 settlement. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9722445