K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained about Swinton Group Ltds handling of his car insurance policy.  
background
Swinton have arranged Mr Bs car insurance  for over 10 years.  Swinton is an insurance 
broker. The policy  he has is underwritten by another company (the insurer).  His last policy 
arranged by Swinton  started in March 2018.
Mr B said that in March  2018 he was involved in an incident that resulted in minor  damage  to 
his car. He claimed  on his policy. The insurer had the car repaired. Mr B then cancelled his 
policy. Swinton told Mr B that as he had claimed on his policy,  he was liable to pay the 
premium for the whole year even though he had cancelled early on into the policy.
Mr B complained. He felt that the repairing garage had inflated the costs of repair and that 
they did unnecessary  work. He also felt that he shouldnt be responsible for the whole 
premium given he had cancelled his policy early. Mr B also complained  that during the 10 or 
so years he used Swinton, he felt they didnt  look out for his best interests and they didnt  get 
him the cheapest insurance possible. Swinton didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy,  so he brought his complaint  to our service. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that Swinton hadnt done  anything wrong. He felt a number 
of Mr Bs concerns, such as the repairing garages costs,  were  within  the insurers  remit and 
not Swintons.
As Mr B didnt agree  with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr B has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to 
decide if Swinton  have  dealt with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way.
I think it would be helpful for me to explain that Swinton, as the broker, acted on behalf of the 
insurer in relation to certain matters. So even though Mr B had contact with Swinton  and 
Swinton said and did certain  things, as Swinton were taking those actions on the insurers 
behalf, the insurer would be responsible for certain  issues and not Swinton.
is the whole  premium payable after Mr B cancelled the policy?
Mr Bs policy  says that if he has a claim during the policy year and he cancels the policy 
early, then he must pay the whole premium. I should  clarify that this applies to claims where 
the insurer hasnt  been able to recover their costs from a third party.  So in Mr Bs case, his 
car suffered damage because it hit a stationary object.  So the insurer paid to have his car 
repaired, but wasnt able to recover their costs from another  party. An example of when the 
insurer could recover their costs  is if another driver hit Mr Bs car; admitted fault and the 
other drivers  insurer  paid Mr Bs insurer their costs for repairing  his car.
Ref: DRN99950812All car insurance policies I have come  across have a very similar term. And I think its fair 
that an insurer is entitled to the whole premium where they have paid a claim, the costs of 
which they havent been able to recover, as in Mr Bs case. Thats  because  the policyholder  
benefits from the insurer paying to repair or replace their car, which in some  cases  can be a 
substantial amount.
Mr B had agreed to pay his premium in monthly  instalments. But Swinton paid the full 
premium to the insurer in one payment.  And because Mr B had made a claim they havent 
received any of that money back from the insurer after he cancelled  the policy. And Swinton 
had arranged for Mr B to reimburse them with payment  by monthly  instalments.  So I dont 
think Swinton have done anything wrong by asking Mr B to pay them  the outstanding 
amount as thats a sum theyve already paid to the insurer. But if Mr B is unhappy  that the 
insurers policy terms say he is not entitled to a refund for the period he wasnt insured after 
cancellation, then that is a complaint that he would have to make  to the insurer and not 
Swinton. Im not upholding this part of the complaint against Swinton.
actions of the repairing garage
I understand the repairing  garage was one of the insurers approved  repairers. In other  
words, they were agents appointed by the insurer to act on their behalf to repair  Mr Bs car. 
So the insurer would be responsible for their actions, not Swinton. So any concern Mr B has 
about the repairers conduct, such as inflating the costs of repair, should be raised with the 
insurer.
the policies arranged by Swinton
Mr B feels  that over the years he has used Swinton, they havent always arranged the 
cheapest cover for him. He says that as they only work with a specified  number of insurers 
on their panel, they wouldnt have access to cheaper policies with insurers not on their 
panel.
Swinton have said that they have always tried to get Mr B the cheapest policy  available  from 
their panel  of insurers, and during some years  they have given him discounts to keep costs  
down. I have seen  Swintons  system  notes and it does  show  that they have  always 
attempted to contact  Mr B when his renewals were due. And on occasions, Mr B has gone 
with the alternative  quotes found for him by Swinton.
While its correct that Swinton wouldnt have offered Mr B cheaper quotes  from non-panel 
insurers, I have seen  a copy of the terms of business Swinton provided Mr B. That document 
says that Swinton gets commission from insurers when they arrange a policy for him, and it 
lists the panel insurers Swinton deal with. So I think Swinton told Mr B they only worked  with 
a limited panel of insurers.
The terms of business also explain  that Swinton do not provide advice or recommendations, 
and that they only provide information about  the policy to enable  Mr B to make his own 
choice. I think that if Mr B ever had concerns about  the policies Swinton suggested, he could 
have looked elsewhere. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN99950813my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN9995081