K820x#14complaint
Mr T says he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
The policy was sold to Mr T in 2003  while he was filling  in an instore leaflet at the same time 
as taking a store card. He was employed  at the time as an assistant manager and had been 
there four years. Hes told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full sick 
pay as well as redundancy pay and had £4000 in savings. 
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment, life and critical illness,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered a monthly  benefit of 10% of Mr Ts card balance. Subject to the policy terms, the life 
and critical illness cover would clear the balance on death or critical illness. The PPI at the 
time, according to the application  form, cost 89p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  had to still be paid during a successful claim and attracted interest.
When he brought his complaint to us, the only health issue  Mr T told us hed had was more  
than ten years before the sale and he didnt say he missed work with it, but he told us he 
saw a doctor for it and had it treated. He didnt  tell us of any other or more  recent  health  
issues or health related work absences.
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ts 
representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr T wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ts representatives believe there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mr T about the 
poor value; 
Ref: DRN91339082The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr T and the impact  they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN91339083The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Ts case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in particular, 
whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable  for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN91339084-Whether AXA gave  Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent he suffered loss or damage and what  
I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.  
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr T and AXA, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr T know he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mr T has said he had no interest  in PPI and 
has said it was just included as part of the package with his card. But the agreement  he 
signed to take the card had a separate Payment Protection Insurance  Application section 
for the PPI, with a box for him to sign if he wanted  the PPI. Mr T signed there  separately  
from signing for the card itself - and nothing on the agreement said the PPI had to be taken 
or said Mr T had to sign for the cover  if he didnt want it. Indeed, above the PPI box it said: 
Only sign if you want payment protection. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr T knew  the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  When he brought  us the complaint, Mr T 
didnt answer as to whether AXA gave advice or not. With all this in mind, Im not persuaded 
AXA provided advice.  This means  AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr T. 
Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the PPI, including drawing  to his attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has provided us with Mr Ts credit agreement  - showing PPI was selected. Ive also 
seen policy  terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance of probabilities  - applied to 
policies like Mr Ts.
Looking at the information provided to Mr T at the time, I dont think AXA gave him the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  when  Mr T was filling in an instore leaflet. I dont know  what AXA told 
him about the PPI, but I think its unlikely  he wouldve agreed to take it without  having  at 
least a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. accident, sickness,  unemployment  
and life and critical  illness  cover.  And I think it unlikely Mr T wouldve thought  it was free.
Ref: DRN91339085But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ts attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr T, including the need  to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew  
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mr T sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his attention 
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions.
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ts. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ts representative  considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr T about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find that this extended  to the insurer having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr T has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr T? To what extent  did he suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr T.
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not he would 
have still taken the policy, had AXA done  things properly.  Mr T says he wouldnt and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr T had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN91339086As Ive found above, Mr T chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude  
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr T thought  he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr T ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So, while he didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what Mr T would reasonably have thought from the information he based  his decision to take 
the policy on and found acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mr T knew or shouldve known about 
at the start or which hed been advised  or treated for by a doctor  in the 12 months before 
the start and which recurred within 24 months of the start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr T wasnt 
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr T be stopped from doing his 
own or any similar job - and stopped  from doing any paid work his experience, education  
or training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr T pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  was not 
as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
The policy wouldnt  have covered time off work  related to the health issue Mr T had suffered 
ten years  earlier. But taking into account all Mr T has said about  it, Im not persuaded he 
wouldve thought  the risk of missing work in future due to that past issue was such that he 
wouldve placed much  weight on this in his decision.  
So, on balance, I dont  think better information about the policy  exclusions for existing  or 
past health issues wouldve put Mr T off the cover. And I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest he wouldve  been caught  by any of the other significant exclusions  he was in 
permanent employment  for example. So, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I think  
Mr T still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr T might 
Ref: DRN91339087reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he wouldve expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mr T 
from taking the policy,  Mr T, in his circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mr T had known  he could only claim for disability  if he were not only unable  to do his own 
or any similar job, but also unable  to do any paid work his education,  experience or training 
might reasonably qualify  him to do, it might have played into his thinking  about what to do. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although, given Mr Ts 
circumstances, on balance I think he would  still have been interested  in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr T wouldve still taken the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  he thought he 
was getting and I think it couldve provided  a useful benefit at a difficult time, notwithstanding  
his employment  benefits and savings.  And, in those circumstances, I consider  it more likely 
than not he wouldve taken the policy in any event.  
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr T would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr T wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not he wouldve still taken the PPI had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. So Im 
Ref: DRN91339088not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude AXA 
should pay Mr T compensation, as that would  put him in a better position than he wouldve 
been in had everything happened as it should  have done. 
Im also aware Mr T thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described  
the policy. While I accept  there is a possibility a court might  conclude  some of AXAs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mr T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr T and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find AXA had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9133908