K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1996, Mr D took out a mortgage  with Halifax, and he took out a PPI policy  to cover it. Mr D 
paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which  didnt attract interest. It covered  his 
mortgage repayments in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side still have the documents from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Ds data rather than hold onto 
it for too long. Mr D doesnt  remember buying  PPI, but I think thats also understandable in 
any case, given  the time thats passed, and since buying insurance is not often memorable. 
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely  to have happened based  on the limited 
information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the policy without Mr Ds 
permission, or to have  misled him into thinking  it was compulsory. But I have no evidence 
which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with their 
sales process from the time. So on that basis, I dont think I can fairly  conclude that its most 
likely Halifax misled Mr D. I think its more likely Halifax followed a standard process, gave 
Mr D a choice about buying PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though  I can 
certainly understand if he no longer  recalls  doing  so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr D or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr D Ive assumed they did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy  was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr D doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of the policys key exclusions or limitations. While he had some benefits 
through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those, and it wouldve offered Mr D more 
comprehensive cover, especially when his work  benefits reduced to just half pay.
Ref: DRN95961002Mr D said he had another insurance policy,  but it was a different type of insurance  which  
covered different things to the PPI, so Im afraid  its not relevant here. I can also understand 
that he may have felt secure in his line of work. But his mortgage was a very significant,  
long-term commitment, and his employment was by no means guaranteed for all the years  
to come.  Redundancies  can and do happen, even when theyre  unlikely, and thats what  this 
insurance was there to protect. Similarly, there  was no guarantee that Mr Ds savings would 
still be there years down the line. And the PPI meant he could protect  his savings and use 
them for other things.  Finally, its worth bearing in mind that the mortgage  was Mr Ds sole 
responsibility, and if he fell behind on his payments he risked losing his home.  So I think  the 
PPI couldve been useful for him in protecting his home and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr D about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr D wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  something went wrong. The 
policy was not bad value given how much  it would pay out in a claim and Ive not seen any 
indication that it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr D 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  was 
likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9596100