K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  about the monthly  emails she received  from TSB Bank  plc about her 
account.
background
Ms E had a current account with TSB. When she opened the account, she set up paperless 
statements which led her to getting a promotional interest rate on the account.  In 2018, she 
started receiving email notifications about  her statements. Shes explained  that the 
notifications said there was an urgent communication and this made her anxious.
Ms E explained to TSB that she suffered from anxiety  and that the emails made this worse.  
But it didnt do anything  to prevent  these  emails being sent so Ms E complained. Our 
adjudicator explained to Ms E that she didnt think TSB had done  anything wrong. She said 
that it changed its terms and updated customers about how the paperless statements 
process worked. This included informing customers when a statement was ready to view.
Our adjudicator also said that TSB had to send monthly statements on the account to 
comply with regulations,  and that it had said it wasnt able to suppress the notifications. She 
explained that to avoid  notifications, Ms E could opt-out  of paperless statements and receive 
them in the post instead. But she said that TSB hadnt made an error so didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Ms E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. She explained that 
as she could log on everyday to see her statement, she didnt feel it was fair that she 
received notifications when she had explained  that these impacted her mental  health.  She 
has also said her new account  provider sends her notifications that dont say urgent and 
that TSB should  have been  able to do this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ms Es complaint is about the email notifications that TSB sent her when she had a new 
statement to view. Im sorry to hear how the wording of these affected Ms Es mental health. 
And I can imagine it was frustrating that TSB couldnt change  this for her. I can see that 
Ms E has now closed her account with TSB, so Ive looked at whether TSB should have 
done something differently  and I dont  think that it should have.
When Ms E opened her account, she received a certain interest  rate on her balance if she 
set up paperless statements. This means her statements  would be viewed online. In 2017,  
TSB updated the terms for its paperless statements, and it said it would  now send 
notifications to customers to ensure they know when a statement is ready to view.  TSB has 
said it has a duty to keep it customers informed about their accounts,  and this is one of the 
measures it takes  to do that. Especially when statements arent being sent out in the post.  
So, I dont think TSB has done anything wrong in sending Ms E the email notifications every  
month.
Ref: DRN90078462TSB has explained that it cant  suppress  these  notifications but said that Ms E can stop the 
emails if she opts for paper statements. So, Im satisfied there was an alternative to Ms E if 
she didnt want these  emails. I note that Ms E felt the language used in the emails should  be 
changed as the TSB emails say urgent  and her new current account provider doesnt have 
this wording in the notifications. But the wording  TSB uses is a decision that its entitled to 
make, its not my role to tell it what to say in its communications.
I understand Ms E has been  impacted  by the notification emails  since they started being 
sent in 2018. But this happened in line with the terms she was given to help ensure shes 
aware of what is happening in her account. So, I dont think  it has done  anything wrong by 
continuing to send the emails that it said it would in its terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9007846