K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she made a payment to Tesco Personal Finance PLC in April 2018 but
it wasnt applied to her credit card. As a result, shes had to pay interest more interest than
she would  have had the payment been  credited.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 31 January 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
my findings
Mrs B responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision and explained why. Tesco 
didnt provide any further comments for me to consider. 
In her response, Mrs B asked whether Tesco could say what she did when she logged into 
her online banking facility  on 12 April 2018.  Tescos confirmed that Mrs B did log into her 
online banking facility  but theres  nothing  to show she attempted to process a payment 
towards her credit card.  
Mrs B also asked what evidence Tesco supplied to show it hadnt experienced similar 
technical problems  on the day she tried to make a payment. Tesco  told us in its complaint 
submission that it hadnt received any complaints of a similar nature to Mrs Bs around  the 
time she tried to make a payment. I appreciate Mrs B may have concerns over whether 
thats right but I see no reason to doubt  what Tescos told us and Im satisfied that whats its 
said is most likely  correct.  
Mrs B says that because  of her circumstances at the time the £1,500 in question wasnt  
apparent to her when  looking at her current account.  Ive noted Mrs Bs comments  on this 
point and understand why she didnt notice the additional £1,500 in her account.  But I 
havent been persuaded to change my decision in light of Mrs Bs comments. 
Mrs B has pointed  out that Tesco cant  prove  whether she tried to make  a payment or not. 
And I agree thats true but were  an impartial party and dont take sides. If I accept that 
Tesco cant  prove Mrs B didnt try to make a payment  I also have to note that the reverse is 
potentially true. Where  evidence is incomplete or contradictory Ill based  my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the circumstances of the complaint. 
In this case, Mrs B says she tried to make  a payment but because  of a systems  error Tesco  
failed to take it. In turn, Tesco says it has no record of Mrs B trying  to make  a payment and it 
didnt have any systems problems at that time which wouldve stopped one going through.  
Tescos also advised  that Mrs B didnt use her online  facility  to make  a payment on 
12 April 2018. I appreciate that this is a finely balanced complaint but for me to uphold Id 
have to accept  that it was more likely  than not that Tescos systems  had experienced a 
systems failure that was unique to Mrs Bs attempt to make a payment. 
Ref: DRN99332972But I think technical issues of this nature are most likely to be widespread and affect  more  
than one customer. Im sorry  to disappoint  Mrs B but for the reasons Ive given above  and in 
my provisional decision Im not persuaded that a technical fault with Tesco led to Mrs Bs 
payment failing to go through.  
Tesco didnt  respond to my provisional decision.  I havent been persuaded to change  my 
decision in light of Mrs Bs comments. As a result, I havent changed the conclusions I came 
to in my provisional decision and I still dont think there are grounds to uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision my decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99332973Copy of Provision  Decision 
complaint
Mrs B complains that she made a payment to Tesco Personal  Finance PLC in April 2018 but
it wasnt applied to her credit  card. As a result,  shes had to pay interest more interest than
she would have had the payment been  credited.
background
Mrs B says shed had trouble making  a payment to her credit  card using the mobile application
so logged into her online banking facility on 12 April 2018 and paid Tesco  £1,500.
Tesco says it can see Mrs B logged into her online banking facility on 12 April 2018 but no
payment was made to her credit card. As a result,  Mrs Bs credit card balance  wasnt reduced
accordingly and interest was applied  to the account for the whole outstanding  balance.
Mrs B complained to Tesco  but as it didnt  have  any record of a payment being received it
didnt agree  to refund  the interest  shes paid. Mrs B went on to refer her complaint to this
service and an adjudicator  looked at what had happened.
The adjudicator accepted there  wasnt any systems evidence to show Tesco  had made  an
error. But they thought the complaint should be upheld  because  Tescos systems  didnt say
whether the payment had been declined  or not.
Tesco didnt agree. It explained that as it had no record of an attempted transaction, its
systems wouldnt be able to confirm whether it had been approved or declined. Tesco also
said Mrs B wouldve seen  she had £1,500 more  in her current account than expected after
the transaction failed to go through.  So it wouldve been reasonably clear something had
gone wrong. Tesco  went on to confirm that there werent  any technical issues affecting its
payment systems at the time and asked  for the case to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
As Tesco didnt accept the adjudicators view the case has been passed to me to make
a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different
decision to the adjudicator. From what Ive seen, Ive not found Tesco made  a mistake so I
dont intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Id like to start by saying that I dont doubt what Mrs B says about attempting to make a
payment on 12 April 2018.  Tesco has provided evidence to show she logged into her online
banking facility on the day in question and Mrs B has provided statements to show she had
enough money to make the payment. Looking  at everything, I think  Mrs B did want  to make
a payment to her Tesco credit card on 12 April 2018.
But my role is to decide  whether a mistake by Tesco has led to a loss for Mrs B. And based
on what Ive seen,  Im not satisfied Tesco made a mistake.  I say this because Im not
persuaded there was a technical fault with Tescos systems which led to the payment not
being made.
Tescos confirmed  that the problem Mrs B says she encountered wasnt something that was
reported by other customers (it has no other complaints of this nature) and there were  no
Ref: DRN99332974known technical issues affecting its payment systems on 12 April 2018.  I think  thats
important. Had there been an issue affecting  whether customers  could pay their credit cards
online Id have expected  it to have been experienced by multiple customers.
When the adjudicator  spoke with Mrs B she said she didnt recall seeing  a payment
confirmation screen or a screen saying it had been declined after trying to pay on
12 April 2018. The adjudicators view to Tesco said that it was at fault because Mrs B tried to
pay via its website. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Tesco would only take a customer
to a payment confirmation or decline  screen if it had attempted to process a payment.  In this
case, Tesco  has no record of a payment being attempted so it follows that there would be no
subsequent screen.
Tesco says that the funds remained in Mrs Bs bank account so it wouldve been reasonably
clear something had gone wrong. Mrs B says that shes a busy  parent and wasnt keeping
track of her day to day balances. I appreciate Mrs Bs situation but £1,500 is a substantial
amount of money and I dont  think Tescos comments are unreasonable here.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Ive not been persuaded that Tescos systems
caused Mrs Bs payment  to fail. Tesco has no record of a payment being attempted and
Mrs B never received  any confirmation it had gone through.
Im persuaded  that Tesco  didnt experience  problems with its payment systems around
12 April 2018 and Ive not found anything to show its made  a mistake here. As Ive said
above, I dont doubt what Mrs B says about wanting to make a payment on 12 April 2018 but
Ive not found anything to support the adjudicators view that it was Tescos error that led to it
not going  through. As Ive not found Tesco made a mistake I dont intend  to tell it to do
anything further to resolve this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Mrs B and Tesco Personal  Finance PLC have until 1 March 2019 to send me anything
further theyd like me to consider before I make  a final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9933297