K820x#14complaint
Miss F and her mother Mrs R have complained that Aviva  Insurance Limiteds approved  
repairer (AR) carried out poor repairs to Miss Fs car when she made  a claim under her car 
insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy  with the service they received from Aviva.
background
Miss F bought a car insurance policy with Aviva. Unfortunately she was involved in an 
incident and made a claim to Aviva in June  2018.  
Miss F and Mrs R made  a number of complaints to Aviva between  September 2018 and 
January 2019  about the service they received from Aviva and the AR. Miss F remained 
unhappy with the repairs to the drivers window. 
In September  2018 and January 2019  Aviva  paid Miss F a total of £80 compensation for its 
poor service. In March  2019 it offered to pay Miss F a further £125 compensation for the 
inconvenience it had caused. Miss F told us she didnt accept this payment and contacted  us 
instead. 
Our investigator thought that overall  Aviva had done enough to put things right.  He couldnt 
find any evidence to show that the AR had poorly  repaired  Miss Fs car. He thought  Aviva  
had investigated  Miss Fs concerns by having her car inspected each time  but there was 
an alternative explanation as to the cause of the faults. The AR carried out further repairs as 
a goodwill gesture, and the manufacturer dealership garage carried  out work under the 
warranty as Miss Fs car was less than a year old. 
Miss F didnt agree. She said the biggest issue for her is that Aviva doesnt appear to have 
taken the time to assess her complaint. She says its offered her a further £125 without an 
explanation or breakdown. Miss F said shes had to take time off work, been  caused 
considerable distress  and inconvenience over a year and so she doesnt  feel Aviva has done 
enough to put things  right. 
So Miss F would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when dealing with a claim. I can 
understand Miss Fs frustration as she was clearly put to more  time and trouble than what 
wed consider reasonable in this case. When things go wrong, we look at what  the insurer  
did to put things right and whether this was reasonable.
Miss F says the biggest issue for her is that Aviva hasnt properly investigated her concerns 
and it hasnt provided a breakdown of what the £125 compensation is offered for. When  we 
look at complaints, we consider the impact any failings by the insurer  have  had on the 
customer  and we look at whether the compensation offered or paid by the insurer seems 
fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN97962902In July 2018 the AR completed repairs to the drivers side of the car, which  included  the 
drivers side door.  Miss Fs car is a convertible and was only a couple of months  old when 
the incident happened. Miss F said she noticed  the drivers window was sticking when her 
car was returned to her following repair. She initially thought this might  be due to the fact 
there had been  work done  but a few days later it was raining and Miss F said she couldnt 
put the roof down. As a result, her car was water  damaged. 
In August  2018  the AR looked at Miss Fs car and said it arranged  for Miss Fs car to be 
checked by an approved  dealership garage. It found no faults  with the window or roof. It said 
it didnt carry out any repair  work  to the roof when it first repaired Miss Fs car.
Aviva paid Miss F £80 compensation  as it said it caused confusion around the post 
inspection report.  But it didnt agree it was responsible for faults with the repairs to Miss Fs 
car. 
Miss F said she continued to drive  her car for several months  but said she noticed the 
drivers window appeared airy. In December 2018, Miss F said a relative who was also a 
mechanic advised  her that the seal to the window  wasnt right. 
Miss F contacted Aviva in January 2019  and it arranged  for Miss Fs car to be inspected  by 
the AR. The AR said that the issue was most likely  caused by pressure being  put on the 
window, but as a goodwill gesture it replaced  the glass. Aviva paid Miss F £50 compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused and to resolve  her complaint. 
Miss F remained  unhappy and so she arranged for an approved dealership garage to 
inspect her car. She said they noticed  immediately that the window seal wasnt  right.  
Aviva has provided a copy of the engineer report for the inspection  carried out at the 
approved dealership garage by an engineer in March 2019. Miss F was unhappy with the 
roof and the drivers side window.  The engineer reported that it was evident  the driver side 
window had either dropped or been  pushed down leaving a gap which would cause  the wind 
noise Miss F described. The AR had found  fingerprint marks suggesting signs  of an 
attempted break  in to the car. But it had agreed  to reposition the drop glass  as a goodwill 
gesture. 
The engineer confirmed that the AR did no work  on the roof when it carried  out its repairs. 
He reported that the approved dealership  garage  agreed to lubricate the roof as it was under 
warranty  and they also agreed  to readjust the glass door for Miss F. 
I agree  with Miss F that shes  been  put to additional  time and trouble dealing with her claim. 
However, I think Aviva has dealt with Miss Fs concerns reasonably at each stage. One of 
Avivas engineers  and the approved dealership garage  assessed the repairs  to Miss Fs 
car in March 2019.  I havent seen enough to persuade me that the ARs repairs werent 
properly carried out or caused further  damage.
I understand Miss F and Mrs R will be disappointed  with my decision. But overall  I think 
Aviva has fairly compensated Miss F for the time and trouble its poor service  caused her. So 
Im not asking it to do any more. 
Ref: DRN97962903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. If 
Miss F wishes  to accept Avivas  offer in March 2019  of £125 compensation, she can contact 
Aviva directly to arrange this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9796290