K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to help them when they 
lost their money to a scammer. 
background
On 22 January 2018, Mr and Mrs H transferred £2,840 to a company they found online for a 
holiday villa. This was via an international transfer  in a Lloyds branch. In June 2018,  they 
tried to contact the seller  to arrange  the collection of the keys but could no longer find any 
contact details. It was at this point  that they realised they had unfortunately been the victims  
of a scam.  
They made Lloyds  aware  on 7 June 2018 and Lloyds contacted  the beneficiary bank the 
same day to request  a return of the funds. The beneficiary bank responded on 14 June to 
explain that no funds  remained in the account,  so they were unable to return  any. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to allow 
the transfer to leave  Mr and Mrs Hs account without asking further questions about it. This is 
because he felt it wasnt an unusual  payment  for Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H disagreed; 
they felt Lloyds should have done  more to protect them  and help them recover the funds 
from the beneficiary bank.  
Because an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN97074532And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  if Lloyds  acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealing  with Mr and 
Mrs H when they transferred the £2,840, or if it should have done more  than it did. Having 
carefully considered  everything available to me, I think Lloyds did act reasonably  in allowing 
the transfer to leave  the account.  And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover  
funds from the beneficiary bank.  So, I dont think it needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs H with 
the £2,840 they lost. Ill explain why in more  detail. 
Mr and Mrs H accept that they authorised the transfer of £2,840 themselves. This means 
that Lloyds had an obligation to follow their instruction. But, as explained above, there are 
some situations in which Lloyds should  reasonably  have had a closer  look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the transfer. 
Ive thought about this carefully  and Ive first considered the payment itself. To do this, Ive 
looked at Mr and Mrs Hs bank statements for the account in question. Having done so, I 
dont think the payment  amount was particularly unusual or suspicious in comparison to Mr 
and Mrs Hs normal account  activity.  While  I can see Mr and Mrs H didnt usually make 
international transfers, I dont think this on its own is enough to make the payment 
suspicious. And there was nothing else about the payment that made  it stand out as 
unusual. So, I think the fact that Lloyds  didnt identify the payment as potentially  fraudulent  
was reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Mr H has said that he made the payment in branch. Lloyds has agreed that Mr H completed 
the payment using  a tablet in a branch,  which he likely would have had help with. Mr H has 
said he doesnt remember much  about  the conversation with the member of staff, which  is 
understandable. But hes said he wasnt asked any questions about  the payment or given  
any advice about  the type of payment he was making. He also said he may have mentioned 
that it was for a villa but cant be sure. Lloyds has said it isnt possible to know  which 
Ref: DRN97074533member of staff helped Mr H make the payment, so it wasnt able to provide any testimony 
from them. 
Ive thought about this carefully.   Based on the limited evidence available,  I think its more  
likely there wasnt a meaningful discussion between Mr H and the member of staff when the 
payment was made. So, I dont think Lloyds missed an opportunity  to identify the scam.  And, 
as explained above, I dont the payment itself was particularly unusual or suspicious for Mr 
and Mrs Hs normal account  activity.  So, I dont think Lloyds  should  reasonably  have been  
expected to have a discussion  with Mr H about  the payment.  And I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for the member of staff to have  helped Mr H process  the payment of £2,840  
without asking any further questions about  it.
Mr and Mrs H notified Lloyds of the scam on 7 June 2018 and Lloyds sent a message  to the 
beneficiary bank  on the same day. It should  be noted that this is on a best endeavours basis,  
so theres no guarantee of a refund. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to Lloyds 
on 14 June to explain no funds remained  in the account. So, I think  Lloyds did what it could 
to try and recover the funds. 
Mr and Mrs H have unfortunately been  the victims of a cruel and convincing scam, and Im 
very sorry that they lost this money. But having carefully considered  everything available  to 
me, I think  Lloyds decision not to refund  them in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr and Mrs Hs instruction to make the transfer  
of £2,840 and I havent  seen any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. And I dont  think  it 
should have questioned Mr and Mrs H about  the payment when  they made it. Once Mr and 
Mrs H notified Lloyds  of the scam, I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover their 
funds in a timely manner.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9707453