K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  problems theyve had with how Cheltenham & Gloucester 
Plc (C&G  - who are part of the Lloyds Banking  Group) has administered a buy to let (BTL) 
mortgage on a property they own. There are several elements to the complaint but the crux 
of the concerns stem  from two main issues.
Mr and Mrs B say:
-The correspondence address on their mortgage account was changed  in error by 
C&G and this led to personal information being sent to a third party  causing  them  
distress and financial loss.  
-C&G  changed their mortgage product in July 2007 and added a product fee to their 
account without  their agreement.
Background
In July 2005, Mr and Mrs B took out a BTL mortgage with C&G on a property Mr B already 
owned. The property was mortgaged but it was changing from a residential basis  to a BTL 
basis and Mrs B was being added to the mortgage.  The mortgage was taken out on a two 
year fixed  deal that ran to July 2007. 
In November 2017, Mr B telephoned C&G  to get some information  about  the property. 
During these conversations, an issue was discovered with the correspondence address held 
by C&G. C&Gs records showed the correspondence  address as the BTL property address 
but Mr B said this was incorrect.  He provided details of his home  address, as he understood 
this to be the correct  correspondence address. The address  was updated on C&Gs 
systems. 
In March 2018, Mr B contacted C&G to raise concerns  about  a data breach. He explained he 
hadnt received  all of the annual mortgage  statements. He said he had found out in 2017 
that C&G  had reverted  to sending the statements  to the BTL property rather than his home 
address. He said that he hadnt authorised for the address to be changed. He explained that 
sending the statements and other  correspondence to the BTL property  had caused  problems 
because the tenants had opened the mail, gaining access to personal  financial information. 
He says this led to the tenants leaving the property  and Mr and Mrs B losing out financially.  
Lloyds Bank  responded on C&Gs  behalf.  It explained that its records  show the mortgage is 
on a BTL basis but it wasnt until November 2017  that the correspondence address  was 
recorded as Mr and Mrs Bs home address. Prior  to that, correspondence would have been 
sent to the BTL property. It also couldnt find any records  (prior to November 2017) of 
correspondence being sent to Mr and Mrs Bs home address. It invited Mr and Mrs B to 
provide evidence to show  they had received letters at their home address for the BTL 
mortgage. It offered  to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 in compensation but they rejected this. 
Lloyds also responded to a query  raised  by Mr and Mrs B about why the balance of the 
mortgage is higher  than the original amount they borrowed  on an interest  only basis.  It 
explained this was because a product fee of £699 was added  to the mortgage in July 2007.
Following this, Mr and Mrs B raised  a new complaint about the product fee being added  to 
the mortgage. They say that they didnt agree to it, want it removed and a refund of any 
Ref: DRN90171602interest charged. They also queried  how a credit  check could be carried  out for Mrs B on the 
BTL property, as she has never lived there. 
Lloyds responded to the new complaint. It said its records show  in July 2007 C&G provided  
quotes over the telephone for a new fixed rate and a switch was processed a couple of days  
later. It says a letter of confirmation was sent to the BTL property address, as this was the 
address it held at that time. It also explained  that it was not a requirement to sign any 
documents in relation to the product transfer. Neither was it a requirement to carry out a 
credit search on either Mr or Mrs B. It provided Mr and Mrs B with referral rights to this 
service but explained that it believes they were  out of time to raise  this complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in June 2019. My provisional findings were  as follows:
Firstly, Ive considered the complaint points Mr and Mrs B have raised about the 
correspondence address on their BTL property. I acknowledge  that Mr and Mrs B are sure 
the correspondence address has been changed  from their home address. So Ive looked at 
the available  evidence to decide whether  C&G has made any errors. 
When the BTL mortgage  was first taken out Mr and Mrs B hadnt yet moved  to their current  
address. According  to the mortgage  application  they were  looking to sell another  property,  
so it seems they had plans to move. C&G  says that the land registry shows  they purchased  
their current  home in November 2005. This means that when the BTL mortgage was taken 
out in July 2005, the correspondence address couldnt have been set up as their current 
address. So I need  to consider if the address was changed at a later date. 
Mr and Mrs B say they have other products held with the Lloyds banking group and their 
address was correctly  updated in 2005  when they moved. C&G has provided  a copy of its 
change notes held for the BTL mortgage  account. I have looked at the notes and they dont 
show a record of the correspondence address changing to Mr and Mrs Bs home address. 
There are notes from 2008 to show a bank account  update and a minor update to the BTL 
property address. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B believe they updated  all of their 
accounts at the same  time, but I dont think the weight  of evidence supports that the 
correspondence address for the BTL mortgage was requested to be changed to their home 
address.  
 
Mr and Mrs B say they have received correspondence relating to the BTL mortgage  at their 
home address. They have  provided  some evidence  to show this. Ive looked at the pictures 
of letters  they have sent but this is partial information and doesnt  show  the full details of the 
letters  for example, a date is missing on one letter. Our investigator has asked them  to 
provide full copies  of the letters but I cant see that this information has been sent. If Mr and 
Mrs B send full copies of the letters, I will be happy to review this information. But based on 
what Ive currently seen,  I cant say that this evidence  supports that correspondence  about 
the BTL mortgage  was sent to Mr and Mrs Bs home  address before 2017.
Mr and Mrs B have  asked this service to consider a telephone call Mr B had with C&G in 
November 2017.  They say that this is where C&G admitted a migration  error  had led to the 
address being  changed.  C&G say that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account has always been  
set up and administered  on the same system, so while some accounts were  migrated 
between 2013  and 2017 theirs was not one of them. Since reviewing the complaint file, I 
have been able to obtain recordings  of the calls between C&G  and Mr B in November 2017. 
The reason  for the calls seems to be about Mr B wanting to get information  to help with the 
sale of the property. During one of the calls, there  is a discussion about the correspondence 
Ref: DRN90171603address held on the system. Mr B is surprised to learn the records show it as the BTL 
property address. The call handler says that the reason for the discrepancy probably, 
might have been during migration.  In my view, the tone of the conversation  was that the call 
handler was trying to find an explanation and offering  possible  reasons  for the difference  in 
address. I dont think it would be right to say the handler was making a clear  admission that 
migration had definitely caused  the address to be incorrect. Having  considered this, I dont 
think this is strong evidence that a migration error caused correspondence  to be sent to an 
incorrect address.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs frustration that this call wasnt  made available sooner. I 
have seen an email  that was sent by Lloyds  to Mr B on the 27 March 2018 that explains the 
content of calls  including  that migration  was offered as a possible reason  for confusion with 
the address held. It also offered to send Mr B a copy of the calls if he wanted them but it 
doesnt seem they were  ever sent.  So while it is unfortunate that these calls werent  made 
available to this service sooner, I dont think information was clearly withheld intentionally  
as Mr B has suggested. In any case, I have now reviewed it and considered it as part of my 
provisional findings. I will arrange for the call recordings to be shared with Mr and Mrs B, so 
they can comment on them in response  to my provisional decision.
C&G has also provided copies of the mortgage  statements it holds. The date range of 
statements it has provided is from January 2011 to January 2017. On all of these, the 
correspondence was sent to the BTL address. So this indicates that the correspondence 
address on the account has remained at the BTL property since at least 2011 until it was 
changed later in 2017. This is further  evidence to support that the correspondence address 
for the mortgage  account has always remained as the BTL property and not changed due to 
a migration error. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also raised concerns about Lloyds sending credit card statements for 
another customer to their home address. They say they were sent another  customers post 
due to a system migration  error  and question  whether this was the same error that meant 
their statements were  sent to the BTL address. I havent considered anything to do with 
actual error  of sending  someone elses statements. I have only considered this point in 
relation to how this affects the complaint that C&G  incorrectly changed the correspondence 
address on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account.  I dont think  it does. There  is little I can see 
that directly links the two issues. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B are concerned about 
receiving another  customers post but I dont  think this in itself means there  must have been  
a mistake made with the address held for their BTL mortgage on C&Gs systems.  
In summary   I dont  think there is sufficient evidence to say C&G has made  an error. I know  
Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly  about this point  and are adamant  that the address has been 
changed  and this caused  them distress and financial loss. But I currently  dont think  the 
weight of evidence  supports that C&G have done something wrong. If Mr and Mrs B have 
further evidence  to show that prior to November  2017 correspondence  for the BTL mortgage 
was sent to their home address, they should  send this in response to my provisional decision 
for me to consider.  
C&G did make Mr and Mrs B an offer of compensation of £200 in relation to the problems 
with their address.  Although further investigation has now been completed, C&G has 
confirmed this offer is still open. If Mr and Mrs B would like to accept this offer, they should  
contact C&G directly to arrange payment. 
Ref: DRN90171604The other issue that I need to consider relates to a change in mortgage  product applied to 
Mr and Mrs Bs BTL mortgage account in July 2007. I first need to decide whether this 
complaint has been made in time. Currently I dont think that it was and Ill explain why. 
The rules  applying to this service say that, where a business doesnt consent (as C&G 
doesnt here), I cant consider a complaint  made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, more than three years after the complainants were aware, or ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware, of cause for complaint. This is outlined in Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R,  which  can be found  online in the DISP section of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  handbook. 
The product  on Mr and Mrs Bs BTL mortgage account was changed in July 2007,  but they 
didnt complain about this until March 2018.  So Im satisfied that this part of their complaint 
wasnt made within six years of the event complained of.
This means  I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs B complained within  three years of when  
they ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint.
When a consumer ought to have been  aware  of cause  for complaint will depend  on what  
theyre actually complaining about.  Mr and Mrs B dispute that they agreed to their mortgage  
product changing  (and the associated  fee being  added to their account). They  have also 
raised concerns  about credit checks (or lack of) at the time the mortgage  was moved to a 
new product in 2007. So this second  point fundamentally  relates to the first point. For this 
reason, I consider  their complaint to be that a change was made to their mortgage product 
without their authorisation. 
There is some evidence  to support that Mr and Mrs B were aware that a new product had 
been applied  to their mortgage  and there was a charge  so ought to have cause for 
complaint.
Firstly, C & G have  provided a copy of a letter dated  13 July 2007 addressed to Mr and Mrs 
B at the BTL property. This letter  confirms the mortgage would be moving on to a special 
deal and also that there would be a charge added to the account. I think  this information is 
sufficient for them to have  been aware they had cause for complaint. I appreciate  that Mr 
and Mrs B say that letters shouldnt  have  been sent to the BTL property because it wasnt  
the correspondence address. However, for the reasons Ive explained above, my current  
view is that the correspondence address wasnt changed until November 2017. So I think it 
was reasonable  for C&G to send this letter to Mr and Mrs B at this address. It is addressed 
correctly, so on balance  I think it would have been received.  
There is also other evidence that Mr and Mrs B were aware  that there had been a product 
change and a fee would  be charged. C&G has provided copies of its contact notes from 
around the time the new product was applied to the account. There  is an entry  for 11 July 
2007 and the notes  say quotes  to customer and advised cust non-refundable fee of 699. 
There is a further contact note for 13 July 2007,  which states CONV REQ, 6.23 FIXED FOR 
2 YRS FEE 699. This information supports that Mr and Mrs B were  aware  a new product 
was being arranged and there would be a charge.
So based  on this I think the three-year part of the rule started in July 2007.  The contents of 
the letter and telephone  notes ought  reasonably to have made Mr and Mrs B aware of cause 
for complaint. 
Ref: DRN90171605To summarise, I think Mr and Mrs B ought  to have been aware they had cause for complaint  
in July 2007  meaning  they would need  to complain by July 2010.  As three years from July 
2007 doesnt extend the six year time limit, Mr and Mrs Bs overall time to complain expired 
in July 2013. Their complaint wasnt made until March  2018, outside of the time limits that 
apply.
Finally, Im allowed to investigate complaints made  outside the time limits where  Im satisfied 
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances. But Mr 
and Mrs B havent told us about any potential exceptional circumstances explaining the 
delay. So based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that exceptional circumstances dont 
apply in this case. If Mr and Mrs B do have any other information  they would like me to 
consider, they should send it in response  to this provisional decision.   
So this means  I cant  consider this part of the complaint further. I do acknowledge  Mr and 
Mrs B have made further comments  about there not being a written acceptance of the 
product change. This includes the concerns  they raised about C&G  providing contradictory 
information about the availability of a signed  acceptance. It also includes the problems they 
describe in trying to get information relating  to a telephone call made in April 2018. As these 
concerns clearly stem  from the complaint about  the product  change  in July 2007, the same 
time limits apply. It isnt a case of ignoring  what Mr and Mrs B have  said,  but instead that I 
dont have the power to comment or consider these complaint points because  this part of the 
complaint is made of time.  
Mr and Mrs B have  also raised concerns about the way C&G have dealt with them whilst 
trying to get information  and explanation  of their complaint points.  As I mentioned  earlier,  I 
can see that M and Mrs B were frustrated when they didnt receive information they asked 
for. I also acknowledge that C&G havent answered every point Mr and Mrs B asked  them to. 
But I dont think this means C&G has treated  them unfairly. I am satisfied that C&G 
answered the crux of the complaint in its responses and Mr and Mrs B were given the 
opportunity to refer their complaint  to service for an independent review. So Im not currently 
persuaded C&G need to do anything  more in this respect.   
I invited both parties to respond.  C&G made no further comments. Mr and Mrs B did respond 
and made  further  comments on my provisional  decision. In summary, they said:
They were told in a call in November 2017 that their address had been changed by a 
system migration. C&G not sending a copy of November  2017 call has caused  a 
large and expensive waste of time. Even  though C&G said the issue was due to 
migration the ombudsman is not taking  that as an answer.
They sent letters to C&G to show  proof they had received correspondence at their 
home address  but they have since been told these  letters cant  be found.
They would like C&G to provide copies of mortgage statements from 2009, as they 
believe these will show correspondence  coming  to their home address. 
They didnt agree to a product switch  in 2007.  They were living at their current 
address and no quotes were  provided.  They dont understand  why there is no signed  
documentation or credit search  needed  for the rate change.  They question why a 
member of Lloyds staff told them in a telephone call on the 6 April 2018 that there 
was a signed documentation  from 2007.  
Ref: DRN90171606They didnt notice  they had stopped receiving statements in 2011 from C&G due to 
exceptional circumstances.  They said they would rather  not provide all the details but 
said their daughter had been  very ill. Because  of this the buy to let property wasnt at 
the forefront of their minds.
 
They raised a complaint  about information  they were given in a telephone 
conversation on 6th April 2018   so this complaint  has been made in time. They 
submitted a complaint form about the information discussed in this call and it hasnt 
been investigated by the ombudsman service. 
Mr and Mrs B also provided further copies  of correspondence they had previously sent to 
this service  these are:
A complaint form relating to misinformation  given by Lloyds during telephone call in 
April 2018.
Emails from Mr B sent to this service on 21 February  and 11 and 13 March  2019.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points Mr and Mrs B made in response to my provisional  
decisions, but Im not persuaded to change my findings. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Bs comments about the November 2007 call where a data 
migration error was discussed.  As I explained,  this call was located and shared with Mr and 
Mrs B and they were  given the opportunity to comment. During the call a migration error was 
suggested as a reason for the BTL address being held on the system.  However,  the context 
of the conversation is important to consider when deciding whether C&G  has made an error  
in changing the address on the account.  I think its clear the call handler was offering Mr B a 
potential explanation for the address on the system being different to what he expected.  I 
dont find that this conversation is a conclusive admission that a migration error  caused the 
address to change  on the system.  Put simply, I think there is a difference between offering a 
suggestion and admitting  a fault. For this reason,  I dont think  this call supports that C&G 
incorrectly changed the correspondence  address on the account.  
Mr and Mrs B say they sent a number of letters to C&G, dated from 2009, to show  they had 
received correspondence relating to the BTL mortgage at their home address. They  say 
C&G now says that the letters never  existed.  Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs B havent been able 
to provide copies  of the letters they sent.  This means it is very difficult  to know exactly what  
information was in these letters. I did ask Mr and Mrs B to send me anything else they had to 
show that they had received correspondence  about  their BTL mortgage at their home 
address before 2017. This would allow me to establish if there is evidence to support that the 
correspondence address has been changed. I havent received anything  further  from them. I 
explained in my provisional decision  that I wasnt persuaded that the previous pictures they 
had sent supported that the address  had been changed. I have carefully  considered the 
further points  made by Mr and Mrs B on this subject but they dont change  my thinking.  
Ref: DRN90171607Mr and Mrs B have  requested that C& G send them statements from 2009. Unfortunately,  
due to the time that has passed  C&G  says it no longer holds statements before January 
2011. This means they cannot provide any further  statements.  I accept  it would be beneficial 
to have the full statement history to see how they were all addressed. But the fact there  
arent statements before 2011 isnt enough  for me to say that C&G made an error  and 
changed the correspondence address on the account. I understand Mr and Mrs B feel 
evidence is being  withheld  but I havent  seen anything to suggest  this is the case.  So again, I 
havent found reason to change my thinking  on this point. 
Mr and Mrs B have  reiterated that they didnt agree to the mortgage product switch  in July 
2007. They  also raised concerns about  the lack of a signed agreement  despite being told in 
a conversation in April 2018 that there was a signed document. I explained  in my provisional 
decision that this part of the complaint had been made outside of the time limit rules that 
apply to this service. I dont think Mr and Mrs B have raised  anything  new that would make 
me think the complaint was made in time. 
Ive considered the concerns Mr and Mrs B raised about the April 2018 and time limits. They 
say as the call happened  within six years of them making their complaint, it was made in 
time. However, when  considering the rules I need  to be clear about the complaint event and 
the date of that event. Ive looked at the complaint form Mr and Mrs B completed. This 
explains their concerns are about:
Changing the product and adding  a charge in July 2007: Lloyds bank have added a £699 
charge to the mortgage account  in 2007  saying  we changed the product, and they have 
signed paperwork relating to this along  with telephone calls of agreement  to the change. It 
was a call on the 6th April 2018  in which Lloyds bank said they have signed paperwork.
They also raise further concerns  about  getting  a copy  of the signed paperwork, a transcript 
of the April 2018 call and customer service relating to this. Having considered all of these 
points carefully, Im satisfied that these concerns all result from the same  event   that is the 
product change, which occurred in July 2007. So for the reasons explained  in my provisional 
decision, any complaint points  that result from the July 2007 product change  arent  things I 
can look into as theyve  been made  out of time. 
Im allowed  to investigate  complaints  made  outside  the time limits  if either C&G consents  to 
this, which  it hasnt, or if Im satisfied they are as a result of exceptional circumstances. Mr 
and Mrs B have provided details about their daughters health that meant the BTL mortgage 
wasnt at the forefront of their minds. I have a great  deal of sympathy  for them  and I have no 
reason to doubt what theyve said. But Im also conscious that theyve told us they were 
contacting Lloyds about other matters (for example when they received correspondence for 
another customer)  during  the time period they had to raise their complaint. So Im satisfied 
that overall they could have made their complaint within the time limit had they intended to 
do so. As Im not persuaded exceptional  circumstances  apply, Im afraid this isnt a 
complaint we can consider. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly about this complaint. But as Ive found this 
part of their complaint  was made  too late, it isnt something our rules allow us to investigate.  
Ive re-read the emails  that Mr B sent to this service in February and March  2019. I can 
confirm I did consider these in reaching  my provisional decision. I appreciate  that Mr and 
Mrs B have requested  answers to specific questions but Ive concentrated on the crux of this 
Ref: DRN90171608complaint. And for any points relating to the product change in 2007   as Ive explained - Im 
unable to comment on these as this complaint falls outside of our time limits. 
For the reason  Ive explained above and those in my provisional decision,  I dont uphold Mr 
and Mrs Bs complaint  about the address held on their BTL mortgage account. I also think  
that their complaint  about the product change on their BTL mortgage in 2007  was made out 
of time.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9017160