K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he financed through an agreement with FirstRand  Bank Limited, 
trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) was mis-sold  to him.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in April 2019. He financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with MotoNovo. The car was first registered in June 2015.
Mr S says that he told the dealership he wanted a car that met the ultra-low  emissions 
standard because  he lives in London  and would be using the car in the Ultra Low Emissions 
Zone (ULEZ).
He says he wasnt able to check the emission standard  himself  so he relied  on what the 
dealership told him. He was assured when they confirmed the car did meet the emissions 
standard but was disappointed later to find the car didnt meet  the ULEZ  standard.  He also 
noticed a crack in the windscreen. 
So he contacted the dealership and MotoNovo and he told them  he wanted to return the car 
as it had been mis-sold  to him.
MotoNovo refused to accept the car back. They said hed had a week  to check  whether the 
car met the standard before he took receipt  of it and the chip on the dealership had 
attempted to repair the chipped windscreen  before  Mr S took receipt of the car.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. She 
listened to the phone call that Mr S had with the dealership before he visited  them to look at 
the car. She noted  that the first question he asked was about  whether the car met the Ultra  
Low Emissions standard and that the sales agent  had confirmed  it did. So she thought the 
car had been  mis-sold as a false  statement  had been made that had clearly  induced Mr S to 
sign up for the deal.  She didnt think he would have  done  if hed realised the car didnt 
comply to the standard. 
She went on to consider  the cracked  windscreen. She noted that the MOT had identified a 
crack and that it had been fixed prior to supply. But she also noted  that Mr S had provided a 
photograph of the crack so she was persuaded it was still present. She didnt think  the crack 
was evidence that the dealership had misrepresented  the car to Mr S as she noted  there  
was evidence it was fixed. Overall,  she thought  there was sufficient evidence  the car had 
been mis-sold because  Mr S had been told it met the ULEZ  standard. She therefore 
suggested MotoNovo  should terminate the finance agreement and refund Mr Ss deposit and 
the payments  hed made towards his agreement. She thought  it was clear Mr S had been 
inconvenienced by these matters and she therefore suggested that MotoNovo  pay him £100  
to compensate him for his experiences.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigators  opinion. They  listened  to the call the 
investigator had and they didnt think the sales agent had provided false  information.  They  
said Mr S had asked whether the car met auto emissions not ULEZ  emissions.  And they 
explained that as the car had passed a recent MOT, where its emissions  were  checked, the 
sales agent had provided correct information.  So they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN97597722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint MotoNovo so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  
misrepresented. So if Mr S was told something that was inaccurate and that led him to 
proceed with the deal where he otherwise wouldnt have. Then Id think  MotoNovo had done 
something wrong and Id ask them to take further action.
This is a finely balanced case. Ive listened to the telephone call Mr S had with the 
dealership and I agree that he asked  I hope it complies  with auto emissions  and that he 
didnt specifically ask about Ultra Low Emissions compliance.
He arranged to come and view the car and says he discussed the emissions in more  detail 
then. I think thats likely, but unfortunately, we dont  have any records  of those 
conversations.
So Ive thought about what  I think was most  likely to have happened.
I can see that Mr S lives just outside  the ULEZ and I can understand that hed be interested 
in a car that met the requisite standard. He told the agent on the phone  call that he was 
travelling from London  and it was clear  that emissions were important to him as it was the 
first question he asked. It was an issue that therefore seemed more important than even the 
price of the vehicle. So I think  its reasonable to suggest the agent should, and would have 
wanted to, clarify that. I think its therefore  likely a further conversation  would have taken 
place about emissions standards  when  Mr S visited the dealership later that day and I think  
its likely  the sales agent would have been  asked to clarify whether the car complied to the 
requisite ULEZ standard as Mr S suggests.  It did, after all, appear to be his prime concern.
Mr S asked about returning his car very early on; after only a few days. Ive reviewed 
MotoNovos call records and can see the first reason he gave was that the car didnt meet  
the ULEZ standard. Mr Ss concerns about  emissions standards  in his initial  phone  call are 
therefore consistent with the reason he wanted  to return  the car. At this point, and after only 
a few days of ownership, I think it would  have been  fair for MotoNovo to take his word  for it 
and allow  him to return the car and terminate  his deal with them.  I think  there was sufficient 
evidence to suggest hed been misled. Whilst the agent didnt  respond  to a question  about 
Ref: DRN97597723ultra low emissions compliance he did, I think its fair to say, give little consideration to the 
question Mr S asked him about auto emissions. He simply  said yes it does and I think this 
was likely to give Mr S a false impression. It needed further clarification and the sales  agent 
was probably better placed to advise Mr S on the different emissions standards he may need 
to consider in London.
So I think a false statement was probably  made.  Mr S asked about emissions from the 
outset and his reason  for returning  the car was also about its failure  to meet  ultra low 
emissions standards. So I think if he wasnt provided  with inaccurate information he would 
not have proceeded with the deal.
In those circumstances I think it would now be fair for MotoNovo to take the car back; 
terminate the finance  deal and refund  both the deposit and all finance instalments Mr S has 
paid to them. Its only fair that MotoNovo  should  be allowed to make  a deduction for fair use 
but Mr S has explained that hes only driven  the vehicle 100 miles. Ive looked  at the 
travelling distance  from Mr Ss home to the dealership and it seems  clear that most, if not all, 
of these miles will have been completed  when collecting  the car. So Im not suggesting 
MotoNovo recoup any of the instalments.
I think its clear  Mr S has been inconvenienced by these matters.  Hes had to raise a 
complaint when I think this could have been resolved much earlier.  In the circumstances, Id 
therefore agree with the investigator  that MotoNovo should compensate  him for this and I 
think £100 is about right.
Mr S also complained about a crack  on the windscreen when he collected the car. It seems 
the dealership  had attempted  a repair so I dont think  this was an example of mis-selling.  But 
MotoNovo are responsible for the quality of the car at the point its supplied  to Mr S and he 
had a short  term right to reject the vehicle if anything was wrong with it within the first 14 
days. Thats another reason why Mr S should  be allowed to return the vehicle, even if Im 
wrong about the mis-selling.
Ref: DRN97597724my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to:
terminate the finance  agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund  all of the finance instalments hes paid to them and add 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund  Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
pay Mr S £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit  file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9759772