K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which Mr F 
says was mis-sold to him in 2003. Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) is responsible  for the sale 
so Ill refer mainly to it.
The policy in question  covered Mr F in the event of him being unable  to work. It cost £12.14 
per month and wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £406 in the event of a successful  claim.  
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this case and provided Mr F with a view that it shouldnt  
be upheld. However  Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
I can see Mr F feels strongly  about his complaint so Id like to begin by assuring him that 
Ive looked very thoroughly at his case. Im very grateful for the time thats been taken by 
him in explaining things  and I dont doubt  that his recollections are honest and genuine.
However, looking at Mr Fs original mortgage  application form from 2003,  I see there was a 
section about  MPPI  on it. I accept  the form could have been worded  much better, in respect 
of the MPPI, but nevertheless, I think Mr F would have been  able to understand that the 
policy was something  that was optional rather than something he was required to buy. 
This view is strengthened  further, in my opinion, with a letter  that was sent to Mr F a few 
days after his initial mortgage meeting  in September 2003. We have a copy of the letter and 
it outlined what was discussed in relation to his mortgage application. It made 
recommendations, including one about  him buying this MPPI  policy  to protect him against  
unemployment.
So Im afraid  I cant agree  with Mr F when he says he was made to feel the policy was 
something he had to buy. In short, I agree it was recommended  to him, but thats not the 
same as him being told he had no choice. I think he agreed to the MPPI.
Mr Fs more  substantive complaint point is that he enjoyed good protection from sickness 
and unemployment  with his job. He also says he had savings and other forms of similar 
protection with other insurers.
The policy is question was only in respect  of unemployment. I acknowledge Mr F had a 
good job and had been employed for a long time. But he wasnt immune  from 
unemployment and having looked at the other cover he had in place, it was slightly  different 
in nature to the MPPI cover. So this doesnt  affect the suitability of the MPPI.
Mr F was also eligible for the cover  and he wasnt caught by any of the main exclusions we 
tend to see in these policies. The cost of the policy seems comparable with similar  products 
Ref: DRN97100962I know were marketed at the time and Ive got no evidence to suggest  the premiums  were 
unaffordable for him. 
Looking at Mr Fs financial situation,  I think the mortgage would have been an important  
and long-term commitment for him. Whilst I cant say why Mr F decided he wanted the 
MPPI policy, I can see it was of use to him. If successfully claimed on, it would have paid 
out a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months,  in addition to any means he already had in place  
at the time. 
So I think it was suitable for him and I dont think it being recommended was wrong.
B&B needed  to ensure  it gave Mr F information  that was clear.  From the documents Ive 
been sent from the sale, B&B disclosed the cost of the MPPI to him and I think  it sent Mr F 
information about the policys terms. I cant say it told him everything  it should have done, 
but even if it didnt Im afraid this doesnt  change my decision.
For me to uphold this complaint Id need to think it was more  likely than not Mr F didnt 
properly consent  to the MPPI or that there were serious flaws in the sale.  I simply dont 
have that evidence. The documents from the time suggest the most likely scenario is that 
he agreed to the cover  because it was something he wanted to have.
Finally, I know  that Mr F feels that because B&B agreed another  policy  it sold to him should  
be paid back,  this one should  too. I understand that logic but that policy covered different 
things and had different  features. Ive looked  at the unemployment policy he bought and I 
dont think this was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint or direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9710096