K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Miss J says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss J didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ive seen 
a copy of the application form Miss J completed. This shows  Miss J was given two 
equally clear options to take or refuse PPI. I can see that Miss J chose  the option to take 
PPI.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss J so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss J got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
And it would  have paid out in addition to her employee sick pay, and for a longer period 
of time. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss J because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One got a high level of commission  and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Miss J about that. Because 
Capital One didnt tell Miss J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss J has said. But these points dont change my decision for 
the reasons Ive already  set out.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss J.
Ref: DRN95086922But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss J any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508692