K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy with Lloyds Bank  Plcs  decision to not refund £400 she lost as part of a 
scam.
background
Miss K purchased an iPhone  online on 28 March 2019 and sent payment via bank transfer to 
the account details provided by the seller.
When the iPhone didnt arrive Miss K realised shed fallen victim to a scam. She contacted  
Lloyds on 5 April 2019 to report the fraud and to see what it could do to help get her money 
back.
Lloyds contacted the receiving bank on 9 April 2019  and asked if any funds  could be 
returned. But all the money had been  paid away on the day it had been received. And so, 
Lloyds told Miss K that it couldn't do anything further to help.  
Lloyds answered  Miss Ks complaint by explaining that shed authorised the payment and so 
it had acted on her instructions. It said as there was no money left in the receiving bank 
account it couldnt return any of the lost money  to her.
Miss K was unhappy  with Lloyds response  and so brought her complaint to our service.  One 
of our adjudicators considered the case and thought Lloyds had acted fairly  and reasonably 
in the circumstances. He therefore  made  no recommendations against Lloyds.
Miss K remained unsatisfied. She let us know about her difficult financial position and wider 
circumstances. She also made  clear  she was unhappy with the receiving banks actions. 
She asked  for her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
I am sorry  to hear of whats happened  to Miss K. Losing money to a fraudster in this way is 
extremely cruel  and distressing. I can see why she feels so strongly  that she should get her 
money back from her bank. And its clear the loss put her in a difficult position with her 
finances when  she needs to provide for her family. 
Ive considered all Lloyds did, and ought  to have done, with the appropriate rules and 
guidance in mind. I find its actions have been fair and reasonable. I think  it has acted fairly 
and reasonably in releasing the funds  from her account when Miss K asked it to. And its 
attempts to recover the funds would never have led to the money  being  recovered.  So I cant  
fairly say it should now refund Miss K. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
Ref: DRN94892292and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
- the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer  if it makes  a payment in
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
- regulated  firms like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. This 
means that, particularly  with the increase of sophisticated fraud  and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether,  to help protect  customers  from the 
possibility of financial harm.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  in its
dealings with Miss K when she transferred  the £400  to a fraudster and when she reported 
the fraud,  or whether it should have done more than it did.
Miss K acknowledges that she did authorise the payment and intended  to send the money, 
albeit she was unaware of the nature of what was happening at the time and that she was 
falling victim to a scam. But the bank did receive a genuine instruction from her to make a 
payment and so it was right to process the transaction.
Lloyds should,  as a matter of good industry  practice,  be on the lookout for fraud. And that will 
include monitoring transactions on a customers account and looking for unusual  activity 
which might  indicate  a customer is falling victim  to a scam. If it sees  that something looks  as 
though it could be wrong, it should step in.
Ive considered whether the £400 payment represented a particularly unusual  transaction for 
Miss K and I dont think it did. There are similarly  sized payments in the months prior to the 
Ref: DRN94892293transaction, including transfers of £300 and £100.  And the amount itself, whilst still a lot of 
money to lose in such a cruel way, isnt a particularly large amount when considering the day 
to day transactions  processed by Lloyds and how reasonable it would be for them  to check  
payments of such value  when there  were no indications of possible financial harm.  And so I 
dont think it ought  to have stepped in to question  the payment at the time.
Banks have a responsibility to help customers when they report  that theyve been victim to 
scam. They should try to recover  the customers funds by getting in touch with the receiving 
bank and they should do so quickly, for the best chance of recovery.
In this case, Lloyds  appears to have contacted the receiving bank four days after the scam 
was reported.  I consider  that to be too long. The relevant industry  guidance says contact 
should be made immediately. There isnt a specific timeframe  given, but I dont consider four 
days could be considered immediate. Lloyds should  have contacted the receiving bank 
sooner. However,  this doesnt lead to a finding  that Lloyds ought to now refund, because  of 
the delay.
Thats because the receiving bank have confirmed  that the money  was removed from the 
account the same day. And so, even if Lloyds had contacted  the receiving bank really 
quickly after scam was reported, there wouldnt have  been funds left to recover.
Miss K has mentioned pursuing  a complaint  against the receiving bank and that is something 
she can still look to do, though I make  no comment or finding on the likely success of such a 
complaint or whether  it could be considered by this service. That would require a separate 
investigation, first by the bank and then possibly by us. But here,  Im not persuaded Lloyds 
should refund Miss K.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9489229