K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way that CIS General Insurance Limited dealt with their 
home insurance claim for damage  to their property following a flood. They are particularly 
unhappy that they havent got a set of guarantees for the work.
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim to CIS in February 2014 following his property being  flooded.  
CIS accepted the claim and carried out repairs. Mr and Mrs C were  unhappy  with the way 
the repairs were carried  out. They made a complaint and CIS identified three main snagging 
issues in its final response  letter of 26 February 2016. It recognised the difficulties caused  
and paid £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs C. Following this Mr and Mrs C remained 
dissatisfied and drew up a more extensive snagging list and complained  about  the way the 
claim had been  handled.  CIS again  addressed the issues and in July 2017 paid to 
Mr and Mrs C a further £500 compensation. Mr and Mrs C still had further  issues  particularly 
concerning the lack of guarantees for various parts of the repairs.
On referral to this service  our investigator  addressed the outstanding issues  and said that 
she thought the payment of £500  was reasonable compensation. She didnt  think  CIS could 
be asked to do anything  further.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to first of all apologise to Mr and Mrs C for the length of time it has taken to 
consider this matter.  The file is complex  and runs into several thousand pages, a lot of which 
were difficult  to access. I should also make the point  that we are an alternative dispute 
resolution service set up to resolve  matters informally between  the parties.  I propose to look 
at the matter overall, and whilst I have identified the major points of complaint I wont  go into 
extensive details  for each  one. 
I should make it clear first of all that I cant look at any of the issues dealt with in CISs 
response letter of 26 February 2016.  That should  be regarded as CISs final response  to 
those matters and as Mr and Mrs C didnt bring a complaint about them to us within six 
months I dont have the power to consider the complaints dealt with in that letter.
In respect of Mr and Mrs Cs remaining issues I shall deal with them  under  the various 
headings in their list.
Ref: DRN95269472contract awarded to a company  offering  an inferior guarantee
Mr and Mrs C complained  that if the contract for the refurbishment had been awarded to the 
company who carried  out the strip out it would have been guaranteed for three years rather 
than the one year offered. CIS has explained  that the contract went out to competitive 
tender. There was a difficulty in using the original  contractors  as they might have been 
responsible for an oil spillage which occurred. In any event the works  were carried out in 
2015 so even a three  year guarantee would have  expired by now.
I think CIS acted reasonably here.  I should point out, as I will do for other  issues  in this 
decision, that following an insurance claim, a guarantee offered by a contractor for general 
repairs is usually quite  limited in time, as would be a manufacturers  guarantee of any parts. 
But an insurer has a liability to ensure that a full and effective repair  was carried  out so even 
if a guarantee  has run out and the repairs fail due to poor workmanship for example, then 
CIS would still be potentially liable to put right any such issues.
unsatisfactory brickwork replacement
Mr and Mrs C said there  was mould  growing on the inside where the brickwork was 
replaced. CIS reviewed  this and said that this was likely to be mildew as a result of 
condensation rather than any fault with the work. itself.  As our investigator pointed  out this 
was an expert opinion and as I havent  seen any different expert opinion I think it reasonable 
to accept what CISs expert says.
strapping steel repairs had to be redone
These repairs had to be done  because of cracks that appeared in the brickwork. CIS says 
the works  were redone to provide a better finish. Mr and Mrs C feel this was a major 
reworking and that they have no way of knowing if the work was carried  out correctly. Our 
investigator has supplied  Mr and Mrs C with a copy of the structural  engineers report, and 
CIS has confirmed that the repairs were carried out in line with this. 
In its final response letter  of July 2017,  CIS awarded Mr and Mrs C £100 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by this issue, although  as part of the overall  £500  paid. I wouldnt  
normally break down  sums paid for distress  and inconvenience so Ill deal with the overall 
compensation at the end of this decision. But I note that CIS recognised the difficulty  caused 
and in my view put it right.
floor screed needed to be raised
This had to be done to cover the pipework. Mr and Mrs C have pointed out that it caused 
them extra costs in fitting the carpet. They have shown us an invoice for £70. CIS has 
confirmed it will pay any extra cost involved but that unless it can be shown that the cost of 
the carpets,  including  the £70, exceed  the cash settlement it has already paid for the carpets 
it isnt willing  to offer more. I think that is reasonable. If Mr and Mrs C can show  CIS that they 
have paid more  than the cash  settlement received for the carpets, they should send any 
such evidence to CIS. 
drain survey DVD not supplied
Unfortunately the CCTV recording  is corrupted  and CIS isnt able to supply this. It has 
confirmed through  its surveyor that no defects were reported, and none  have become 
apparent since. While I appreciate that a copy of the recording would have been  helpful, it 
Ref: DRN95269473would be normal to report back  to the customer in the way that CIS has, and I think  thats 
reasonable.
oil tank installation
I understand that Mr and Mrs C are concerned  about the lack of a guarantee for this. 
I understand that it came with a 12 month guarantee on supply. But CIS has been unable to 
find out if there is any further warranty. This doesnt mean it wont be covered if it were to 
break down,  either by CIS if there are any issues with workmanship, for example,  or by the 
supplier if the tank itself is faulty.  CIS still has a liability, as Ive said above.  Whilst 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C would like a supplier  warranty, any direction or order  I make 
has to be enforceable  and given CIS has been unable  so far to get an answer  from the 
suppliers, I cant require CIS to produce  one. 
main shower overflowing
I understand that this issue arose  shortly  after completion of the repairs. The surveyor  says it 
was a latent defect,   meaning  something  that was there before the claim. I understand that 
the issue has been rectified  and that there havent  been any further problems with it. I dont 
propose to require CIS to take any further action.
boiler
I understand that the pump broke  on the boiler CIS had installed. Mr and Mrs C say they 
werent able to claim under the manufacturers guarantee as they werent given the 
paperwork. I dont  think this would have prevented them claiming. And the issue  appears to 
have been that they were unable to show  it had been serviced, so the guarantee wouldnt 
have covered any claim. While I understand that Mr and Mrs C were concerned about 
invalidating the warranty, I cant see that this would have prevented them  having the boiler 
serviced. This is a standard  requirement of most guarantees.  I appreciate that it would have 
been annoying not to be given a warranty document, but I dont think that the lack of this 
would have prevented Mr and Mrs C from claiming under it.
overall
CIS has paid Mr and Mrs C £500 for the various  issues to do with the work as Ive set out. 
Considering that I am only looking at the issues dealt  with in the July 2017  letter  I think the 
payment is reasonable. Mr and Mrs C have explained that they want a comprehensive set of 
guarantees. As Ive explained  I dont  think thats  possible and I cant  order CIS to obtain 
something thats not within  its power to do. Ive set out what  the various  protections 
Mr and Mrs C have in respect of the work  carried out and they have received the various 
reports on the structural and environmental issues. So I wont require  CIS to do anything  
further.
Ref: DRN95269474my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9526947