K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  that Vanquis Bank  Limited  rejected her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section  75) when she disputed  the amount paid for a carpet.
background
In September  2017 Mrs T purchased a carpet using her Vanquis  credit card.
In the weeks following  purchase Mrs T noticed  that the carpet had lost its fluffiness and was 
showing signs of wear. She complained to the carpet shop and obtained an independent 
inspection.
The inspection report concluded  that there were no manufacturing faults with the carpet but 
that it was showing  some flattening which the report said was to be expected  with this type 
of carpet.
Mrs T wasnt able to resolve her complaint  with the carpet shop so she raised a section 75 
dispute with Vanquis. Vanquis  rejected the claim and said there  had been no breach of 
contract or misrepresentation of the goods.
Mrs T wasnt happy with the response  she received from Vanquis so she complained to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator  said that a section 75 
claim couldnt succeed because there was no evidence that there  had been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Mrs T didnt  agree. She felt that there  had been a misrepresentation because  she had asked 
the carpet shop for a carpet which kept its fluffiness.   She said she hadnt  been made aware  
by the salesperson that the carpet  would show signs of wear  within  a short time. Mrs T also 
said that the carpet which was delivered to her was different to the carpet she had selected 
in the carpet  shop.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Because Mrs Ts transaction with the carpet shop was financed  by credit  supplied to her by 
Vanquis, section  75 gives  Mrs T an equal  right to claim against  Vanquis  or the carpet  shop 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact which induces the customer to go ahead  
with the contract.
Mrs T says that her decision to purchase  the carpet  was influenced by the fact that the 
salesperson recommended the carpet having been made aware of her specific  requirements 
for a carpet which would retain its fluffiness and which matched her existing carpet. Mrs T 
Ref: DRN96287472says that she showed  the salesperson some photos of her existing carpet and that the 
salesperson recommended the carpet to her as being the closest match.
Ive considered whether the salesperson made an untrue statement of fact when he told 
Mrs T that the carpet  was the closet match. But I dont think the salesperson was making a 
representation here  instead, he was expressing  his opinion that this was the carpet  from 
the selection available in the shop which most closely met Mrs Ts requirements.
Theres no evidence that the salesperson made any particular  representations as to the type 
of material or the carpets fluffiness. Nor is there  any evidence that the salesperson  told 
Mrs T that the carpet  would match her existing carpet.
Based on the available information about  Mrs Ts requirements and what the salesperson 
said, Im unable to say that the salesperson said something which wasnt true. So I cant  
conclude that there  has been a misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract
A breach of contract  is where the supplier  fails to do what the contract says it must.
Mrs T has said that the carpet which was delivered to her was not the same  as the carpet  
which she selected in the carpet shop. She hasnt explained specifically how the carpet  
which was delivered  to her differed from the carpet  which she selected  in store. I havent 
been provided with any evidence to show that the carpet which  was delivered to Mrs T was 
different in any way to the carpet which she selected  in store.  Because  of this, Im unable  to 
conclude that Mrs T didnt receive the carpet which she selected in store.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im unable  to conclude that there has 
been a misrepresentation or a breach  of contract. Therefore I dont  think Vanquis has done 
anything wrong  in rejecting the section  75 claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9628747