K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
Mr H applied for a Barclaycard by post in 1998  and bought a PPI policy  at the same  time.
He says he wasnt told about the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr H disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt know about the PPI, which suggests he doesnt think he agreed to it. But 
I think he did. Ive seen  a copy  of the postal  credit card application Mr H completed and 
signed. It has a section about  PPI, with yes or no options for an applicant  to tick, 
depending on whether or not they want the PPI. Mr Hs form has been  ticked  to say yes to 
PPI. So, at the time, I think  Mr H agreed  to the PPI knowing he didnt  have to  and I dont 
think its surprising, so many years on, that he doesnt remember  doing do.
Because Mr H applied for the card and the PPI by post, I dont think  Barclays  gave him a 
tailored recommendation to buy the cover. So it didnt need to check  if it was right for him in 
his circumstances.  But it did need  to give Mr H enough clear information about  the PPI for 
him to be able to make  that decision himself in an informed  way. 
I think its quite possible Barclays didnt do this  so it probably  didnt make the true cost of 
the PPI clear  to him or tell him about the things the policy didnt cover.  But that doesnt mean 
I should automatically uphold Mr Hs complaint. Instead, I need to think about whether, if 
hed had all the clear information  he shouldve,  hed have made a different decision and not 
gone ahead  with the cover. From  what Mr H says of his circumstances at the time and the 
policy details Ive got, I dont think it wouldve changed his decision. I say this because: 
Mr H was eligible for the PPI. And he wasnt affected by any of the main  things  it 
wouldnt have covered  like known health  issues or unusual  employment 
arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him claiming the full policy  benefit,  if 
hed needed  to.
I think the PPI couldve been of use to Mr H if things  got difficult. He says he didnt 
get any sick pay and had quite limited savings  at the time. And the PPI wouldve 
helped with his card repayments for each successful  unemployment, accident  or 
sickness claim he made  for up to 12 months.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think he couldnt afford  the cover.
Ref: DRN91993072So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. But Barclays has paid back  some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9199307