K820x#14complaint
Mr U and Mrs H complained about their Islamic  mortgage with HSBC  UK Bank  Plc. They  
said that:
-HSBC should  have told them when it introduced a new type of Islamic mortgage,  the 
Diminishing Musharaka. They said this would have  been  cheaper than their Ijarah 
mortgage; and
-HSBC had overcharged them for buildings  insurance.
background
Mr U and Mrs H met HSBC in January 2006,  about  taking  out an Islamic mortgage. At the 
time, the only type of Islamic  mortgage which HSBC offered was an Ijarah one. This type of 
mortgage meant Mr U and Mrs H couldnt  arrange  their own buildings  insurance, so theyd  
have to pay for buildings insurance each month with their monthly payment. Their mortgage 
completed on 24 March  2006.
Over the years, Mr U and Mrs H made  two lump sum payments off the balance  of their 
mortgage. During a conversation with HSBC  around the time they made  the second 
payment, Mrs H found out that HSBC offered also a Diminishing  Musharaka type of 
mortgage. The way this type of mortgage was set up meant they wouldnt have to have 
HSBCs buildings insurance, but could choose  their own.
Mrs H complained. She said shed much  rather have been arranging  her own building 
insurance because  she believed it was much more  expensive than she could have arranged  
herself. She wanted  to know why she hadnt  received any correspondence  about the 
alternative when  it became available, so she could decide whether to change.
HSBCs final response in January 2019  said that it had introduced  the Diminishing 
Musharaka type of mortgage in 2006.  But when  Mr U and Mrs H had applied, only the Ijarah 
one had been available. It said it was the customers responsibility to ensure that the product 
they had was right for them, and to check the market for any other  products. 
Mr U and Mrs H werent  satisfied and complained to this service. They said HSBC  didnt 
understand that it had charged them thousands of pounds for buildings  insurance that they 
could have arranged  much more cheaply themselves.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr U and Mrs Hs complaint. She noted  that HSBC  had 
introduced the alternative product on 17 March 2006, a few days  before Mr U and Mrs Hs 
application completed. It wasnt clear whether or not HSBC had written  to existing customers 
about the new product, but if it had done,  this wouldnt have included Mr U and Mrs H 
because their mortgage hadnt  completed.  But HSBCs  adviser in January  2006 had told 
Mr U and Mrs H about the products that were available at the time. It wasnt  HSBCs  
responsibility to notify Mr U and Mrs H of any new products after that advice. And the 
adjudicator added that there was also nothing to suggest that the other product would have 
been cheaper or more suitable  for Mr U and Mrs H.
Mr U and Mrs H werent  satisfied. They  said they believed the reason HSBC didnt contact 
customers was that it would lose the extortionate amount  of money  it charged  for buildings 
insurance. And they said the Diminishing Musharaka type of mortgage would definitely  have 
Ref: DRN99985972been cheaper, because  theyd previously had a repayment mortgage  with a different lender  
and had been able to arrange their own buildings insurance more cheaply.  They  said theyd 
also been able to get buildings insurance  much more cheaply themselves, after theyd paid 
off their HSBC mortgage in February  2019.
At this point, Mr U and Mrs H raised  a new, extra complaint. They  said that an annual  
statement to March 2018 showed  total charges including buildings insurance of £1,181.60. 
They wanted  to know what other  charges there had been, and whether the insurer had 
received the whole amount of buildings insurance, or whether HSBC had profited from it.
HSBC said that the full £1,181.60 had been for buildings insurance, not other  charges. And it 
had passed on the full amount to the insurer. It also provided a copy of a letter  which it had 
sent to Mr U and Mrs H on 3 July 2017 which had advised them about an increase to the 
monthly insurance premium. 
The adjudicator told Mr U and Mrs H that she didnt believe HSBC had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by increasing  the premium. This was a commercial decision which the bank 
was allowed to take.
Mr U and Mrs H werent  satisfied. They  said that their property had been valued at £87,500  
in 2006, so the premium should  have  been  £304.80  a year,  according to the Home Finance 
Information sheet  theyd been  given.  They said that in March  2007 theyd been charged 
£594.71 so they asked  what  else HSBC  was charging them  for. Mr U and Mrs H noted that 
the banks sum insured had been £120,000 in 2006, but they said that this would still have 
meant the premium should have been £380.40 a year, so theyd still been charged  £214.31  
extra. They also gave the figures for a subsequent review, where they said theyd also been  
charged extra. Mr U and Mrs H said they wanted  both parts of their complaint reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether HSBC should have told Mr U and Mrs H when it introduced  the Diminishing 
Musharaka mortgage
Mr U and Mrs H met HSBC in January 2006,  to discuss transferring their repayment 
mortgage with another  lender, to an Islamic mortgage  with HSBC. I accept that at that time, 
the only Islamic mortgage which HSBC offered was the Ijarah type of mortgage. So I find 
that HSBCs advisor at the time couldnt have offered them the Diminishing Musharaka  
mortgage.
HSBCs responsibility was limited  to telling Mr U and Mrs H about the products it had 
available at the time the advice was given. From that point on, it was up to Mr U and Mrs H 
to keep themselves  up to date about  what mortgages were offered  elsewhere, either  by 
HSBC or other lenders.  HSBC didnt have to notify  Mr U and Mrs H about new products it 
launched.
So I find that HSBC  did nothing wrong by not getting in touch  with Mr U and Mrs H when it 
launched the Diminishing Musharaka  type of mortgage.
Ref: DRN99985973I would also comment that had Mr U and Mrs H become aware  of the new mortgage product 
HSBC was offering  before  they completed on their existing  application,  it wouldnt have been  
a case of being able to simply  swap  mortgage  types  at that stage. They would have needed  
to cancel their existing application  and start a new one from scratch for the new type of 
mortgage. There would have been no guarantee the mortgage would have been granted, or 
if it was, when it would have completed. 
Selection of insurer for buildings  insurance policy
Mr U and Mrs H have said they would  have been  able to buy buildings  insurance at a 
cheaper price if theyd been  able to choose their own policy, rather than taking the one 
HSBC selected.  That may be the case,  but with the type of mortgage  Mr U and Mrs H had, 
the property belonged to HSBC until they had paid HSBC the amount of the purchase price. 
As the property owner and the party responsible  for ensuring the property was adequately 
insured, it wasnt unreasonable for HSBC  to choose  an insurance policy it was satisfied 
provided the right cover  for the property it owned.  
I have noted Mr U and Mrs Hs comments that they have been able to find cheaper 
insurance since they have been  arranging it for themselves. However, that doesnt make the 
policy HSBC arranged  for itself inappropriate.
Amounts paid for buildings insurance
Mr U and Mrs H first complained about the amount they paid in the year to March 2018  when 
they replied to the adjudicators view about  the Diminishing Musharaka  mortgage, in March  
2019. According to the rules governing this service, they should have complained first about 
this to HSBC, as we can only consider a complaint which a bank has had a chance to 
answer and issue  a final response. But HSBC was willing  to answer  the point and allow  this 
service immediately to consider the issue alongside the earlier part of Mr U and Mrs Hs 
complaint. It provided us with a spreadsheet showing  records  for the Ijarah buildings  
insurance, and for the instalment payment. It explained that the term total charges 
(including buildings insurance) on Mr U and Mrs Hs statement was a standard  term, that 
could incorporate any charges such as ground rent or service charge, but there hadnt been 
either of these on Mr U and Mrs Hs property. I have checked  the statement provided,  and 
there are no records of any other charges, as Mr U and Mrs H believe.
Mr U and Mrs H first complained about what they paid in 2006  and 2007  in their further 
response to the adjudicator in May 2019. Again  HSBC was willing  to answer the issue and 
allow us to incorporate  it into the existing complaint. It pointed out that the information  sheet 
which Mr U and Mrs H had relied  on, only provided a guide. It said: Any  insurance  premium 
quoted is indicative... premiums  will change depending on the postcode of the property being 
purchased and insurance amount following valuation.
I note that Mr U and Mrs Hs first argument was that their valuation  in 2006 had been 
£87,500 so their buildings insurance premium should have been based on that figure. But 
buildings insurance  figures are based on projected  rebuild  costs in the event of total loss, not 
on valuation. Mr U and Mrs H went on to say that they still believe they were overcharged, 
even on rebuild costs  for 2006.
This service doesnt provide an accounting service, and in any case financial institutions 
arent required to keep records indefinitely: they usually  keep  them for about six years. So it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to look in detail at the amounts which Mr U and Mrs H were 
Ref: DRN99985974charged, especially the premiums for 13 years  ago. I accept that the information sheet 
clearly stated that premiums shown  were indicative, as insurance premiums  do vary 
according to the insurers assessment of risk. And in any case,  this risk assessment would 
have been carried  out by the insurer, not HSBC.  
I note that HSBC responded to the new issues which Mr U and Mrs H raised  in March and 
May 2019. But Mr U and Mrs H should  be aware  that if they wish to make any further 
complaints about  the detail of their mortgage with HSBC, they will need to write first to the 
bank, and obtain a final response, before raising it with this service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9998597