K820x#14complaint
C Ltd complains that Paragon Bank  Plc unfairly  and unreasonably declined  its mortgage 
application. It wants an apology.
background
C Ltd, a property company, applied for a mortgage  from Paragon  through a broker.  Paragon 
refused as the individual  who owned  C Ltd conducted spread betting with a betting business.  
Paragon felt that this was high risk. C Ltd felt that this was discriminatory  and said that the 
spread betting  was consistently profitable.
C Ltd complained  to Paragon. It said that mortgage applications were subject to a full 
assessment and lenders had the right to decide  to whom to lend and on what basis. Paragon 
confirmed that the mortgage application  had failed  due to the considerable betting 
transactions in the bank statements it had seen. It wasnt  persuaded by C Ltds  appeal.
C Ltd complained  to us. The investigators view was that Paragon  wasnt at fault. It had the 
right to decide whether to give a mortgage  and to consider all financial matters connected to 
C Ltd, including the individual behind the company. The investigator didnt think  that Paragon  
had applied  its lending  policies unfairly  or unreasonably and didnt  uphold  the complaint.
C Ltd disagreed.  It said the spread betting was carried out by its director and was shown in 
his personal bank statements; it didnt think it was relevant  to its application. C Ltd said that 
while Paragon might have  absolute discretion, it should apply it reasonably.  The investigator 
said that Paragon  made  a commercial decision and applied its lending  policies reasonably.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that C Ltd feels that Paragon  has discriminated against  it. But lenders are able 
to assess income streams and exclude those it views as unstable or not secure enough  to 
ensure a loan is affordable. This isnt a breach of the Equality Act 2010  and indeed  ensures 
compliance with a lenders duty to ensure that a loan is affordable. Its also correct that 
lenders are able to use their commercial judgement and can decide to whom  to lend and on 
what basis, provided that they apply its judgement fairly and reasonably.
Paragons lending policies  allow it to exclude income from its consideration. It has an 
absolute discretion. While C Ltd itself wasnt  undertaking  the spread betting, the director 
behind C Ltd was closely linked to its financial stability. His bank statements were provided 
to support C Ltds application and to show rental income. Paragon also had the right to ask 
that individual to be a guarantor of the loan as he was a director. It also considered the 
appeal by the broker, who also said the income was spread betting.
Ref: DRN91678472In essence, this dispute is about  the perception  of spread betting.  Paragon says its high risk. 
I cant say thats an unfair or an unreasonable view, even if an individual  has a good track  
record in spread betting. Just because a view that spread betting  isnt high risk could be 
justified doesnt  mean  Paragon  cant form its own opinion. Other  lenders can take different 
views. Spread  betting is gambling, which by its very nature isnt certain.  I cant  say that 
Paragon unfairly  or unreasonably applied its lending policies or acted wrongly in refusing the 
application of C Ltd due to concerns about  its financial  stability and that of its director upon 
which it was dependent.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C Ltd to accept or reject my decision before 
8 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9167847