K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr G applied for a credit  card in October  2003  by post and following this he was sold the PPI 
during a phone  call in November 2003.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr G disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G says he was sold the PPI by post.  Looking at the information we have and what  we 
know about how Barclays sold PPI at the time it seems Mr G was sent a short application to 
take out the credit card and this was then followed up with a phone call during which the PPI 
shouldve been  discussed. 
When selling  the PPI to Mr G, Barclays shouldve made it clear the policy was optional.  It 
also shouldve got Mr Gs agreement to take it out. Mr G says he never asked for the PPI or 
consented to it.  Barclays  no longer has a recording of the telephone call which  isnt 
surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. Where I have  limited  information about a 
sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the information and evidence  I 
have seen.
Barclays has given us a telephone guidance  script  it expected  its representatives to follow  
during these types of calls. And looking at this it prompted the advisor to explain the PPI was 
optional and asked  for agreement  for the policy to be added  to the card.  I havent seen 
anything in Mr Gs case to make  me think this didnt happen when he was sold the PPI.
So I think its more likely  that there wouldve been  a discussion  about the PPI with the 
Barclays representative and Mr G wouldve been given a choice about  it. Given  how long 
ago the policy was sold, I understand why Mr G might no longer remember  this.
Barclays advised Mr G to take out the policy. So it shouldve made sure the policy was right 
for him. Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time the PPI was sold,  I 
think it was. I say this because:
Mr G was eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Gs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Ref: DRN93862382Mr Gs told us he wouldve received some sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer. The PPI couldve been of use to Mr G as it wouldve paid 10% of the 
outstanding balance on the card for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work due to illness  
or if he was made redundant.  This wouldve been on top of any sick pay or 
redundancy pay he wouldve got, meaning he wouldve been able to use this for 
other everyday  living expenses.
Mr G says he had some  savings he couldve used. But the PPI wouldve allowed him 
to keep these  savings intact.
Barclays has told us the PPI wouldve cost Mr G 79p per £100  of his outstanding 
monthly balance. I havent seen anything to suggest  this wasnt  affordable to Mr G.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr G, Barclays also shouldve given him clear  
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not to 
take it out. I dont  know what  steps Barclays took to do this and its possible  some things 
werent explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont  think  clearer  information  
wouldve changed Mr Gs decision.  I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same  
reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
So taking everything into account, including Mr Gs comments, I dont think Mr G lost out as 
a result of anything Barclays mightve  done wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9386238