K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled their 
travel insurance claim.
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
Background
On 1 June 2018 Mrs B went into labour  and gave birth to their baby  12-weeks  early, on the 
first day of their long-weekend in Europe. Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their URV travel 
insurance the following day.
Mrs B was discharged from hospital on 4 June but their baby required a lot of medical 
attention and it wasnt until 30 June that his treating doctors deemed him fit to fly back  to the 
UK. The baby was transferred back to a UK hospital by air ambulance on 24 July, Mrs B 
returned with him and Mr B had flown home the day before.
Mr and Mrs B initially had a lot of concerns about the way their claim had been  handled 
which included URVs refusal  to pay some of the costs theyd incurred while waiting for their 
baby to be repatriated  to the UK. And, unhappy with URVs  response, they referred a 
complaint to this service.  Since then they seem to have accepted our investigators opinion  
about what costs  and losses URV should and shouldnt be liable to cover. What remains in 
dispute is whether  URV provided an acceptable level of service overall.
Our investigator thought URV couldve  done  more at various points in time to expedite 
repatriation and keep  Mr and Mrs B updated  along  the way. URV had already offered £100 
compensation but our investigator  thought £600 was appropriate  given the concerns shed 
highlighted. Mr and Mrs B accepted this recommendation  but URV did not. It said,  in 
summary, that:
Its relationship with Mr and Mrs B broke down which  made it difficult  to manage 
communication during the repatriation process  and some  of their expectations were 
unreasonable.
The babys welfare was a priority and the service provided in this respect was faultless 
and will have enhanced  and improved his longer term clinical  outcome.
The intention was to transfer the baby back at the safest  and most optimal time and URV 
couldnt be held responsible for some of the delays.
The complaint has been passed  to me to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case   taking 
into account any relevant  law and guidance  and to decide whether URV acted fairly and 
reasonably. The relevant  rules and industry guidance say URV  has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And URV must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers  and treat them fairly. Ive also taken into account that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in their Approach to Consumers  (July 2018) considers the definition of 
Ref: DRN96225322vulnerability as someone  who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible  
to detriment, particularly  when a firm is not acting  with appropriate levels  of care. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs B received  the level of service 
theyre entitled to expect,  especially at a time when they were in a vulnerable situation.  
I say that because:
The babys treating doctors issued a medical report  on 30 June which  said he was fit to 
fly. But it wasnt until 5 July that URVs medical  director reviewed the case  and called Mr 
and Mrs B to discuss the options  for repatriation. Mr and Mrs B confirmed later that day 
they wished to go ahead with an air ambulance transfer. URV  suggests this delay was 
not unreasonable, its not the treating  doctors  opinion that counts and its own medical 
team are ultimately  the best people to judge an individuals fitness to fly. I understand 
any insurer will want to guard against transferring an unstable patient and they may have 
more experience with air transfers  than some treating doctors.  But I dont think URVs 
approach was reasonable in this particular case.  The medical records were detailed  but 
relatively short and I cant see that URV gathered  significant further information about the 
babys condition before it decided whether it agreed he was fit to fly. From what Ive 
seen, URV made one call to the treating doctor and the notes of the call say only that he 
confirmed his opinion  and URV  then explained  the repatriation  process.  So I have some 
difficulty understanding why this stage  of the process couldnt  be completed sooner.  I 
also say this having had regard for the length  of time Mr and Mrs B and the baby had 
already been away  from home; the further steps that needed to take place before the 
repatriation could  actually take place; the fact that the baby needed a shunt which meant 
the hospital needed to know when repatriation was likely in order  to decide whether to fit 
it or whether  it could  wait until after he was repatriated.
It wasnt until 9 July that URV first made contact with the receiving hospital to see if it 
would accept the baby. I think this could  and, in the circumstances, should have been 
done sooner.  It seems, from the phone calls Ive listened to, that URVs medical director  
was well aware of the demand for cots in UK neonatal intensive  care units. So I think it 
would have been prudent to start making enquiries promptly  after receiving the fit to fly 
notice on 30 June.  As it turned out, the receiving hospital confirmed it had a cot available  
on 12 July, just three days after URV first made enquires. I cant know  for sure whether a 
cot wouldve been available if enquiries  had been  made sooner, but I think  thats  a 
possibility which would  likely  have enabled repatriations  to take place sooner.
The receiving hospital confirmed a bed was available  on 12 July. Im pleased to see URV 
contacted Mr and Mrs B promptly to let them know  this and they were  happy to receive 
this information  despite it coming  quite late into the evening.  During  that call URVs 
medical director gave  no guarantees,  but indicated repatriation was likely to take place 
that same week. Yet it wasnt until 16 July  the start of the following week  that URV 
first contacted the air ambulance company for a quote. URV says its necessary to 
undertake further medical assessments once a bed has been confirmed as situations  
can change daily and thats why contact wasnt made immediately  with the air 
ambulance company  in this case. But I think the very fact the babys condition  could  
change daily made it even more important that URV move  things along promptly. 
Moreover, I can see nothing in URVs records which suggest it made  any attempts 
between 12 and 16 July to obtain  additional information about  the babys medical 
condition. And I have some difficulty understanding, if further checks were necessary, 
why URVs medical  director suggested  to Mr and Mrs B that repatriation might  take place 
Ref: DRN96225323that same  week. In the circumstances,  I think URV couldve both moved things along 
quicker and/or better managed Mr and Mrs Bs expectations about likely  timescales  for 
repatriation.
Its apparent Mr and Mrs B asked URV a number  of times to call the hospital. They 
werent always sure why the hospital felt this was necessary so I can see, to an extent,  
why URV  was reluctant at times to make those calls. But, in the circumstances, I dont 
think it was reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to act as a go-between given the 
sensitive nature of this case.  As will often by the case, URVs medical team  had more  
medical knowledge and experience than Mr and Mrs B. And keeping in touch with the 
treating hospital  may have helped to ensure  URV had a good understanding  throughout 
of the babys condition and avoided  some of the delays Ive already mentioned. Also, it 
almost certainly would have given  Mr and Mrs B some reassurance  that their claim was 
being taken seriously  and they were being supported in what  was a highly stressful 
situation and one where they were particularly  vulnerable. I dont think  they did feel they 
were being properly supported and theyve pointed  to several  occasions  when URV 
asked them to confirm  details of the babys current medical state rather  than checking  
this with the hospital. This even happened during a call on 22 July  two days before the 
repatriation took place  when Mr and Mrs B were asked what the plan was with the 
shunt and whether  the baby was still doing well. I find that surprising, not least  because  
URV has told us how important it was for it to keep abreast of the babys conditions while 
awaiting repatriation, given this can change daily. And URV seemed to appreciate that 
the hospital needed to know when repatriation was likely in order  to make an informed 
decision about whether to insert the new shunt  or whether  this could wait until after he 
was repatriated.  
As Ive already  said, URV has already accepted it didnt  always  keep Mr and Mrs B 
updated. And I can see Mr and Mrs B often  had to call to find out what  was going on. 
Having said that I do think, on occasion, they didnt always  allow URV a reasonable 
amount of time to return their calls before phoning again and occasionally made 
unreasonable requests. Sometimes  incorrect information was given  such as that they 
could submit a claim for the costs of the babys clothes. And sometimes  I think  URV  
wasnt sufficiently sensitive to the situation  in which  Mr and Mrs B found themselves. For 
example, one call-handler congratulated Mr B on the birth of his baby and another drew 
an inappropriate, ill-informed comparison relating  to the length of time it might  be until 
repatriation was possible. And sometimes I think URV was just overly vague in its 
explanations. But Ive also taken account  that, in some other respects, URV has taken 
positive steps,  such  as complying with Mr and Mrs B request to stay in an apartment 
rather than in a hotel and waiving the £150 excess.
I agree  with the investigator that URV  has paid an appropriate amount in terms of the costs 
and losses Mr and Mrs B have claimed.  So all that remains for me to consider is how much 
compensation should be paid in recognition of the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B have 
suffered due to the failings Ive discussed  above. In the circumstances, overall, I feel £600 to 
be a fair and reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that Union Reiseversicherung AG should pay £600 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs B.
Ref: DRN96225324Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9622532