K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Emergency Cash Limited,  trading as Wizzcash.com (Wizzcash), irresponsibly 
lent to him. Mr P has said he wasnt managing his finances and if Wizzcash had checked  his 
credit reports it would have seen he had missed loan repayments and gone  into arrears. 
background
This complaint is about four short-term loans Wizzcash provided to Mr P between  February  
and September  2017. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 02/02/2017 28/03/2017 3 £300.00 £147.79
2 03/04/2017 28/06/2017 3 £300.00 £148.09
3 14/07/2017 29/08/2017 3 £300.00 £136.63
4 20/09/2017 28/11/2017 3 £200.00 £87.44
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint in full and thought none  of the loans should have 
been given because of the information shown in his credit report about  his short-term credit  
borrowing history. 
Wizzcash disagreed. It said it had lent responsibly. It told us:
it hadnt agreed to all of the loans Mr P applied for, 
it had carried out sufficient income and expenditure checks, 
Mr P always repaid  his loans on time and 
when the relationship  matured, and it looked  further into Mr Ps financial situation and 
found he wasnt  managing his money  it decided not to re-lend to him. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Wizzcash needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN91538622But certain factors might  point to the fact that Wizzcash  should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Wizzcash was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. And after doing so, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why. 
As our adjudicator explained, the information gathered by Wizzcash when Mr P applied for 
loan one showed he was having problems managing his money. One of the credit reports 
detailed that Mr P had taken more than 20 short-term loans in just over 18 months and one 
was still outstanding when he applied for his first loan with Wizzcash. 
There was no significant break in the lending. If there had been  a significant break it, could 
have been reasonable  for Wizzcash to have assumed that Mr P had overcome whatever the 
financial circumstances were that led him to take high-cost short-term credit  in the first 
instance. But this wasnt the case.
In response to this, Wizzcash says it takes a shorter-term view when considering  an 
applicants borrowing history and that what it saw didnt give it any cause for concern.  
Wizzcash said it had added an additional  buffer to Mr Ps recorded  expenditure and that 
after taking that into account he had more  than sufficient income to make the loans 
repayments. So, on the face of it the borrowing was affordable to Mr P on a pounds and 
pence basis. 
Ref: DRN91538623But as Ive said above, Wizzcash also needed  to check whether the borrowing was 
sustainable for Mr P. And his borrowing pattern with other short-term credit  providers prior to 
his lending with Wizzcash would have suggested this was not the case. The number of loans 
taken in the previous 18 months  would  indicate  that Mr P was regularly having  to re-borrow  
and was becoming reliant upon short-term lending for his day-to-day living expenses,  rather  
than just having a short-term cash flow problem. 
So, like the adjudicator, I think Wizzcash should have realised it was unlikely Mr P would 
have been able to sustainably make  the loan repayments for loan one and any subsequent  
borrowing. Consequently, I dont think Wizzcash should have lent to Mr P.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans one to four and Wizzcash  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Wizzcash needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on loans one to four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loans one to four from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Wizzcash to take off tax from this interest.  Wizzcash  
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Emergency Cash Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9153862