K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  him a fee-paying Gold  
Service packaged bank  account. He says that Lloyds didnt tell him that an alternative fee-
free account  was available. 
background
Mr F has held an account with Lloyds since around  1974. Due to how long ago the sale took 
place, Lloyds doesnt know when exactly Mr Fs account was changed to a fee-paying  Gold  
Service account. But Lloyds says that Mr Fs account has been a fee-paying Gold Service 
account since at least September 2001.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that the account was mis-
sold. Mr F disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Fs complaint. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the packaged account to Mr F. Id 
like to explain why I think thats the case.
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that where  matters are in dispute, as they are here, 
I have to make my decision  based  on what I think is most likely  to have happened. And in 
working out what I think is most likely  to have happened, I have  to think  about  everything I've 
been told together with everything else I've been provided with and see how this fits with 
what I do know. In other  words, what I have to do, in this case, is decide what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened having weighed up what Mr F and Lloyds have been able to provide 
me with.
Mr F says that he held a fee-free account,  and says Lloyds  changed  his account to a Gold 
Service account and wasnt given the option to keep his existing account. Whereas Lloyds  
says that it has never been part of its sales process  to automatically upgrade someones 
account.
Lloyds says that it has little evidence on its systems from when the account was upgraded. 
And Mr F hasnt been able to provide anything from the time his account  was changed either  
 which, given the time scales involved,  I think is understandable.
Based on what I know about the Gold Service account in 2001  and the years prior to then, it 
cost £8 per month, although  this fee could  be waived if the account was kept in a credit 
balance of £1,000 or more. And in return, the account offered a £100 interest free overdraft 
facility, with reduced (compared to a fee-free  account) overdraft interest  rates on balances  
overdrawn by more  than £100. The account  also provided  a worldwide travel insurance, card 
protection, purchase protection, extended warranty and preferential  interest  rates on 
personal loans.  And based on what I know about the account, I think its likely  that it provided 
similar benefits when Mr Fs account  became a Gold Service  account.
Ref: DRN93819042Ive carefully considered  what Mr F and Lloyds have said.  And whilst Ive considered what  
Mr F has said about his recollections  of how his account was changed, I have to also bear in 
mind that we are talking  about something that happened over 17 years ago. And having 
done so I dont think I can reasonably conclude that what Mr F can remember  was more 
likely to have happened. 
Firstly, I should highlight  that as Mr F previously  held a fee-free account, I think  he was 
aware that the Gold Service account  was optional and that he couldve had a fee-free 
account instead. With this in mind I think its more likely that Mr F agreed to the Gold  Service 
account because  he wanted one (or more) of the banking benefits it provided.  For example,  
in 2001, Mr F had a £5,000 agreed overdraft limit. And from the earliest available  statements 
from 2001, I can see that Mr Fs account  was heavily overdrawn up to, and sometimes  over, 
that limit. Because of this, Mr F was paying considerable amounts of money in overdraft 
interest each month (for example, he was charged  £55.94 on 10 September  2001 and 
£57.37 on 9 October 2001). These amounts wouldve been even higher, had his account 
been a standard current account rather than a Gold Service account. 
Therefore, I think its more likely than not that Mr F agreed to the Gold  Service account for 
the banking benefits it provided,  even if he wasnt necessarily interested in the insurance 
benefits that also came with the account. 
Because of this, on balance, I dont think the Gold Service account  was mis-sold to Mr F for 
the reasons he has given.  And Ive not seen anything else that makes me think  that the Gold 
Service account was mis-sold either.
I appreciate that Mr F may be disappointed with my decision, but I hope Ive been able to 
explain why I dont  uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9381904