K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in February 2001.  Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax  
(Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs 
credit card application form  as has Mr Bs representative. The form includes a box to select 
for PPI, which has been crossed. Although it looks as though the box was crossed before 
the form was printed,  the entire form has been  printed.  So I think  its most likely this was 
completed during  a discussion  and printed afterwards.  And if Mr B didnt agree with the box 
being ticked I think hed have questioned it, or not signed the form.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. And although  Mr B became  self-employed at a later date  as this 
was after the sale, it doesnt affect the recommendation that Halifax made when Mr B was 
employed.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B and his representative said - including  what he has said 
about his sick pay entitlement  and the fact that he couldve sold his car to make  his credit 
card repayments. But as our adjudicator explained, I wouldnt consider the sale of a car as a 
guaranteed or quick source of income if things  had gone wrong, so I still think  Mr B couldve 
found the PPI useful  if he wasnt  able to work. So these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. 
Halifax hasnt paid the offer to Mr B yet, but it will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN93140732my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9314073