K820x#14complaint
Mr R says HSBC UK Bank  plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mr R bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint because:
 I think its likely that HSBC made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it. Mr R has told us that he applied for the credit card by post.  He says 
the PPI was recommended, but he didnt  know it had been added to his account. On 
balance I think its likely Mr R completed the credit card application form to show  that 
he wanted the cover. Without anything  else to support what hes told me, I havent 
been able to safely conclude that HSBC didnt make him aware that the PPI was 
optional.
 HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt  have to ask about any employer  benefits he was entitled to. It 
was for Mr R to decide whether the PPI was suitable for him.
 Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr R would have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9300283