K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC declined his application for a credit  card.  Hes also 
unhappy it didnt  provide  him with information  about its policy  of applying for two credit cards. 
background
Mr N tried to apply  for two Lloyds  credit cards online. Before  doing  so, though, he spoke with 
a member of staff at his branch  who told him he could apply for two credit  cards.  But this 
information wasnt correct  and Mr N was subsequently told that hed need  to hold the first 
credit card for at least 60 days  before  he was able to apply for a second  card.
Mr N cancelled the card and attempted to reapply. But he was told he couldnt  do so for until 
60 days had lapsed  from the first credit card application. Mr N wasnt  happy  about this so he 
complained to Lloyds.  In his complaint he said Lloyds  website didnt  mention  anything  about 
the 60 day restriction. And he thought Lloyds hadnt  taken his credit history into account 
before it declined his application. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Ns complaint. It said its policy requires a credit  card to be held with 
it for a minimum of 60 days before a second  card application can be approved.  So it didnt 
think it had made an error in declining Mr Ns subsequent credit  card application. But it did 
accept what Mr N said about the incorrect information he had been given in branch. And it 
sent him a cheque  for £30 to recognise  the frustration and confusion hed been caused.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Lloyds final response to his complaint and asked our service for 
an independent view. Our investigator looked into what happened,  and while  they 
empathised with Mr N, they didnt  think that Lloyds had done  anything wrong or needed to 
do anything more here. Mr N doesnt accept this and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr N and Lloyds  that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
The crux of this complaint is about whether Mr N was applying for a second credit card 
because the rules that Lloyds applied here are relevant to customers whove  applied  for a 
second card.  
Mr N disputes that he applied for a second  card because he says hed cancelled and 
destroyed his first card by the time of his request for a further  credit  card.  He thinks  that put 
him back in the position of a new applicant. So, he feels he should have had his application 
approved. 
Ref: DRN94971632Lloyds policy here is that a customer  cant  apply  for another credit card if theyre applying 
within 60 days of having opened [their] first credit  card. Here, while I appreciate  Mr N 
cancelled his first credit  card he was still applying for another credit  card  albeit one to 
replace the one hed cancelled. And he did so within 60 days of having opened his first credit  
card. So, Im satisfied  Lloyds was right to treat his subsequent application as a request for a 
second credit card.  
Ive gone onto consider whether Lloyds made  Mr N aware that there was a 60 day waiting 
period before he could apply for a second  card.
Lloyds says it makes its customers aware by including  information about that restriction on 
its website. But Mr N says the only warning message he could see online about eligibility 
was a 30 day rule instead. He says he couldnt see anything about a 60 day restriction.
Ive given careful consideration to whats being said here by both Mr N and Lloyds and Ive 
seen website screenshots that Lloyds has provided.  Lloyds said - and I have no reason to 
doubt that this is correct  - that the screenshots reflect the content of its website at the time 
Mr N applied for his credit  cards. The screenshots show that Lloyds outline in clear  
intelligible language that a customer can apply for a second credit  card subject to a number 
of conditions. The relevant condition here is that a customer isnt applying within  60 days  of 
having opened their first Lloyds credit card. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think its more likely than not, on balance,  that information  
was available  on Lloydss  website to inform Mr N that he couldnt apply for a second  card 
until 60 days had lapsed between his first and second application. I appreciate that Mr N 
might not have read that information  but thats not something I can fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for. 
I can understand how finding  out he couldnt have  a second credit  card took Mr N by 
surprise and caused  him inconvenience. I say this because hes referred to a visit to his 
branch during which he was told he could apply for two credit cards  at once. Lloyds hasnt 
been able to produce any records of this meeting taking place. But its been fair in that it 
hasnt disputed what Mr N said about his branch visit. Its also recognised the trouble and 
upset he was caused by being  given misleading information by sending  him a cheque  for 
£30. And I think the payment Lloyds made here fairly recognises  the impact  this had on him.
Its clear that Mr N isnt happy  about  Lloyds 60 day rule. But Lloyds says this rule helps to 
ensure it lends responsibly. I can appreciate  Mr Ns frustration at not being permitted to 
apply for two credit cards with Lloyds. He says he has good credit  history and hes been  a 
longstanding customer of Lloyds. But Lloyds is entitled to make a commercial decision about 
whether or not to offer credit  facilities  and on what terms. Thats  not something wed 
generally interfere  with unless an error has been made. 
Here Mr N hadnt been a Lloyds  credit  card customer for at least  60 days before he applied 
for a second  credit  card. Based on what Ive seen her Im satisfied that Lloyds legitimately 
exercised its commercial judgment  in deciding not to offer Mr N a second credit  card.  
I can see that Mr N has asked  a lot of questions about the application criteria Lloyds uses  
when it assesses applications for credit. He wants to know the exact reasons why his 
application for a second credit card was declined and he also wants to understand the 
lending criteria Lloyds uses. Mr N isnt happy  because he doesnt  feel hes received an 
adequate response to those queries. But I think Lloyds  gave Mr N a fair explanation of why 
Ref: DRN94971633his application  for a second card was declined. I realise that this didnt go into the level of 
detail Mr N wanted, or expected. But Lloyds says its lending criteria is commercially 
sensitive. And I think thats a reasonable point as I wouldnt expect a business to give out 
detailed information  about its lending criteria.  
I understand why Mr Ns keen to get a better understanding of why Lloyds wont  give him a 
second credit card.  However, Lloyds says it isnt required  to disclose its full lending  criteria 
as its commercially  sensitive. Im satisfied Lloyds  is entitled to keep commercially sensitive 
information about its lending criteria confidential. So I wont  be asking it to give Mr N any 
further information here.
Mr N asked our service  to tell Lloyds to allow him to apply for two credit cards without having  
to wait 60 days. It seems  from what hes said he considers  this service has some sort of 
regulatory function. But as our investigator has explained, were  not the regulator of banks 
and building societies. The Financial  Ombudsman Service provides  informal dispute 
resolution. We cant tell a business to change its policy or to adopt the changes that Mr N 
would like. Im satisfied that Lloyds followed its own policy properly and that it explained as 
much as it was able to about the reason why he couldnt apply  for two credit cards.
I appreciate that Mr N feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But I think Lloyds has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done  all it can to resolve this dispute.  So, Im not going to ask it to do anymore 
here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9497163