K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix Life) didnt inform  her that 
her Guaranteed Basic Pension could  be taken up to the age of 75. She says this meant she 
was unable to make an informed decision about transferring her pension to another  provider 
at an earlier  age.
Mrs D has been represented throughout her complaint. All references to Mrs D will be 
information and submissions made by her representative, who is authorised  to act on her 
behalf.
background
From October 1984, Mrs D had a Self Employed  Retirement Plan with Phoenix  Life. As part 
of this plan, she was provided  with a Guaranteed Basic Pension (GBP)  she was eligible for 
this from age 60 up to the age of 75. In Mrs Ds case the contract  was written to age 70 but 
she still had the option to defer this to age 75.
In July 2015, Mrs D received a countdown to retirement letter  from Phoenix  Life. This set 
out the potential benefits she could take at her upcoming 70th birthday. In November  2015,  
Mrs D requested further information from Phoenix  Life about the implications of transferring 
her pension to another provider. Amongst other things, the information sent to Mrs D 
provided the figures for the expected GBP at the age of 70 which was £1,551 per annum, 
including bonuses.
When she reached her contracted retirement  age of 70 in January 2016, Mrs D arranged for 
a transfer of her benefits. A transfer payment of £22,623 was paid by Phoenix Life to her 
new provider. Shortly after the transfer, Mrs D received a letter from Phoenix Life which 
contained information about  the GBP figures at ages 60, 65, 70 and 75. The amount it said 
she couldve  received  at 75 was £2,352 per annum. Mrs D said it wasnt  until she received 
this information  that she became aware  she was eligible to take the GBP  at the age of 75. 
So she complained to Phoenix  Life saying  she hadnt been  given enough  information  to 
make an informed decision about whether to transfer her pension benefits.
Initially, Phoenix Life didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. It said that although  the GBP could be 
taken at any time up to the age of 75, as Mrs D contract was written to the age of 70 they 
only provided her with figures up to this age.
In February 2017,  Phoenix Life changed its decision and upheld Mrs Ds complaint. It agreed 
as it hadnt provided  the figures  for the age of 75 that this meant Mrs D couldnt  make an 
informed decision.  It offered  to carry out a loss assessment. It also suggested  Mrs D transfer 
back to Phoenix Life but Mrs D refused this option.  Phoenix Life offered Mrs D £400 for the 
trouble and upset  caused. Mrs D was unhappy with Phoenix  Lifes response. So she brought  
her complaint to our service.
Later, during the complaint process  with our service, Phoenix  Life changed its decision. It 
said that it had sent Mrs D sufficient information  about the fact she could defer the GBP 
before she transferred her benefits. This included information set out in the countdown to 
retirement sent in July 2015 and letters sent later that year.
Initially, one of our investigators  agreed  with Phoenix Lifes  February  2017  findings that 
because it had failed  to provide Mrs D with the GBP  figures for the age of 75, they should 
Ref: DRN92143302calculate any loss suffered  by her and compensate her accordingly. Later, another  
investigator at this service  came  to a different conclusion. Following further  submissions 
from both parties, he considered that Mrs D had been clearly  told in Phoenix  Lifes 
communications leading  up to her retirement date that the GBP was available  to her up until 
the age of 75. And that as a result, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view. She felt that Phoenix Life had still failed to 
disclose vital information necessary to allow her to make  an informed choice. So the matter 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  how strongly Mrs D and her 
representative feel about this matter. But for reasons Ill explain, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
I can see in July 2015, six months  before  her contracted  retirement  of 70, Mrs D was sent a 
countdown to retirement  letter from the business.  This was followed by more  information in 
November 2015,  in a policy enquiry letter and a more detailed  letter  in December 2015. 
None of these  letters provided figures  for the GBP at the age of 75. But all letters  discussed 
the Guaranteed Basic Pension  lasting  up until this age. I think  the letter  dated 30 November 
2015 is clearest on this where it states:
With a traditional With-Profit  contract.  Phoenix guarantees to pay a certain basic pension
amount when the policy is set up. Please note that the Guaranteed Basic Pension is 
available from age 60 to age 75.
And I think Phoenix Lifes explanation as to why it only provided an actual figure up until the 
age of 70, in that this was Mrs Ds contractual retirement age, is reasonable. Given  this, I 
dont think, unless asked for, there  was any obligation on Phoenix  Life to provide figures  for 
all of the ages  the GBP  could be taken.
So I do think  the communication  Phoenix Life sent to Mrs D prior to her decision to transfer 
her pension to another provider, made it reasonably  clear that the GBP was available  up 
until the age of 75 if she chose to stay with them. I also note that Phoenix Life did advise 
Mrs D to seek advice before transferring to a new provider. And I understand that Mrs D and 
her representative did read through Pension Wise guidance as well as carefully  reading  all 
the documents received  from Phoenix  Life. But what Mrs D says was crucial to her making  
an informed decision was being told the specific figures at the age of 75, which  wouldve 
been £2,352 per annum.  She also didnt appreciate this was guaranteed. Mrs D says this 
wouldve made a difference  of £801 annually, so she considers  its something Phoenix Life 
shouldve told her before she decided to transfer.  So Ill now consider  this point.
Firstly, its worth noting the increase in GBP from the age of 70 to 75 reflects the increased  
retirement age. So Mrs D wouldve had to wait a further five years before drawing this benefit 
and risk being paid less overall depending on her life expectancy. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that this is what she wouldve been willing to do.
In particular, I can see that during the complaints process, when Phoenix  Life upheld  her 
complaint, it offered her an opportunity to transfer  her funds back  to them.  But Mrs D didnt 
want to do so. She said this was because some of the benefits had already been taken and 
Ref: DRN92143303therefore, it wouldve  been messy to transfer  back.  So instead she wants compensation for 
any financial  loss she mayve suffered as a result of not knowing about the GBP at 75. 
Whilst I take on board Mrs Ds reasons for not doing so, I do think that if the GBP was a 
significant part of her decision making,  this was her opportunity to go back to Phoenix Life. 
The fact she chose not to do so, would  suggest  she was still happy  with her decision to 
transfer.
More importantly, Mrs D said the main reason she wanted to transfer  away  from 
Phoenix Life was because it didn't offer the retirement options that she actually wanted. 
Further, she was attracted to the new provider because she preferred its service. And given 
that part of the difficulty of taking up Phoenix Lifes offer to transfer back was that she said 
the money was needed for some  other  use, I think its unlikely that Mrs D wouldve wanted  to 
wait a further five years  before taking her pension benefits. So all things considered,  Im not 
persuaded a more  detailed account  of the GBP wouldve been enough to change  her mind 
about transferring.
In summary,  I think Phoenix  Life did let Mrs D know about the potential to defer  her 
guaranteed benefits up to the age of 75. And based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its 
more likely than not, that she wouldve still chosen  to transfer her benefits elsewhere  even if 
shed been given the exact figures she could expect at that age. So, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
I note Phoenix Life has paid Mrs D £400 for delays and other customer  service issues. And 
although I appreciate this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mrs D and her representative, 
for the reasons Ive explained above,  I wont be asking Phoenix  Life to do anything further.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9214330