K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  Mr and Mrs S say 
Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold  them the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the paperwork  completed  both in 1995, when Mr and Mrs S first took 
out the MPPI  with a mortgage,  and in 2005 when Mr and Mrs S increased  the MPPI  to 
cover a further advance. And Im satisfied from this paperwork that the MPPI  was 
presented as optional and that Mr and Mrs S chose to take it out. Mr and Mrs S have 
said that it was implied that the MPPI was a condition of the mortgage, but I dont think 
theres enough evidence to support this. Overall I think Yorkshire  Building Society made 
it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt  have  to take out the MPPI  and that they chose to take it 
out.
I dont think Yorkshire  Building  Society provided  Mr and Mrs S with a personalised 
recommendation to take out the MPPI, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for them.  
But even  if Yorkshire Building Society had recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S, I 
dont think I could  say it wouldve  been wrong  for it to do so  despite  what  Mr and Mrs S 
have said about their sick pay, I still think the MPPI was a sensible precaution. 
Yorkshire Building Society  had to make  sure Mr and Mrs S got the information  they 
needed to decide  if the MPPI  was right for them. And its possible the information 
Yorkshire Building Society gave Mr and Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the MPPI  - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it 
could have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks  like the MPPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the MPPI  would have  put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Yorkshire Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
MPPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Yorkshire Building Society will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S 
because: 
Yorkshire Building Society  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 
50% of the MPPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs S about  that. Because 
Yorkshire Building Society didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN95687932To put that right, Yorkshire Building Society has basically offered to pay back  the amount  
of commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S has said. But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire Building Society has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium. Yorkshire Building Society should also 
pay back to Mr and Mrs S any extra  interest  they paid because  of that.
Yorkshire Building Society should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each  month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Yorkshire Building Society should also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each 
payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9568793