K821x#15Complaint
Mr K has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) unfairly debited interest, 
fees and charges from his account  when  it ought  to have realised that he was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought RBS should have realised that 
Mr K was in financial difficulty by November 2013  at the latest  and so it needed to refund any 
the interest,  fees and charges it debited from Mr Ks overdraft from this point.  
RBS didnt respond to our adjudicators  view.  So the complaint  was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when debiting  
interest, fees and overdraft charges  from a customers account. So I dont consider it 
necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think RBS acted unfairly when it 
continued debiting  interest, fees and associated charges from Mr Ks account from 
November 2013  onwards.  
By this point, RBS was debiting significant overlimit fees for the third month in succession. 
RBS will be aware that the relevant guidance  and good industry practice  in place at the time 
makes it clear that an increasing dependence on an unauthorised overdraft  such as Mr Ks 
account was displaying   was considered a sign or an indication that a customer  may be in 
financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances, I think that RBS ought to have done more  to establish  Mr Ks 
financial position before  debiting further  charges. If it had done  this here then it would have  
seen that Mr K was already struggling and using payday loans and other high cost credit in 
order to make ends meet.  So I think that by November 2013, RBS should  have  realised that 
Mr K was struggling financially and treated him with forbearance rather than debiting  even  
more fees and charges from his account . 
As RBS didnt react to Mr Ks account  usage  and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And as this led to Mr K paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of RBS failing to act fairly and reasonably  towards him. 
So RBS needs  to put things right.
Ref: DRN93100952Fair compensation  what  RBS  needs to do to put things right  for Mr K.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ks account so that all interest, fees and charges  applied to it from 
November 2013 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on Mr Ks account once these adjustments 
have been made RBS should  contact Mr K to arrange a suitable repayment  plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record  negative information on Mr Ks 
credit file, it should backdate this to November  2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr K along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr Ks credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must give    
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr Ks complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9310095