K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that BMW  Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.
background
In October  2015, Mr F acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. 
The total repayable under the agreement was around £43,000.  Mr F was required to make 
35 monthly payments  of £315 and there was a final optional payment of around £19,500 if 
he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr F had the right to terminate the agreement  at any time before 
the final payment  was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr F had an annual mileage allowance  of 10,000  and a total 
mileage allowance  of 30,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge him 14.4 pence for every mile that he exceeded the allowance  by. It said that in the 
event he terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
In July 2016, Mr F contacted BMWFS to ask about  increasing the mileage  allowance  under 
his agreement. BMWFS agreed to allow an increase  from 10,000 per year to 15,000 per 
year. It sent Mr F a form to sign to confirm  he agreed to the change. Mr F says he sent this 
form back to BMWFS.
Mr F had a change in circumstances and in August 2018, he exercised  his right to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  After Mr F handed the car back, BMWFS later charged  him a 
further £662.98 as he had exceeded the mileage  allowance on the agreement. Mr F 
discovered that this was because the mileage  allowance hadnt been  increased to 15,000 
and had stayed  at 10,000,  so he complained to BMWFS. 
BMWFS said it never received Mr Fs signed  form confirming  the increase, for this reason it 
hadnt increased the allowance. It said that as the mileage allowance hadnt  been increased, 
Mr F was liable for the excess mileage charge. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He was satisfied,  on balance, that 
Mr F had returned the form to BMWFS  although he accepted it was never  received. But he 
said that even  if he didnt return it, BMWFS had already agreed verbally to the mileage 
increase and crucially,  the mileage increase wouldnt have affected any of the terms of the 
agreement. On this basis  the investigator didnt  think  it was fair and reasonable for BMWFS  
to apply the charge as by waiving it, BMWFS  would  be in no different position than they 
would be if they had received the form back in 2016. 
BMWFS didnt agree. It said that Mr F hadnt  provided any proof that hed sent the form 
back. It also felt that Mr F ought to have contacted  BMWFS  to check  it had been  received  
and actioned, it said Mr F should  take some responsibility for failing to do this. It said as the 
form hadnt been received it was correct to apply the charge. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN90709362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party disputes that BMWFS can contractually charge an excess mileage charge 
under certain circumstances.  The issue  for me to decide is whether BMWFS  has acted fairly 
and reasonably in using  an annual  mileage allowance of 10,000 instead of 15,000  when 
deciding whether a charge is payable by Mr F. Having thought about this carefully, I dont 
think BMWFS  has acted fairly and reasonably. Ill explain why. 
It isnt disputed that Mr F contacted BMWFS in 2016 to request an increase to the mileage 
allowance on his hire purchase agreement. Nor is it disputed that BMWFS  verbally agreed to 
this increase. 
I can see BMWFS sent two letters  out to Mr F confirming that it would agree to increase the 
mileage allowance  to 15,000. It asked  Mr F to sign and return one of the letters  in order to 
confirm his acceptance of the new mileage allowance. Mr F says he returned this form but 
BMWFS has shown it hasnt recorded receiving it. 
I note that in accepting the mileage increase, no other terms of the agreement  would 
change. The APR, monthly  repayments  and term of the agreement  would have stayed 
exactly the same. The only difference was the mileage allowance.  As there was no detriment 
to Mr F and only a benefit, I see no reason why he wouldnt have returned it as he says, 
particularly as he was the one that had proactively asked for the increase due to needing  to 
drive more miles. Im therefore satisfied, on balance, that he did likely return the form. 
However, Im mindful that BMWFS has shown it wasnt recorded  as being received. So, 
I cant reasonably say it has done anything wrong  in not adjusting  the mileage  allowance.  
I accept it was waiting  for Mr F to return the form and it was under the impression Mr F had 
chosen not to do so. 
BMWFS says Mr F should have asked for confirmation it had received the form, but Im not 
persuaded that was necessary. This is because it appears everything was already agreed 
verbally and the rest of the terms of the agreement were unaffected. Further, there wasnt  
anything contained  within the letter that ought to have made Mr F think further 
correspondence was likely. For example, I think it made it clear a new agreement  wouldnt 
be sent out to him. 
Because none of the other terms would change, there wasnt anything  that ought  to have 
reasonably alerted Mr F to the fact BMWFS hadnt  received the form, such as his direct  debit 
amount changing.  Overall, I dont think Mr F acted unreasonably in assuming everything  was 
fine after he returned  the form.
As Ive set out, I dont think BMWFS acted unfairly in the way it processed the mileage 
increase request in 2016. However, Mr F has suffered a loss through  what  Im satisfied is no 
fault of his. Its clear  that had the form been  received,  Mr F wouldnt have had to pay 
anything extra towards the agreement and when he exercised his right to voluntary 
terminate, he wouldnt have exceeded the 15,000 mileage allowance.  It follows  that had 
everything gone as it should, Mr F wouldnt have incurred an excess  mileage charge of 
£662.98.
Ref: DRN90709363The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage  charge  is applied, primarily, 
for depreciation in the car. It appears  in Mr Fs specific case, BMWFS  had already concluded 
in 2016 that increasing the mileage  by 5,000 per year wouldnt  affect  the value of the car. 
This is because it didnt deem it appropriate to increase  the monthly repayments when it 
agreed to increase the mileage allowance.  Therefore, for this specific  car and agreement 
there was no material loss to BMWFS regardless of whether Mr F drove 10,000 or 15,000 
miles per year. 
Taking into consideration all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for BMWFS to charge  Mr F an excess mileage charge. This is because in this specific  case 
BMWFS dont appear to have suffered any loss in relation  to the additional mileage Mr F 
covered in the car. It was already willing to increase  the mileage  allowance  and therefore 
forgo any mileage charge  without increasing  the costs to Mr F. In other  words,  by waiving 
the charge, BMWFS would be in no different  position than they would have  been  had Mr Fs 
signed form been received. The amount they could have recovered from him under the hire 
purchase agreement  would be the same. 
Im satisfied that the charge  was only applied because of events that Im persuaded, on 
balance, were of no fault of Mr Fs. For all these  reasons, it would be unfair  for Mr F to have 
to pay a charge  to BMWFS for excess mileage, especially where waiving that charge  
appears to cause no detriment or loss to BMWFS.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
Waive the excess  mileage charged  that was applied and any associated fees or 
interest that may have been added  to it at a later date. If Mr F has already paid the 
charge then BMWFS should refund it to him, adding 8% simple  interest  per year from 
the date he paid it to the date of settlement. 
BMWFS should remove any adverse information  it has recorded on Mr Fs credit file 
in relation to the excess mileage charge. 
If BMWFS considers tax should  be deducted  from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide  Mr F with a certificate showing  how much its taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount, if he is eligible  to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9070936