K821x#15complaint
Miss Y complains  that Everyday Lending  Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Miss Y was given two loans by ELL that were  both due to be repaid over 24 months. She 
borrowed £2,000  in May 2018 before repaying the loan early  in September  2018. Miss Y 
then borrowed £2,000 again just three  weeks later before once more repaying the loan early 
in January 2019.
Miss Ys complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
checks ELL had done before agreeing the first loan had been  sufficient, and didnt suggest  
that Miss Y would have any problems repaying the loan. But whilst he again thought the 
checks before loan 2 were proportionate,  this time he thought the results of the checks  
showed that Miss Y was facing  problems  managing  her money. So our adjudicator  didnt 
think it had been  reasonable  for ELL to give the second loan to Miss Y and he asked the 
lender to pay her some compensation.
Disappointingly ELL didnt respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Miss Y accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss Ys complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Miss Y required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what  she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss Y. In practice  
this meant  that ELL had to ensure  that making  the repayments wouldnt cause Miss Y undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Miss Y. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN90422842the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Miss Y.
ELL gathered some information from Miss Y before it agreed each loan. It asked her for 
details of her income and her normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical  
data to estimate the rest of Miss Ys normal expenditure. It checked Miss Ys credit file to 
determine how much  she was paying  to other  lenders.  And it asked Miss Y to provide copies 
of her bank  statements so it could verify the information shed supplied.
Both times Miss Y was entering into a significant  commitment with ELL. She was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments  for a period of two years. So I think  it is right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check,  some  detailed information about  Miss Ys financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks  it did achieved  that aim. 
I think that its checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information  those checks show. So Ive looked at the information 
ELL gathered from Miss Y to check whether I agree  it was appropriate  for her to be given 
these loans.
Miss Y told ELL that she wanted  to use the first loan to help consolidate a short-term  loan 
and some credit card debt.  Those  were outstanding amounts that ELL could see from its 
check of Miss Ys credit  file. And it was reasonable for ELL to accept Miss Ys explanation of 
what she intended to do with the loan,  and the additional disposable income that would give 
to her. Miss Ys bank  statements didnt show any indications of financial problems such  as 
multiple other loans,  or repeated unpaid transactions. I dont think  ELLs proportionate 
checks would have  suggested that Miss Y would  have  problems repaying  this loan.
Miss Y repaid the first loan much earlier than originally planned. But just three weeks  later 
she approached  ELL and asked to borrow the same amount once again. I think  that in itself 
should have put the lender  on notice that all might not be well with Miss Ys finances. And 
looking at the bank statements that Miss Y gave  to ELL would support that conclusion.  In the 
month before taking  this loan  and repaying  her earlier borrowing  Miss Y had borrowed a 
total amount equivalent to her normal monthly  income from other short-term lenders. She 
had taken this borrowing  over eleven separate  transactions.  
Ref: DRN90422843Miss Y again told ELL that she wanted to use its loan to consolidate some debts. So that 
would lead to a conclusion that the consolidation shed attempted just four months  earlier 
had failed. I think it should have been  clear to ELL that Miss Y was facing severe problems 
managing her finances and was struggling  to repay  the amounts  she owed in a sustainable 
manner. It seems likely  that she was borrowing from a range of lenders in order  to meet her 
repayments on earlier loans.
So in summary I dont think ELL was wrong  to give the first loan to Miss Y. But I think  the 
results of its checks, and what it knew from its lending history with Miss Y, should  have led 
ELL to decline her application for the second  loan. So ELL needs to pay Miss Y some 
compensation.
putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed  to lend to Miss Y in September 2018. So for that loan 
ELL should;
refund  all the interest and charges Miss Y paid on loan 2 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ys credit  file in relation to loan 2
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Miss Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ys complaint and direct  Everyday Lending  
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9042284