K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains about the treatment he received from Barclays Bank  UK PLC when he 
called on 3 February 2019. Mr S says Barclays call handler was guilty of racial 
discrimination and disconnected the call. 
Background
Mr S called Barclays on 3 February 2019 to discuss his account.  After answering security  
questions the call handler ran through various transactions  with Mr S. Midway through the 
conversation the call disconnected.  
Mr S called back and complained. Barclays responded on 5 February 2019 but didnt agree 
its call handler had disconnected the call on purpose or that hed been racist towards Mr S. 
Barclays offered Mr S £10 as a gesture of goodwill but he didnt accept. 
As he remained dissatisfied, Mr S referred  his complaint to our service and it was passed  to 
an investigator. The investigator  thought  Barclays had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly so 
didnt tell it to take any further action. Mr S didnt  accept the investigators view so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr S call with Barclays from 3 February 2019. Whilst its clear  the call ended  
after around six minutes, I didnt hear anything that indicates Barclays purposefully ended 
the call or discriminated  against Mr S. The call handler ran through the security checks 
required to access the account. He then looked  at the account to check details for Mr S. 
While the call handler was speaking the call disconnected. But Barclays says its not clear  
who ended  the call and I think thats a reasonable point. Its clear to me the call handler was 
mid sentence and trying to provide Mr S with the information requested.  I think its unlikely 
that they intentionally ended the call at that point.
I thought the call handler was professional and helpful throughout. I didnt hear anything  to 
indicate he treated  Mr S differently  because of his race.  
Mr S had to call back to finish his call with Barclays. But I dont  think  thats unreasonably 
inconvenient and he was able to get the information he called about  within  a short  space of 
time.
Barclays offered Mr S £10 as a gesture of goodwill after he complained.  As I havent  found 
anything to show Barclays made a mistake  or treated  Mr S unfairly Im not going to tell 
Barclays to increase the level of award  its offered. I leave it to Mr S to decide whether he 
wants to accept Barclays offer. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I havent  found anything to show Barclays made  a mistake 
or treated Mr S unfairly. 
Ref: DRN91927192My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9192719