K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  didnt offer a fair valuation for his car when he 
claimed on his motor insurance after it was damaged in an accident.
background
Mr B insured  his car with Ageas. Unfortunately it was damaged  in an accident  and Ageas  
decided it was beyond  economic repair. It therefore offered Mr B the choice of a cash 
settlement based  on the car being written off, or a lower amount if Mr B wanted  to keep the 
car and have it repaired himself. Either way, the settlement was based  on a valuation of 
£30,321 less the excess.
Mr B didnt think that was a fair valuation. He said his car was worth at least  £34,000  it had 
low mileage, all the optional extras and distinctive and unusual paintwork. He said the 
adverts hed seen online for similar cars were for more  than Ageas  had offered.
Our investigator thought Ageass offer was fair, so Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy allow Ageas to offer a cash  replacement value 
rather than repair the car if repair isnt economic.  The terms say the settlement  figure  is the 
market value of the car as it was just before the accident.
Ageas calculated the market value by consulting two industry  standard  valuation guides. 
They produced similar figures  and Ageas offered the average  of the two.
Deciding the market  value of a car isnt a precise  science, and an estimate  must  be made. 
We think the most reliable  way of estimating the value, in most cases, is to use the standard 
industry guides. Theyre based on data from actual sales of cars of the same  make and 
model. As a result, theyre likely to be more reliable than information from adverts for sale  
which are the sellers opening  position, and often negotiated down. I havent seen evidence 
of similar  cars for sale at much  higher  prices,  in any case.
The guides  make allowance  for additional  features that come  with the car, and for mileage.
Weve obtained  the same figures from the guides that Ageas did, and also found a similar 
figure from a third guide Ageas  didnt use. 
Those figures reflect the age, low mileage and good  condition of Mr Bs car. Hes said that 
he didnt pay extra for options or modifications  when  he bought  it; he bought the model with 
all options included. So I think thats  reflected in the guide price  which  is based  on his 
specific car. And I dont  think Mr Bs distinctive paintwork is likely to add anything to the 
value; paintwork is a matter of personal  taste and just as one buyer  might  be attracted by it, 
another might be put off. So I think it was reasonable for Ageas to use the figures  produced 
by the guides it consulted.
Ref: DRN95199122Taking everything into account,  therefore, I think the valuation  Ageas offered Mr B is fair in 
all the circumstances.  So I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9519912