K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy  was 
taken out when Mr and Mrs W applied  for a loan secured on their home. The policy was 
taken out in Mr Ws name only and covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W didnt
agree saying, in summary, that:
They  recollect  the society implying that their loan application wouldnt be successful if 
they didnt take the PPI.
The adjudicators conclusions refer to things being likely to have happened.  But 
Mr and Mrs W say its equally unlikely.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Nationwide doesnt  have a full record of what took place. This isnt unreasonable or 
unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In cases like this, where the evidence  is 
incomplete or contradictory,  I have to make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and the 
wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
In response to the adjudicators conclusions,  Mr and Mrs W say they recall being told they 
had to have the PPI for their loan application  to be successful. But earlier  theyd told us they 
didnt know the PPI had been  added  and that they didnt recall any conversation  about 
PPI. Its not surprising they cant remember  exactly what was discussed more  than 20 years  
ago. But I havent  seen anything to show that Nationwide didnt make it clear  that the PPI 
was a separate product.  Overall, I think it more likely than not that Nationwide  made Mr and 
Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt have to check  that it was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs W.
The cost of the policy wouldve been set out in the loan agreement form  £11.29  a month.  
So I find its most likely that Mr and Mrs W knew how much the policy was going to cost 
before they agreed to it.
Ref: DRN99854422Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. Mr W wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs W would  
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think 
they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs W have told us. Theyve  said that Mr W wouldve 
received generous sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness  or an 
accident. But the PPI wouldve covered the loan repayments for up to 12 months in the event 
of a successful claim. Nationwide says this was a secured loan, so Mr and Mrs Ws home 
wouldve been at risk if they couldnt  keep up with the repayments. So I think it most likely  
that Mr and Mrs W thought  despite  what  they recall now - that the policy couldve been a 
useful benefit  for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9985442