K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Ps car was insured with Admiral.  In April 2014, he told Admiral that his car may have 
touched another car in a car park,  so he wanted to report  it in case a claim was made 
against his policy.  Admiral said they would  record the incident and keep it open for at least  
six months in case a claim was made. Admiral updated a shared  insurance database, the 
claims and underwriting  exchange (CUE), which showed the incident  as being open.  At the 
end of December  2014, as no claim had been  made, Admiral told Mr P that they had closed 
the incident and removed  the record on CUE.
In May 2017, Mr P applied through a broker to insure his car with a different insurer from 
1 June 2017. During the online application when  asked  if he had any previous claims, Mr P 
said he didnt. His new policy started  on 1 June. But the broker  carried out some  checks and 
discovered there were  two open claims showing on CUE, the one involving the 2014 incident  
in the car park and another one from March  2016  when Mr P had cover with a different 
insurer. When the broker told the new insurer about the two open claims, the insurer  
cancelled Mr Ps policy on 2 June 2017. Mr P complained.
I should say that Mr P made separate complaints about: the broker of the June 2017 policy;  
the insurer of the June  2017 policy; the insurer from 2016 when  the March  2016 claim was 
recorded on CUE; and this complaint  about  Admiral. Those other  complaints have all been  
dealt with under different case references. This complaint  therefore  only relates to Admiral  
but I may refer to aspects of the other  complaints for explanatory  purposes only.
Admiral said they had asked for the incident  to be removed from CUE  at the end of 
December 2014.  And when  Mr P raised  this complaint with them, on 1 June  2017,  Admiral 
checked CUE and confirmed that the 2014 incident wasnt  showing. Admiral said they 
couldnt explain why Mr Ps new broker said they had seen the 2014  incident on CUE.
Admiral didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Mr P brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He initially felt that Admiral hadnt  done anything wrong. But his 
view later changed and said Admiral must have done something  wrong.  As Admiral  didnt 
agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 March 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr P, but Im not intending  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr P has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all 
those very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Admiral  have dealt with Mr P in a fair and reasonable 
way.
When Mr P reported the potential incident in 2014,  Admiral were correct  in recording 
that incident on CUE. That is normal  insurance industry practice.  But when they 
Ref: DRN90374082closed the matter in December  2014,  they should  have removed the record on CUE. 
And they said they did that. I have seen  Admirals file note for 29 December 2014. 
That shows  the open claim was removed. Given that note was made at the time, I 
think it shows that Admiral did amend the record on CUE at the time.
Admirals contemporaneous notes also show that Mr P raised a complaint on 
31 May 2017, after his new broker said the 2014  incident was still showing on CUE. 
The notes show that Admiral checked  CUE on 1 June 2017  and it wasnt showing the 
2014 incident.
Clearly something has gone  wrong as Mr Ps new broker said when they checked  
CUE it was showing that incident. I understand that different  insurers  and brokers 
use different data management companies  (called suppliers) when making  records 
on CUE. One explanation given by Admiral  is that potentially the system Mr Ps 
broker used to check CUE wasnt updated which is why it was still showing the 2014 
incident. The Motor  Insurers  Bureau (MIB), who run the CUE system,  gave  one 
possible explanation  that the broker may have misinterpreted  the record due to their 
claims system  misreading  the CUE record. MIB also said: we do experience issues  
like these from time to time but they tend to be cases where a broker or insurer 
misinterprets data.
I should make it absolutely clear that the suggestions made  by Admiral and MIB as to 
what may have gone wrong, which I have detailed above, are only speculation and I 
have no evidence that any of those are correct. It may be the case  that something 
went wrong with the CUE system, but again  that is only speculation. But I think  it 
demonstrates that things  do sometimes go wrong.  And something clearly  did go 
wrong in Mr Ps case which has caused  him distress  and inconvenience. But I dont 
have sufficient evidence  to convince myself that Admiral are responsible for the error. 
So, while I have a lot of sympathy for the unfortunate situation Mr P found himself in, 
I don't think its fair to conclude that Admiral  have done anything wrong. Im therefore 
not intending to uphold  this complaint.
Finally, Im aware  that one of Mr Ps main concerns was that because  his 
1 June 2017 policy was cancelled, he would have  to declare that going  forward  which 
would be to his detriment. But I have seen confirmation from the insurer that 
cancelled that policy, and Im aware that confirmation was given to Mr P, that they 
amended the relevant records to remove the cancellation marker  from Mr Ps 
records. They said that means he doesnt have  to declare the June 2017 policy as 
cancelled when asked  in the future if hes ever had insurance cancelled or denied. I 
hope that helps.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Admiral didnt comment  on my 
provisional findings. Mr P didnt agree  with my provisional decision and he made the 
following points:
He only made a complaint about  Admiral  because our service  instructed  him.
The broker was at fault for the problems he experienced.
The broker lied saying that they didnt check to see if he had any claims. My 
provisional decision said the broker carried out some checks and discovered two 
open claims". But the broker expressly  denied making any such checks.
Ref: DRN90374083my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Mr Ps further  comments, as follows:
Mr P said he only complained about Admiral because our service  instructed  him. But I dont 
agree thats  the case. Ive seen that Mr P was unhappy with Admirals actions and that he 
raised those with us.
Finally, Mr P has made  some comments about  the broker.  As this complaint is about  the 
actions of Admiral and Mr Ps concerns about  the broker have been dealt with in a separate 
complaint, I wont comment about  the broker.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9037408