K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about the amount of compensation that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
has offered to settle her complaint about  a mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs W complained  to HSBC that she had been mis-sold PPI with a flexi-loan. HSBC  agreed 
to settle her complaint and offered £18.95 in compensation. HSBC  said it had no data about 
how much  was paid for the policy and based  its offer on only one premium  ever being paid.
Mrs W wasnt happy with this offer and brought her complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2019, a copy  of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
Mrs W has confirmed  she has received  that provisional decision and has nothing  further  to 
add.
HSBC did not respond  to my provisional  decision.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC agreed to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and offered £18.95  to settle  it. Very limited 
information is available about the loan account but Mrs W provided a copy  of the agreement 
and an account  statement  covering  three months of payments. 
HSBC says it has no evidence about  the PPI premiums other than the information on the 
loan agreement. And it assumed only one payment  was made, although no evidence  to 
support this approach to estimating the PPI costs has been  provided. 
As full records are not available  some assumptions have to be made about how much  
Mrs W may have paid for the PPI. I explained  in some detail in my provisional decision why I 
did not accept  the approach taken by HSBC to repay only one premium. 
The statements  show  Mrs W made at least three loan repayments and HSBC says she paid 
the loan off in full. So I explained in my provisional  decision why I thought Mrs W probably 
paid at least three monthly premiums and most likely many more. 
With no evidence to show the flexi-loan was settled  early or that further borrowings took 
place during the course of the flexi-loan, I said it was reasonable to assume Mrs W made  the 
regular monthly repayments for the loan until the balance shown on the statements  was 
cleared and this wouldve taken approximately  34 months. 
On that basis this would give a refund of premiums to Mrs W of £166.94,  based  on monthly 
premiums of £4.91. This amount  was calculated on the basis of the loan agreement 
information about the cost of the PPI.
Ref: DRN93488072I also explained HSBC  needed to work out 8% simple interest on each premium from the 
date it was paid until the date of final settlement. And this would be about £300.00 
dependent upon the date of settlement.
As no further  evidence  has been  provided, and HSBC hasnt provided an updated 
calculation as I suggested, I have no reason to change the findings I made  in my provisional 
decision. I am therefore directing HSBC  to pay £166.94 to refund the costs of the PPI. In 
addition HSBC should pay £300.00  for the 8% simple interest. Tax at standard rate will have 
to be deducted  from the compensatory interest  as required by HM Revenue  and Customs.   
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I am directing HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs W £466.94, before tax, as compensation  for the mis-sold PPI taken 
out with her flexi-loan. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93488073Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs W is unhappy  with the compensation that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has offered  to settle her 
complaint about a mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out alongside  a flexi-loan 
facility.
background
In March 1997  Mrs W took out a flexi-loan which  was associated  with her current  account. At the 
same time she took out a PPI policy  related  solely  to the flexi-loan facility.  
In 2018 Mrs W complained  to HSBC  that she had been mis-sold the PPI. Eventually HSBC  wrote to 
Mrs W and offered her £18.95 in full and final settlement  of her complaint.  HSBC said it had no 
evidence of the premiums paid by Mrs W and had based its offer on one premium being paid for the 
policy. 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this offer and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered wasnt fair and in view of the limited data available to 
HSBC it should make  an average  offer based on what other  customers  may have paid for PPI for a 
similar product during a similar  time.
HSBC didnt  agree to take that approach  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has no data about this flexi-loan account  which  isnt surprising as it was taken  out over 20 
years ago. However Mrs W had been able to provide a copy of the loan agreement  and also a 
statement covering three months of payments on the account, for July to September  1997. In 
September 1997 the balance carried  forward was £1,372.78.
The loan agreement indicates that the monthly loan repayment, when  there is an amount owing on 
the account,  will be £60.00.  
HSBC says it has no evidence  about the premiums other than the information  on the loan agreement. 
It has said our calculation is based on one premium as confirmed  in the Loan Agreement  Form.
The loan agreement actually sets out how the PPI will be calculated each month and says the PPI is: 
at a rate of 8.19 pence per £1 of standard monthly  repayment except  upon final repayment on 
closure of the Account. This does not in any way reflect or show that only one payment was made for 
PPI. And Im disappointed HSBC interpreted the information on the loan agreement as it did.
Mrs W has also provided a copy of the loan account statement for the three months between  July 
1997 and September 1997. This statement shows £60.00 was paid each month to repay  the amount 
borrowed including the interest that was added to the loan amount each month.  The flexi loan was for 
a maximum credit limit of £1,500.00 and the balance brought forward to July 1997 was £1,487.07. 
This would also suggest  Mrs W may have possibly  drawn down the full £1,500.00 towards the start of 
the loan facility  in March  1997.
Ref: DRN93488074HSBC has said that the statement shows no evidence  of PPI premiums being  paid so without 
evidence of payment of the PPI it will not investigate further. It has agreed to offer just one months 
PPI cost on the basis the agreement  indicates that PPI was taken  out but there is nothing  to show 
how long it was paid.
The loan agreement is quite clear  that the PPI premium would be charged  to a bank account, the 
number of which is stated on the loan agreement and this would  appear to be Mrs Ws current 
account. Therefore the loan statements would not show the PP charged,  the PPI premiums were not 
added to the loan. And Mrs W doesnt have her bank statements going back to 1997.
HSBC has told us that although Mrs W did get into debt with some of her accounts, she did not get 
into arrears  on her flexi loan account. This indicates that she repaid the full amount  borrowed.
As there  are no full records showing the actual loan statements to show all borrowing and 
repayments, some assumptions  have to be made about how much Mrs W may have paid for the PPI. 
I do not accept, based on what I have seen so far, that she only made one PPI payment as assumed 
by HSBC. I can see no justification for that assumption. The statement  shows she most likely  made  at 
least three payments  for the loan in 1997 and without evidence to show the PPI was cancelled I think 
the PPI was probably paid for much longer.
Our adjudicator recommended  that HSBC should  make an average offer to Mrs W, this being based  
on the average amount  paid by other  customers  for PPI at a similar time with this type of product.  
Whatever approach  is taken  there has to be some assumptions made  and I think there is enough 
information for some reasonable assumptions to be made on the specific loan and PPI policy that Mrs 
W took out. The assumptions then would only be about how long the loan was open with the PPI 
being paid.
With no evidence to show the flexi loan was settled early or that further borrowings  took place during  
the course of the flexi-loan, I think it is reasonable to assume Mrs W made  the £60 monthly  
repayments until the loan was cleared. Allowing for interest charged on the account,  as well as the 
actual loan amount, paying £60 each month to repay this in total would  have taken  around 34 months.  
That is based  on the repayments starting in April 1997 and ending in February 2000, with the last PPI 
premium being charged in January 2000.  
With no evidence to show the PPI was cancelled  at any time, or that Mrs W took out additional 
borrowing to lengthen  the time the payments were made and the PPI charged,  I think it is reasonable 
to assume the PPI was also paid on the £60.00 monthly repayment amount, for 34 months.
I have seen nothing  to show that it would be logical  or fair to assume only one PPI premium was 
made. And taking  account of the evidence provided by HSBC that the loan never went  into arrears, I 
think it most likely the loan was repaid in 34 months and PPI was paid for this period. This would  give 
a refund of premiums to Mrs W of £166.94, based on monthly premiums of £4.91 which  is calculated 
on the basis of the loan agreement information about  the cost of the PPI.
As these premiums wouldve been paid on a regular  basis  from Mrs Ws current  account, in line with 
the specification in the loan agreement, no interest would  have been charged on these premiums.  But 
Mrs W would  have been  out of pocket  for the each premium every time it was paid. So HSBC need to 
work out 8% simple interest on each premium from the date it was paid until the date of final 
settlement. I estimate  this would be in the region of £300.00 dependent upon the date of settlement.
Unless further  evidence can be provided to show when the PPI actually  ended  then I would request 
HSBC to provide  new calculations for the compensation due to Mrs W in response to this provisional  
decision.
Ref: DRN93488075my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above I think that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay compensation  of £4.91  
per month  for the PPI cost for 34 months. It should also pay 8% simple interest on the amounts Mrs 
W was out of pocket from the date of each payment to the date of final settlement.
This is subject to any further information or evidence provided by the parties  before the date stated at 
the start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9348807