K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that an agent of Lloyds Bank PLC gave him the wrong information about  the 
balance outstanding on his account.  
background
Mr S made an arrangement to pay an outstanding debt with an agent of Lloyds.  He kept to 
that arrangement  and in July 2018 he decided to settle the debt in full. He says he phoned 
the agent to find out the full balance. He then altered his standing order  to that amount and 
cancelled it. He tells us he then received a letter from the agent confirmed his account had 
been settled. A few months later he was contacted to say there was an outstanding balance 
on his account.  
Lloyds said its agent didnt have a record of any contact with Mr S between  April and 
September 2018. And no record of any letter advising Mr S the account  had been settled.
The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds had dealt  with his complaint unfairly. There wasnt any 
evidence of the phone call or the letter from the agent. So he wasnt able to say Lloyds or 
the agent had done anything wrong.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen the records provided by the agent of Lloyds and they dont show any contact from 
Mr S in July 2018: although there  is a reference in January  2018  to him asking for the 
balance on his account at that point. 
Mr S says he didnt keep the letter  from the agent.  And at that stage  he didnt have itemised  
billing set up on his mobile phone.  So he wasnt able to give us any more information.
I can see how strongly Mr S feels about this but looking at all the available  evidence I dont 
have sufficient information to find that Lloyds agent gave Mr S the wrong figure for the 
outstanding balance in July 2018  or that it sent him a letter  confirming settlement. So I cant 
fairly find Lloyds did anything wrong.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Ref: DRN95123352Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9512335