K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Simplyhealth Access acted unfairly when changing the cover  and cost 
of her personal health plan insurance  over the years  shes  had it.
background
Ms C has a Simplyhealth Simply Cash Plan  which shes  had for a number  of years  this 
was previously provided by another company before it changed to Simplyhealth Access. The 
policy pays a cash a benefit towards  a number of health and wellbeing  items  detailed in the 
policy and gives Ms C access  to a 24/7 GP phoneline service.
Ms C complained to Simplyhealth in May 2019, she was unhappy that the cover for 
treatment or services received outside the UK was no longer available. The year before this 
Ms C also raised concerns about  the personal  accident benefit being removed from the 
policy. Yet despite  services being removed, the price of the insurance continued to increase 
year on year. She doesnt think this is fair or that Simplyhealth provided her with information 
about the changes with enough time to allow her to consider  these and make  an informed 
choice about whether  the policy was still right for her. 
The changes to the cover  took place from May 2019  and Ms C was also concerned that this 
impacted her renewal  month, moving  it from April to May and risked  her being left uninsured  
or paying more  than she should have for the month it changed.  
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs concerns and didnt think Simplyhealth  had acted 
unfairly. She explained Simplyhealth is entitled to change  the cover  it offers,  providing any 
changes are made in line with the terms and conditions for the account. One of these 
conditions means  any changes can only be affected from renewal  so it wouldnt able to 
change Ms Cs cover midway through her insurance. Therefore, when the policy  came up for 
renewal in April 2019, it let her know the policy number was changing going forward and how 
the benefits were  changing. She explained  this is why the renewal date moved from the end 
of April to the start of May too.
Our investigator also felt the price increases on the policy had been fair. She understood 
Ms Cs frustration at the cost increasing  as benefits were removed or changed  including  
the removal of things like free stamp  addressed envelopes for claims forms to be submitted. 
But she felt the price increases were based on how Simplyhealth  was changing how it 
viewed the risk and was reflective of the cost of the cover it provides increasing,  even if 
some benefits had been removed. 
Ms C didnt agree with our investigator. She said that it was unfair that a business has the 
option to change a policy as Simplyhealth  has and this has meant she can longer get the 
benefit she wanted from the policy. She doesnt have a high disposable income or access  to 
the internet and doesnt think Simplyhealth are considering how difficult  it will be for her to 
find an alternative policy which meets her needs  and is affordable.
As Ms C has disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
 
Ref: DRN91892962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Cs complaint.  I know how disappointing  this will be for her, so Ill explain how Ive 
reached this outcome.
Its important to be clear that it isnt the role of this service to tell a business  how to price the 
policies it offers  to do so would be interfering with their commercial  judgement   nor can 
we say what it should or shouldnt provide with the cover they offer. But we can check on 
individual complaints and make sure customers have been  treated fairly.
The crux of Ms Cs complaint is her belief  that it is unfair for Simplyhealth to change the 
insurance she has with it, reducing the benefits provided while increasing the cost. 
I understand why Ms C is frustrated with the changes  to her policy as its clear that over the 
last few years several things she found  useful, have  been removed. However, I agree with 
our investigator that Simplyhealth hasnt acted unfairly when it decided to remove  these or 
with how it made this change. Ill explain why I think this is the case.
The terms and conditions  for the account explain Simplyhealth can make changes  to the 
policy providing these  are made at the date of renewal. Simplyhealth  needs to give notice of 
the change and it says it will do this by writing to the postal address or email address 
provided  it doesnt  say how much notice it will give. So providing Simplyhealth makes  any 
changes in line with how it said it would, its not done anything wrong.
In March 2019 simply health wrote to Ms C at her address with the information about the 
changes to her policy. This explained  why her policy number was changing, as the policy 
moved from a rolling monthly contract to an annual one and that these changes would take 
effect from 1 May 2019. This allowed  the previous claims  cycle of April to April to expire and 
is the reason why the renewal date moved  from April to the 1 May.
Ms C hasnt said she didnt receive  this information and as it was sent a month  before the 
policy was due to renew  and I think  this can be considered to have given Ms C enough time 
to review the documents in line with expectations of ICOBs  which set out insurers should 
provide customers this information in good  time. In the calls Ms C had with Simplyhealth 
when raising her concerns about  the increase in price and removal of cover,  she said shed 
been away and would  be going  away again shortly. So while she might  not have reviewed 
the information sent to her as early  as March, I dont think  its fair to say this wasnt provided 
in good time.
Simplyhealth explained the reasons why it was removing the cover  for treatment and 
services outside of the UK  detailing the standard of service  is requires  and expects its 
policy holders to receive couldnt be guaranteed outside of the UK. Ultimately  it can decide 
what cover  it wants to provide and as the changes  were  made  in line with how the policy  
explains these could  be, I dont think Simplyhealth acted unfairly when it removed the cover.
The price  of Ms Cs policy has continued to increase  over the time shes had her cover  provided by 
Simplyhealth. It hasnt  increased every year but has seen increases in price in 2011,2012,2015 
and 2019. When  it first provided  the cover in 2010  it cost £38.85  per quarter - £155.4 per annum, 
inclusive of a number of benefits now removed which Ive mentioned previously. In 2019 when Ms 
C complained about  the price, it had risen  to £52.38 per quarter - £209.52.
Ref: DRN91892963Ive considered whether I think Simplyhealth has acted fairly  with how its priced Ms C policy 
and that the increases are in relation to its changing  view of the risk or increased costs. 
Ms C has engaged with both the cost of her insurance and the changes  to it regularly as 
price is important to her. Because  of this, I dont  think it would be fair to say Ms C is inert or 
that there  is a risk that price rises  could have  been applied because  it was unlikely they 
would be questioned or challenged. And when Ms C has engaged, Simplyhealth has 
explained why the changes have  been  made and price increases have still been  applied. 
Simplyhealth has explained  to me how the price increased overtime with three main factors 
affecting the price. These are claims inflation   the increasing costs of the services  it 
provides impacting the overall  value of the claims it pays out.  Product performance,  
Simplyhealth regularly  reviews its products  to ensure theyre within  loss ratio thresholds 
inline with its underwriting policy. And Insurance Premium Tax (IPT). 
Having considered the information provided, Im satisfied Simplyhealth  has treated Ms C 
fairly when  its increased the price of her policy. 
Ms Cs premium for her level of cover is the same as any other customer  on the same  
product and so the number of claims she makes  doesnt have an impact on the price  she 
pays. The price  increasing to allow  for claims inflation means it is moving inline with the view 
of the risk changing   ultimately as the cost of claims increases, the overall risk increases 
with greater exposure to higher costs. And although its likely this cost would increase each 
year, Simplyhealth doesnt review the product annually and this is why Ms C hasnt seen an 
increase for every year shes had her policy. And accrued inflation applied  when benefits 
have been removed that year can be worrying. But Simplyhealth  has said when the product 
is reviewed it will apply any accumulated increases  at that point. As the increase is related to 
the increases  in cost, I think this is fair.
Product performance is something  which all insurers take account  of. Ultimately with 
insurers being a commercial business they have profit and loss margins  they work  within  and 
Simplyhealth has explained,  if the product isnt performing within the loss ratio the price will 
be increased. As Ive said above, any increase would  be to all customers  with the same  
product and level of cover  and I think this is fair. It means Ms C isnt being treated differently 
to anyone else.
IPT rates are not set by Simplyhealth  and the cost of these increases, as with most 
insurances, are passed onto Ms C. Theres been  a number  of points in time were  the rate of 
IPT has increased and from the information  provided, Im satisfied these  have been  applied 
correctly to Ms Cs policy. 
I understand Ms C is upset her policy has had some  of the benefits  she used to have taken 
away while  the price  has increased. And its not unreasonable to assume that as some 
benefits are taken away the cost might reduce. But Im satisfied the price  increases have 
been applied  fairly and are representative of Simplyhealths view of the risk while  
maintaining the product stays within its loss ratios and so, I dont think its treated Ms C 
unfairly with how these have been  applied  even as the benefits  provided have changed.
Ref: DRN91892964Over the last five years Simplyhealth has said Ms C has received £256.00 more in claims 
than she has spent  in premiums for the policy. I know she feels  she is getting less and less 
benefit from the policy each year and this information may be useful to her in understanding  
the cost versus the benefit in recent years. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189296