K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC failed to return their title deeds after 
they redeemed  their mortgage.
background
The mortgage was repaid  on 11 December  2007.  Mr and Mrs G say they requested  their title 
deeds over the years  but never received them. They  say this prevented them  selling their 
house, and has recently  caused a problem as they had a boundary/land dispute with their 
neighbours.
Lloyds paid £2,000 compensation to Mr and Mrs G for the delay in telling them it didnt  have 
their deeds,  and said the deeds been  dematerialised in 2006.  An adjudicator looked at the 
complaint. He didnt  think Lloyds  had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I trust Mr and Mrs G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  This service  is impartial between,  and independent from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
For almost 80 years  after the passing  into law of the Law of Property Act 1925 and the 
Land Registration Act 1925, conveyancing was done on paper with processes and 
practices that were  the same for decades. Property  titles were registered in documents 
which were held by the owners or mortgagees. But since 2003  scanning and subsequent 
destruction (known as dematerialisation)  of documents became the required practice, as a 
result of the Land  Registration Act 2002,  which came into force  on 13 October 2003.  
Rule 203(6), Land  Registration Rules 2003,  makes provision for the destruction of original  
documents; an electronic image is deemed a sufficient copy and is used to produce official  
copies. This means  that paper documents are obsolete and are no longer  evidence of title. 
Given the passage  of time, its not possible to say with certainty what  happened  to the paper 
documents Lloyds  held.  But what I can see is that they werent  destroyed, as Mr and Mrs G 
believe, instead they were sent out by post on 15 February 2006 either to Mr and Mrs G 
directly or to a solicitor. Unfortunately as it happened so long ago we cant tell which party  
they were sent to, or the details of the solicitor (if it was indeed a solicitor  they were  sent to). 
There was no requirement  at that time for the deeds to be sent by any form of registered 
Ref: DRN94022992post, so I cant hold Lloyds liable for not holding more information about  the posting  of the 
deeds now over a decade later.
Its clear from Mr and Mrs Gs submissions that they cant remember  what  happened  in 
2006/07, which is entirely understandable considering how long ago it was But it also means 
I cant uphold this complaint based  on their testimony alone, as that has changed during the 
course of the complaint. In their original complaint to us Mr and Mrs G said Mortgage paid 
up in full  2006  on that date we (my husband & I) where [sic] told that our deeds  would be 
released, via post to us. But in response to our adjudicators assessment their recollections 
changed to On paying the mortgage  off we where [sic] told that the deeds could either be 
kept at the bank or sent to branch locally for collection. We agreed for them to be kept by the 
bank in a safe place  [] We signed  for Lloyds to keep them  safe 11-12-2007.
Whilst Mr and Mrs G say they dont remember receiving  a letter  in February 2006 about their 
deeds, I must keep  in mind theyve given us two directly opposing testimonies about what 
they were told would happen  to their deeds in 2006/07. When considering any complaint like 
this, as Mr and Mrs G are the ones bringing the complaint against Lloyds, to uphold  the 
complaint Mr and Mrs Gs version needs to be more likely than Lloyds version; not just as 
likely. Having considered  everything I cant say Mr and Mrs Gs version is anything more 
than just as likely, which isnt enough  for me to uphold  their complaint.
Its clear from the records that in February  2006  Lloyds  sent the deeds out either to 
Mr and Mrs G or to a solicitor, so it doesnt have the paper deeds and other documents 
Mr and Mrs G asked for. I cant  reasonably  require  Lloyds to provide  documents that it 
doesnt have,  nor can I award  compensation to Mr and Mrs G for it not having those 
documents.  
Lloyds accepts that it should have  told Mr and Mrs G the true position sooner and it paid 
£2,000 compensation for that. I think, in the circumstances,  that compensation paid by 
Lloyds is more than fair. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I find the compensation  paid by Lloyds  Bank PLC is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I make no other order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9402299