K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that First Payment Merchant Services Limited told him he has to pay to end 
his agreements for the hire of a card terminal and for card processing services.
background 
Mr M entered into the agreements for his business  in December 2016. He contacted 
First Payment about ending the agreements. In November 2018 it told him that he would 
need to pay an early termination  fee of £237.12, a closure fee of £100  and a total for 
minimum monthly charges of £200.  It then offered  to waive  the closure fee and reduce the 
minimum monthly charge  total to £150 and accept payments on a payment plan over six 
months.
The investigator did not recommend that it do more  than this. He said that the agreement  for 
the hire of the card terminal had a minimum term of 48 months. Mr M had said he wanted to 
end this when  there  was still over two years left. The charges were  fairly due.
Mr M did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.  He had previously  mentioned 
he was in financial difficulty and did not think he should make  payments as he is not using 
the services.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked First Payment to explain to me why Mr M was liable  to pay a minimum monthly  
charge if he ended the agreement. I wasnt clear  about the basis  for this from the 
documentation Id seen. I also wanted  to know how First Payment had taken account of what 
Mr M described as his financial difficulties in offering  a settlement.
First Payment accepted  that it did not have a basis to make  a monthly minimum charge. It 
confirmed to the investigator that it only expected Mr M to pay the early termination  fee. 
In the meantime Mr M has written to this service and said that he was still making payments 
to First Payment  while  this matter  was continuing.
As the investigator  said Mr M entered into a hire agreement with a minimum term of 
48 months. He is liable under the terms of that agreement to pay an early  termination fee if 
this agreement ends  before  the minimum term expires. This is based  on all the future hire 
payments due less a discount of five percent.  At 2 November 2018 that fee would have been 
£237.12. It will reduce each month until the agreement is terminated as further monthly 
payments become due.
Mr M was not satisfied to pay this especially when combined with the other fees which have 
since been removed.  I find he should now be able to terminate the agreement by paying 
£237.12 less any payments  he has made to First Payment since  2 November 2018 for 
terminal hire or processing.  That puts him in the position he ought to have been in when he 
asked for the agreements  to be terminated.
Ref: DRN94468232First Payment has agreed he can make  the payment over six months  to reflect  his financial 
difficulties and I think thats fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require First Payment Merchant Services 
Limited to:
1)Terminate the agreements for terminal hire and payment processing for a fee of 
£237.12 less any payments  Mr M has made  to it in relation to those  agreements  
since 2 November 2018.
2)Accept payment  of the net amount due from (1) above in monthly equal amounts 
over six months with the first payment due one month  after Mr Ms acceptance of this 
settlement.
3)Remove any adverse  credit information recorded in relation to his payment record  for 
these agreements since November  2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9446823