K820x#14complaint
Miss T is unhappy that a fraudster was able to use an account she had with 
Creation Financial Services Limited.
background
Miss T has an account with Creation Financial  Services  Limited  which she can use to 
purchase goods from a retailer  on credit. In August 2018, a fraudster took control of her 
account and used it to spend  extensively. She told Creation about what had happened 
straight away. It said it would correct the balance on her account and ensure that nothing 
was recorded  on her credit file as a result of the fraud.  
Miss T is unhappy with the way that Creation handled  things and so she complained to 
them. She says that:
Creation shouldve taken greater care to prevent her account  being taken over by 
fraudsters. For example, she says that when the contact details on the account were  
changed, there ought to be have been additional  verification checks to make sure 
that the request had come from her. 
She also says that the spending on the account  was out of character with her typical 
use of it. She thinks Creation shouldve monitored the use of the account more  
carefully in order to prevent the fraud from occurring  in the first place.
The fraud has caused a significant  inconvenience to her. Shes had lengthy  phone 
conversations with Creation in order to ensure that things are put right. She was also 
told incorrectly that she was free to make use of her account again  which  resulted in 
her making a long trip to the retailer where she was told her account was frozen.
She says a member  of staff at Creation attempted  to contact her using the contact  
details of the person who had taken over her account.
Shes continued to receive letters from the retailer  in connection with the goods that 
were purchased by the fraudsters  for example, letters telling her that warranties 
associated with those  goods were about  to expire.
She also says that, despite Creation promising to remove  any negative information  
from her credit file, that didnt  happen  for an extremely  long period of time. She says 
that, since she was a victim of fraud,  shes been turned down for a credit card with 
one other business and was able to arrange  another at a much higher interest rate 
than shed have  expected. 
Creation has agreed to reduce the balance on her account to £0. It says £255.35 of the 
balance represented  genuine spending by her but that it was willing to waive this as a 
gesture of goodwill.
It also said that the adverse information that was still on her credit file six months after the 
original fraud  related  to late payments that she made in connection with genuine borrowing 
by her. Nonetheless,  it agreed to remove this information from Miss Ts credit file, although it 
insisted it had been correct to record it. 
Ref: DRN95793112Miss Ts complaint was looked  at by an investigator. The investigator agreed that Creation 
hadnt handled things as well as it shouldve done,  but it had agreed to waive  a debt of over 
£250 and remove  negative information  from her credit file that didnt relate to the complaint. 
The investigator thought this was a fair way of putting things right.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators opinion. Shes unhappy that Creation no longer 
has records of the phone  calls she says mustve been made to the fraudster. She also says 
that the fraud has had a negative impact  on her credit score.  Because Miss T disagreed with 
the investigators opinion, the case has been  passed  to me to come to a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Once it recognised  that Miss T had been a victim of fraud, Creation needed to correct  her 
account and put it in the position  it wouldve  been  in had the fraudulent  spending not 
happened. I think it did so. It removed the spending  from her account and also removed any 
negative information  regarding that spending  from her credit file.
Miss T sent the investigator  evidence  to show that there was still adverse  information  
recorded on her credit  file by Creation.  However, I can see that this related to missed 
payments on the account between December 2018 and April 2019. Payments on the 
account were due on the 1st of each month  but several of Miss Ts payments came later than 
that. Creation  has explained that these  payments  were in connection  with the last genuine 
purchases Miss T made on the account in 2017  prior to the fraud. It has since  said that it will 
remove this late payment information from Miss Ts credit file even though they werent 
connected with the fraud  that Miss T was a victim of.
Theres no doubt that Miss T was the victim of a cruel fraud  here. Ensuring that things were 
put right mustve been a source  of significant  distress and inconvenience. The overwhelming 
bulk of that distress and inconvenience was caused by the fraudsters, not by Creation. But I 
agree that Creation did make things more difficult. Id expect it to pay her a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation to recognise these difficulties. It agreed to remove the 
outstanding balance on her account   effectively writing off the outstanding  amount  of 
£255.35. I think this is a fair sum in the circumstances.
other issues
Miss T says that her credit score  has been  negatively impacted. Shes mentioned  being  
turned down for a credit card and only being accepted  for another with a high rate of interest.  
But these  applications  were made  after Creation removed the late payment records  from her 
credit file  so these  werent a result  of anything that Creation did. 
Miss T also says that she thinks  a Creation employee was attempting  to contact her using 
the contact details of the fraudster. Creation has provided us with records  of telephone calls 
made at the time and all of the outbound  calls made by that particular member of staff, and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. 
Miss T is unhappy that she has continued to receive correspondence about  warranties  
connected with the goods purchased by the fraudsters. But from what  Ive seen, these letters  
Ref: DRN95793113were sent by the seller of the goods, rather than Creation  which was only the provider  of the 
underlying finance. I dont  think  it would be reasonable  to expect Creation to pay her 
additional compensation because of the distress  caused by the actions of another business. 
I recognise how strongly Miss T feels about this complaint. And whilst Im sorry to have to 
disappoint her, Im satisfied that the steps Creation  has taken to put things right are fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9579311