K820x#14complaint
Mr B isnt happy with how Charles & Fitch  Limited has dealt with his pension  and other  
investments.  
background
Mr B has made several complaints about the service  provided by Charles  & Fitch. In 
summary he considers  Charles & Fitch  didnt give proper attention to his investments and 
failed to recommend  fund switches across his pensions. Hes also complained  about the 
investment strategy  in respect of his ISA.
Mr Bs complaints were  investigated by one of our investigators. He issued a detailed view 
on 17 January 2020. What he said was necessarily a summary  as Mr Bs dealings with 
Charles & Fitch date back to 2007. Mr B isnt complaining about the initial  advice he was 
given. Charles & Fitch reviewed Mr Bs pensions and other investments annually. Mr B is 
unhappy with what happened in more  recent  years, from about 2014 onwards.  In particular 
he says he wasnt advised to switch out of what he considers were clearly  underperforming 
funds. And hes lost out on investment  growth  of about £6,500 in consequence.   
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Mr B had been  invested line with his 
risk profile throughout his time with Charles & Fitch. The charges had been in line with usual  
industry levels and Mr B had benefitted  from some competitive fee arrangements.
The investigator said that poor performance wasnt necessarily evidence  that an investment 
wasnt suitable. It was easy, with hindsight, to say things should  have  been  done differently. 
Since Mr B had been managing his funds himself hed done better. But that didnt 
automatically mean Charles  & Fitch had been doing  anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said:
Hed engaged  Charles & Fitch  to look after his investments. For years the Investec 
UK Special  Situations Fund had bubbled along  the bottom of the market. A switch  
should have been  recommended by at least 2017. The Rathbone Global 
Opportunities Fund and the three other  funds  had consistently exceeded the Investec 
Fund. He wasnt a professional but hed achieved  better results  than by following 
Charles & Fitchs  recommendations. 
The adviser had lost sight of Mr Bs investments.  Thats evidenced by what 
happened with the delayed annual review and the lack of service after January 2019. 
He was told to hold off investing £5,000  because  the adviser wanted to review  the 
pension portfolio. When Mr B pressed to invest  as the market was rising, he was told 
to make the investment himself. 
Hed quantified his loss at about  £6,500   the approximate difference between  the 
value of the Rathbone Global  Opportunities  Fund and the Investec  UK Special 
Situations Fund when he switched. His four pension  funds are closely aligned  as are 
his four ISA funds.
He didnt recall the details  of the pension switch  report  the investigator  had referred 
to. But, even without  that report, simply looking at the performance charts would have 
shown that the Investec Fund  was underperforming the market. 
He also mentioned that one of the ISA funds  Gam Star  had gone into 
administration. 
Ref: DRN95563642We asked Charles & Fitch for its comments on what Mr B had said.  It said:
The Investec UK Special Situations Fund  uses a value based, contrarian approach to 
selecting investments.  In the 2019  calendar year it provided a return of 29% (net of 
fees). Thats higher  than any of the funds Mr B chose for his new plan. It has 
outperformed the IA UK All Companies sector in three of the last five calendar years.  
Over the three years  to 30 September 2019,  the Fund provided annualised returns  of 
7% pa, outperforming  both the FTSE All Share Index TR and the IA UK All 
Companies sector. Reference was also made to a Morningstar analysis of the Fund. 
The importance of a diversified investment approach had always  been stressed  to 
Mr B. The funds  hes chosen himself are almost entirely invested in equities  and 
expose him to risks he cant afford  to take.  
Annual review meetings have taken place in each  and every  year since 2008. Other  
than in 2008 and 2009 when  they were  in October, these meetings were in 
November or December in accordance with Mr Bs requirements as this is when his 
business is at its quietest. It was agreed  that the review meeting due in 
November/December 2018 should  be deferred to January  2019 as by then Mr B was 
aware of the advisers plans to join the new firm.
Mr B didnt  give any instruction about a £5,000 pension contribution at the meeting 
on 24 January 2019. He usually  makes this contribution within  days of his trading 
year end on 31 March. The transaction summary for the relevant pension 
arrangement confirms that. 
At the annual review  meeting on 24 January 2019 the adviser explained  that, to 
become a client of the new firm, Mr B would need to sign a financial planning 
agreement as well as change of agency  instruction forms. Mr B wasnt happy with the 
new firms charges  and wanted  to consider  his options. The new firm wasnt  in a 
position to make  a recommendation  to Mr B. The adviser highlighted to Mr B that he 
could make the pension contribution on an execution only basis. It later became clear 
that the contribution couldnt  be accepted on that basis. Mr B made a complaint 
about the delay and the new firm made  a nominal  payment  to him, presumably in the 
hope hed become  a client. In the end the pension  contribution had to be processed 
through Charles & Fitchs agency even  though  the company had by then been  
acquired by the new firm. 
GAM Star was one of the investments  chosen by Quilter  Cheviot for Mr Bs stocks 
and shares ISA. Hed complained to Quilter Cheviot  about it. 
my findings   
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint  Mr B but Im unable to uphold his complaint. My 
views and reasoning  are largely  the same as the investigators. I dont have much to add to 
whats already been  said.  Especially as the investigator set out in some detail what had 
happened and why he was unable to recommend  that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I 
think what the investigator said was fair and reasonable. Ive also borne in mind  that when 
Mr B complained it was identified that some fees could have been saved and redress  
totalling £2,391.32 has been paid to Mr B. A payment  in respect of the delay in connection 
with the pension contribution in 2019 has also been mentioned.  
Ref: DRN95563643A very considerable  amount of documentation has been provided. And a large number of 
issues have been  raised. Ive focused on what seem to be the main outstanding issues  and 
why Mr B didnt agree  with what the investigator had said.   
As the investigator  noted, it can be easy, with the benefit  of hindsight, to say that different 
investment decisions  should  have been  made. I can understand why Mr B might point to his 
success in selecting  investments  himself. But investment performance is usually only a 
snapshot and can generally  only fairly be judged over the longer term.  
And, again as the investigator  has explained,  perceived poor investment performance wont 
necessarily mean a complaint should  be upheld.  Its inevitable  that certain funds will 
outperform others.  The fact that a fund may not have done  as well as another wont of itself 
mean theres  a problem  or that a fund switch  should  have been  recommended.  
In the absence of other factors, such as any concerns over how a fund has been invested  or 
managed (and which may not ground a complaint against an adviser) or that the charges 
were excessive, we tend to approach a complaint about investment performance from the 
perspective of whether  a fund was suitable  for the investor  and not whether an alternative 
investment might have  been selected which might  have  performed better. Assessing 
suitability will involve factors such as if the fund (and taken as part of the portfolio as a 
whole) matched  the investors attitude  to risk and was consistent with his capacity for loss. 
That said,  wed expect an adviser  who is reviewing a portfolio  to identify if a particular, and 
ostensibly, suitable fund, has underperformed. The adviser should  then look into the reasons 
for any apparent  under performance and which would inform a decision to retain the 
investment or take other action. But a decision to switch wont always be an obvious  call. 
Mr B is clearly  particularly unhappy with the performance of the Investec UK Special 
Situations Fund and feels a switch out should  have  been recommended.  But given  whats 
been said about that Fund and its overall performance, I dont agree necessarily agree that it 
should have been identified as an underperforming investment. 
It seems  Mr Bs concerns  stem from the fact that the Rathbone Global Opportunities Fund 
has done better. Its accepted it has outperformed the Investec UK Special Situations  Fund.  
But that doesnt mean that sort of comparison can properly be made. As the investigator 
pointed out, the two Funds arent correlated and were specifically chosen because  they have 
different investment objectives and are managed differently. I agree with whats been  said 
about the importance of diversification. And that an over exposure to equities may mean an 
unbalanced portfolio which doesnt match the investors attitude to risk or capacity for loss. 
Looking at the other points Mr B has raised, hes said he doesnt remember the details 
around the switch  report the investigator had mentioned. It seems  in November 2017 it was 
proposed that Mr Bs personal pension plans  should be reviewed,  with a view to 
consolidating them into one plan but Mr B was unhappy with the cost of the report. I dont 
see that Charles & Fitch  can be criticised  for failing to carry out work for which Mr B wasnt 
prepared to pay. 
I note the annual review  due in 2018 didnt take place until January 2019. The adviser says 
that was by agreement, given his plans to join the new firm. But even  if that wasnt the case, 
if annual reviews normally took place each year in November or December, I wouldnt  say 
that a delay of a month or so was significant.  
Ref: DRN95563644The adviser says he offered  to provide a review of the pension  plans that had been  
discussed in November 2017 on a free of charge basis. But Mr B didnt  take up that offer and 
didnt sign a financial planning agreement with the new firm so the review  again didnt 
happen. 
Its not entirely clear  what happened about the further £5,000 investment. Mr B says he 
wanted to invest  urgently.  But the adviser says Mr B didnt give any instruction at the review  
meeting on 24 January  2019 so I assume  the matter was raised later.  
I think the timing  given  the advisers  pending move to the new firm  was unfortunate. As 
Ive said, it seems the adviser  wanted to review  Mr Bs pension  plans generally. I dont think  
its unreasonable to say that it would have been better for that to have been done first and 
then Mr B advised about making the further  contribution. But, as Mr B didnt become a client  
of the new firm, it wasnt able to assist him with a review or making the contribution. 
The adviser accepts  he did suggest  that Mr B make the contribution himself  that is on an 
execution only basis, although, in the end, that didnt work. I think the suggestion was a 
genuine attempt  to help Mr B do what he wanted  to do although I can understand why Mr B 
may have  viewed it as unhelpful. 
Mr B was unhappy that he hadnt  been  kept informed by Charles  & Fitch about the GAM Star 
Fund. But I dont see that Charles & Fitch  is responsible for what happened with that Fund or 
that what Charles & Fitch  did (or didnt  do) made  any difference to the fact that the Fund  was 
wound up. I think Mr B has complained to the correct entity about that Fund.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556364