K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about fourteen payday loans Quick Quid provided to Mr S from December 
2008 onwards.  Mr S last loan was provided in November 2012.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr S complaint  and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view in full. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr S could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Ref: DRN92830022As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans four and five would most likely 
have shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mr S low monthly 
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr S wouldnt have 
been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing  further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr S, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr S was unlikely to have been able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr S was into his ninth month  of owing  Quick Quid  money. In my view,  
Mr S loan history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his inability 
to settle his loans over the life of the credit  agreement   hed incurred late fees on 
loan four and loan five. Mr S sixth loan was for around the same  amount his 
repayment history suggested  he was having  difficulty repaying.   
Mr S continued to be provided  with new loans shortly after having  repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr S was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr S indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr S was provided with loans  for a period  of almost four years.  I accept that some of 
the loans were for smaller  amounts. But Mr S wasnt making any real inroads into 
what he owed Quick  Quid and his indebtedness  was being prolonged for an 
extended period  of time. This led to Mr S paying  large amounts of interest  to, in 
effect, service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan three  
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr S indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr S owed Quick  Quid money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr S complaint and Quick  Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans four to fourteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr S owed Quick Quid money  means that any information still 
recorded about loans six to fourteen  is adverse.  So all entries about these loans 
(where they remain) should be removed from Mr S credit file.
Ref: DRN92830023 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr S complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9283002