K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains the Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund him for a failed  ATM 
cash withdrawal.
background
Mr M was going abroad on holiday. On the day of his departure, he received a text message 
from RBS asking him to confirm a payment to the hotel.  It had also blocked his card.  He 
confirmed the payment  was genuine and RBS lifted the block.  However, as a precaution, 
Mr M decided to withdraw cash for his holiday.  
He went to an ATM machine and requested £250  but the machine didnt dispense the cash. 
Mr M said he inserted his card a second time. A message appeared on the screen  advising 
him to contact his bank.  He didnt speak to the ATM  owner, as he needed to get to the 
airport. 
When he arrived at the airport, he tried twice to withdraw £200  in cash but both transactions 
were declined because  he had exceeded  the daily limit of £400. He succeeded on a third 
attempt to withdraw £20. He checked  his balance online  and saw that the first transaction for 
£250 had debited his account.
He reported the failed  transaction  to RBS the same day. RBS told him it would credit  his 
account with the money within 48 hours.  So he was expecting  a refund.
However, RBS decided not to refund him. It said there were no errors with the ATM. But it 
did pay him compensation of £50 for not acknowledging and responding to two of his letters.
Mr M wasnt happy with the banks  decision  so he brought  his complaint to this service. He 
said RBS should  have got the CCTV footage from the ATM owner.
An investigator looked into his complaint but she felt unable to uphold  it. She said the 
transaction log for the ATM  showed that the cash had been dispensed. She also explained 
that there  was no longer any CCTV footage so she based her view on the available  
evidence. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  and the 
evidence. Both Mr M and RBS have  read the investigators view,  so I wont repeat every 
detail here,  only those which form the basis  of my decision. However, I can assure both that 
Ive read the file, including  their comments and evidence. Having done so, Im afraid Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
RBS obtained  the transactions log for the ATM from the ATM owner. Ive looked at the log. It 
shows that Mr M inserted  his card at 10.26, entered his PIN and the cash  was dispensed  at 
Ref: DRN9260648210.27. The log shows the following denominations were dispensed  1x £10 and 12 x £20. It 
records that the notes  were taken.
The log also shows that another  customer used  the ATM immediately before Mr M. And two 
customers used the ATM shortly after Mr M. The first of these two customers used the ATM 
within two minutes of Mr Ms transaction. Despite  Mr M saying he made  a second attempt, 
theres no record of him doing so at this machine.
The ATM owner also provided details  of the running balance for the ATM. The difference  in 
the balance before and after Mr Ms transaction was £250. This is consistent  with a 
successful cash withdrawal for £250.
The investigator asked  for evidence from the purge bin. Faulty  or trapped  notes are sent to 
the purge  bin. The ATM owner confirmed that there was £70 in the purge bin but it was there  
before Mr M used the machine.  According  to the transaction log, no notes were sent to the 
purge bin when Mr M used the machine.
Lastly, there were no other faults  reported to the ATM owner and it appears  the other 
customers used the machine  without complaint. And even Mr M didnt notice anything 
unusual or suspicious  with the ATM.
Ive considered what Mr M had to say. His actions were consistent with his claim of not 
receiving the cash. He tried twice to withdraw  £200, but the transactions were declined 
because the sum took him over his daily limit, which he would have known if hed withdrawn 
£250. He also had a healthy  balance in his account and no reason  to make a false  claim. 
The one inconsistency  is that he said he tried a second time to withdraw  £250.  This isnt 
borne out by the transactions log.
Ultimately, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable  based  on the evidence before me. 
Unfortunately, for Mr M, the technical reports do provide strong and compelling evidence  that 
the ATM dispensed the cash. Its possible the cash was dispensed and collected by a third 
party after hed left the ATM or that he was the victim of a diversion scam, although this isnt 
what he says happened. But even if this did happen, then that would be a case of ordinary 
theft, not an unauthorised transaction or error.
Based on the evidence,  Im afraid I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to ask RBS to 
refund the £250.
I am very sorry  to send such disappointing  news and I appreciate  that this has been a 
frustrating experience for Mr M but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Razia Karim
Ref: DRN92606483ombudsman
Ref: DRN9260648