K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Home  Retail  Group Card Services Limited, trading as 
Argos Card Services (Argos)  failed to send him statements and this resulted in him 
defaulting on his account.
background
Mr A took out a store card with Argos in November  2016. He received monthly statements in 
the post and as he had on-line access he was also able to view statements over the internet.
In April 2018 Mr A says he didnt receive a statement  and this led to him missing a payment 
and a default being logged against  him which he says has been affecting his credit  rating.
Argos didnt think theyd  done anything wrong. They explained  that in March some 
correspondence was returned to them that suggested Mr A was no longer at the address 
they had for him. They put a block on sending any other post to him and that meant the 
statement of 27 March  wasnt sent.  But they removed the block  when Mr A confirmed he still 
lived at the address. So Argos said that subsequent statements were  sent.
They explained that no default had been issued or reported to Mr As credit file but they said 
they had reported late payments to the credit file as Mr A hadnt  made  sufficient payments in 
April, May, June, July or August 2018.  
Mr A was dissatisfied with their response  so he referred his complaint to this service and our 
investigator provided her opinion. She thought Argos had acted fairly when blocking further 
mail and she was persuaded  that it was most likely statements had subsequently been  sent 
to Mr A and Argos had therefore  fulfilled its obligations. She noted the address they had for 
him was the correct  address. So she didnt  think it would be reasonable to ask Argos to take 
any further action.
But Mr A disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Argos accept they didnt deliver  a statement in March  as they had blocked 
sending out any further mail whilst they investigated whether Mr A still lived at the address 
they had on file for him.
Ref: DRN92046352I think that was a reasonable response. The postal service had suggested Mr A wasnt  there 
anymore and they would not have wanted  to send mail to the wrong  place. 
I can see that the address was checked and Argos resumed sending  statements in April.  Ive 
looked at the address they used and can see its the one we have registered for Mr A. 
Argos have confirmed their automated systems  sent statements to this address prior to 
March 2018 and from April 2018. I think that was most likely to be the case  as:
Mr As address hadnt changed and he doesnt  dispute receiving statements prior to 
March 2018;
Mr A made some payments to his account in the months after April 2018.  The 
payments varied which  I think  its fair to suggest  means he was probably aware of 
the balance on the account;  
Mr A had registered for on line access and I think its fair to suggest that even  if 
statements werent received he would have  been able to view payment requirements 
on line.
So Im not persuaded that its most likely Mr A didnt receive statements after April 2018  and 
I dont think Argos were  unreasonable  when suspending correspondence after receiving 
advice that Mr A may no longer be at the address they had for him. And in those 
circumstances I dont  think  it would  be fair to ask Argos to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9204635