K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim under her furniture warranty.
background
Miss S bought  a nest of oak tables and took out a furniture warranty underwritten by Great 
Lakes which  covers stains,  accidental  damage and structure.  The first year after 
purchase was covered  by a manufacturers  warranty. 
Around and year and a half later,  Miss S made a claim to Great Lakes after a split appeared 
in the surface  of the largest  of the tables.
Great Lakes declined the claim.  They said the damage would have manifested itself within 
the manufacturers warranty which meant it was excluded from the cover  they provided.  
They also referred  to another  exclusion for damage consistent with wear and tear or 
anything that happens gradually.
Miss S complained to Great Lakes but their position  didnt  change so she brought  her 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked  into it and didnt think Great Lakes had done 
anything wrong.
Miss S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ss warranty are set out clearly. As Great  Lakes said, they 
do exclude from cover both structural defects  first discovered during the manufacturers 
warranty period  and wear and tear or anything that happens gradually.
Neither of those exclusions is hidden within the policy terms and conditions   which  are quite 
brief and straightforward. And neither exclusion is unusual or particularly onerous.  Many  
policies like this one are designed to cover  damage  from one-off or sudden accidents but will 
not cover  longer term damage or wear and tear.
If either  one of those  exclusions applies in this case,  Great Lakes are entitled to decline the claim.
In their explanations  to Miss S, Great  Lakes have tended to focus  more  on the exclusion for 
defects first discovered during the manufacturers warranty period  (the first 12 months). 
They pointed out shed admitted seeing a small defect in the table on delivery   something 
Miss S described as looking like a part of the natural grain of the wood, but which later 
developed into an obvious split.
I think its debatable  whether  it would be fair to decline Miss Ss claim on the basis that she 
should have recognised this as a structural defect in the table at the time.  However,  I dont 
think I need to resolve that debate because I think the other exclusion  relating to gradual  
damage or wear and tear - does apply. And that being the case, I think  Great Lakes are 
entitled to decline  the claim. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN98843092Miss S does admit to seeing something in the table which she thought at the time was no 
more than a part of the natural grain of the wood. More than 18 months later,  this has 
developed into an obvious split in the tables surface.
Miss S was given some literature at the time she bought the tables which  points out that 
natural wood may split  and thats  part of the character of furniture made from that material.  
But leaving  that aside,  it appears very likely  that the small defect or exaggerated  grain  she 
admits to seeing did develop into the wider split.
I dont think Miss S is claiming the split suddenly appeared overnight in her table   or came 
about as the result of some specific event or accident. 
To be frank, it would be very odd if the split did suddenly appear unless something specific   
dropping the table,  or dropping something else on the table, or putting stress  on it by falling 
on it or pushing it hard into the wall, for example  had occurred. And Miss S hasnt at any 
point claimed that there was such an event or incident that might  have led to the split.
In that case, almost by definition, the split will have  gradually increased in size  to the point 
where Miss S begun  to find it unacceptable. And if the split increased  in size gradually,  then 
it is excluded from the cover provided  by the policy. The exclusion which  says damage 
occurring gradually  is not covered will legitimately  and properly  apply.
I am sorry  Miss S has had this trouble with the table she bought.  But I have to conclude on 
balance that the damage  most  likely occurred gradually and so is excluded from the cover 
provided by Great Lakes. The exclusion which theyve applied to Miss Ss claim was  or 
should have been  clearly apparent to her when she bought  the warranty. And I dont think 
theres anything inherently  unfair or unreasonable about that exclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884309