K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Skipton Building  Society  didnt assist him in his financial difficulties and 
in an individual  voluntary arrangement (IVA) by offering him a mortgage product with a 
reduced rate of interest.  Mr P would like compensation for this loss of opportunity and an 
apology.
background
In January 2018 Mr P completed  an IVA but had some  difficulties  paying  his mortgage and 
asked Skipton about reducing his monthly  payments. Skipton offered him the facility of 
moving to a mortgage product which reduced  his interest only monthly payment significantly. 
Mr P feels  that Skipton should  have offered him this choice when he was in the IVA and that 
would have saved  him £20,000. 
Skipton says that Mr P made contact from time to time to make short term arrangements  
when he had immediate  issues  with paying  his mortgage. It says that although Mr P was on 
an IVA he didnt indicate that he was struggling  to make a payment  each  month. In 2016  it 
says that it did offer to discuss new rates with Mr P if he contacted  them but he failed to do 
so. Our adjudicator  didnt believe that Skipton had done anything wrong and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. Mr P disagreed saying in summary that he 
doesnt accept  that because  he was able to meet the short  term arrangements  that he wasnt  
in financial difficulties and wants  the complaint reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P was in an IVA which he successfully completed. At times during this period he had a 
short term difficulty which Skipton and he managed to overcome with short term solutions. I 
believe that Mr Ps overarching point is that as he was in an IVA and at times  in arrears it 
should have been obvious that he was in financial difficulty. So he believes that he should 
have been offered a new discounted mortgage product as he has been offered now. 
In my experience such discounted mortgage  products  arent available to customers  in 
arrears. This is because a mortgage  product will contain an early  repayment clause which  
will increase  the amount  that a customer will owe if he or she is unable to meet  the monthly 
payments. As an arrears situation  indicates  that a customer is unable  to meet their monthly 
payments such products  arent generally  made  available to customers in that situation.
It seems  that when Mr P contacted Skipton and in arrears it didnt offer him a discounted 
product. For the reasons referred to above, I dont find that unusual  or unfair. When  Mr P 
was not in arrears  and enquired about  a discounted  product, Skipton did provide him with 
information about access to such products. But I noted that on several occasions Mr P didnt 
progress the matter further.  In particular, I noted that in 2016  the Skipton customer  adviser 
told Mr P that it could discuss new rates if he contacted the relevant team but Mr P doesnt 
seem to have progressed that. So, its difficult for me to find Skipton at fault for that. I am 
pleased that Mr P has been  able to manage an IVA and I appreciate that it must have been  
Ref: DRN99001612a financial struggle for him to do so. But after examining the evidence  I dont  believe  that 
Skipton has done  any thing  wrong and I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9900161