K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC gave her incorrect information  from the start about  
her application  for a Home Purchase  Plan and that the application took too long.  Ms N says 
that if she had got the right information she wouldnt  have paid a number of fees. Ms N 
would like these fees refunded and compensation.
background
Ms N intended buying a property in the summer  of 2018. She got an agreement in principle 
for a Home  Purchase  Plan (HPP) on 30 April 2018 and submitted an application on 18 May 
2018. Ms N says she discussed during  the application with her then business  development 
manager (BDM) that the child tax credit  and child benefit income could be offset against 
child care costs to meet  affordability.  This was not standard  bank policy but Ms N says that 
the BDM told her that it would be fine. To do this the BDM would have to apply for an 
exception to the banks policy. Al Rayan instructed a valuer on 18 May and received the 
valuers report on 6 June. The bank sent the application to its underwriters the same day but 
they didnt commence an assessment until 10 July because of a backlog.
After assessment, the underwriters failed the application as it didnt meet  the banks 
affordability criteria. Al Rayan told Ms N that it could go ahead  for a lower amount  and with 
further information. On 25 July another BDM asked Ms N for further  information  about a buy 
to let property. On 8 August a BDM contacted Ms N to ask about the child care costs and the 
sale of the buy to let to meet affordability.  At this time the BDM told Ms N that he would apply 
for an exception to offset child care costs and tax credit and child benefit  income.  But Al 
Rayan declined to make an exception and didnt  proceed with the application. Ms N had in 
the meantime  appointed  a solicitor to act for her in the purchase of the house she hoped to 
buy with the loan.
The bank accepted that there had been  an operational delay in reviewing the HPP 
application and offered  compensation  of £50. It later also offered to refund the application 
and valuation fee. Our adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  He 
felt that the initial  BDM had told Ms N that the child care costs could be offset  against  the 
income from child benefit and child tax credits. As this wasnt bank policy,  our adjudicator  felt 
that the BDM should have  requested an exception before the application was submitted but 
this wasnt done  until 8 August. He also felt that there were delays in the process but Ms N 
wasnt made aware of these. As a result she instructed a solicitor in order to keep  the 
property off the market.  Our adjudicator recommended  that the bank refund the fees that Ms 
N paid including  the solicitors costs and pay her £500 compensation. Al Rayan disagreed  
and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several elements to Ms Ns complaint. Firstly she appears to have been  assured 
that although the banks  policy  in assessing  affordability was not to give credit for 
government benefits,  that it wouldnt be an issue for her as an exception  would be granted 
allowing her to set her child tax credit  and child benefit income against her childcare costs  
The application seems  to have been processed  on the basis that it in fact wouldnt be an 
Ref: DRN97925122issue. But unfortunately not until late in the process  - August in fact - did the BDM apply for 
an exception and it wasnt granted. 
Although this issue was discussed on 18 May 2018,  no application was submitted by the 
new BDM for such an exception until 8 August 2018  and it was declined on 16 August. Ms 
Ns point is that had the exception being applied for at the start and refused, she would have 
known that she wasnt getting the mortgage and wouldnt have incurred the fees and costs 
she did incur or expended  the time in gathering up the further information that Al Rayan 
requested. 
The other related  issue is one of delay and managing  Ms Ns expectations. Al Rayan 
accepts that there was a delay of just over a month between the application being sent to the 
underwriters and their commencing work  on the application because  of operational reasons. 
Ms N would have reasonably assumed  that the bank  was processing her application  as 
normal and wasnt told of the backlog causing the delay.
The underwriters declined  the application  on 10 July 2018 on a number of grounds which 
Mrs N was able to quickly attend to. The problem was that the affordability depended on Ms 
Ns ability to offset. I see that the banks  internal email of 21 February  2018  notes that the 
application ends  on 16 August 2018 with the exception  being refused:  This resulted in the 
decline decision to remain as it highlighted the incorrect assessment of offsetting childcare 
costs 
So, the bank persisted  with an incorrect assessment of these costs through  the summer 
when it could have  dealt with the issue at the start of the application.  As it didnt  do that I can 
understand how Ms N expected that her application would be successful. I appreciate that 
after the underwriters  got round to considering the application, it was turned down. But it 
seems that Ms N was able to successfully respond  to the problems which  the underwriters 
identified in July until they highlighted the offsetting  issue which  was against bank policy.
The bank accepts  that Ms Ns fees should be refunded although it doesnt agree that it 
should pay her solicitors fees. Although  Ms N engaged the solicitor  without the authority  of 
the bank, I consider that the BDM led her to believe that the mortgage wouldnt be a 
problem. The bank  didnt  alert Ms N until late in the process that there was a problem, that 
the offsetting application hadnt been  made and that there was a delay in Al Rayan  
processing the mortgage. In those circumstances I dont consider that it was unreasonable  
for Mrs N to have engaged a solicitor to protect her interests and that on balance  Al Rayan 
should compensate  Ms N for the solicitors costs of the aborted  purchase.
I also accept that Ms N attached a great deal of importance to this product and that waiting  
for the mortgage  application to be processed through  the summer must  have been very 
frustrating for her. Ms N says that she suffered a great deal of stress  because the BDM in 
May told her that an exception to Al Rayans policy would  be made only to be told in August 
that it hadnt been applied  for and that she wasnt going to get the mortgage for the property 
that Im sure throughout  the summer she hoped  to buy. That must have been  very 
disappointing and distressing to Ms N and in those circumstances  I agree  that compensation 
of £500 is appropriate. For the above  reasons I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN97925123my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Al Rayan Bank  Plc to pay Ms N £1,546 
being her application fee, valuation fee and solicitors  fee totalling  £1,146  together  with £500 
for her trouble and upset  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9792512