K821x#15complaint
Miss G says Quidie Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background
It appears that Quidie  approved six loans for Miss G between  around August 2015 and 
March 2016. There is uncertainty  about this as Quidie hasnt responded to any of this 
services requests for information.
In the absence of any information  from Quidie, Ive relied on the information Miss G has 
provided about her loans  supported by her bank statements.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of all the loans. Miss G 
agreed with this outcome. Quidie didnt respond  and so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations and guidance include the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). CONC contains rules and guidance for lenders about 
responsible lending. Among other things, CONC says lenders should carry out affordability 
checks which are proportionate in the circumstances of the loan. The regulations also say 
repayments should be sustainable (i.e. repayable from the borrowers income or savings) 
and that lenders shouldnt  allow a borrower to enter  into consecutive  credit agreements 
where it would  be unsustainable  to do so.
Id usually start by considering whether Quidie carried out proportionate affordability checks. 
And only if I thought  it didnt, Id move on to consider what would be proportionate and what  
those checks would  likely have shown.  But as Quidie hasnt cooperated with this service, 
I havent seen  any information about how it assessed the affordability of these loans. So Im 
unable to say whether  any of Quidies affordability checks were proportionate.
In the absence of any information  from Quidie, Ive considered what  I think it wouldve been 
proportionate for it to check and what I think it wouldve seen. Ive set out my findings  below.
loans 1 and 2
As a starting point,  I think Quidie ought to have at least asked Miss G about her income. I 
dont know what she mightve told it. So Ive relied  on the information from Miss Gs bank  
statements, as I think this provides the best evidence I have of Miss Gs income at the time. 
I can see that for loans  1 and 2 Miss G was earning around £2000. So while I cant be sure 
of what Miss G actually told Quidie about her income (assuming it asked this question),  I 
think its likely shed have declared  an income which was around this amount. Miss G 
needed to repay £367.20  for both loans. This is a significant proportion  of Miss Gs monthly 
income and so I think that Quidie should  have asked about Miss Gs normal  monthly  living 
costs and any regular  financial  commitments to ensure  she could afford to repay these 
Ref: DRN91811542loans. If it had done, I cant be sure what Miss G would  have  said so Ive looked at her bank 
statements to see what these figures were. I can see that Miss Gs normal monthly 
outgoings were  around £1700  and so she couldnt afford  the repayments on loans one and 
two. 
loans 3 and 4
When Miss G applied  for this loan,  it was the third time shed asked for credit in four months. 
I consider this to be an indicator of potential  financial difficulty,  so it would have been 
proportionate for Quidies  checks to go further  than for loans 1 and 2. In addition  to asking 
Miss G about her income  and expenditure I think Quidie shouldve  asked her about any 
other short-term commitments  to check she wasnt reliant on this sort of credit  given Miss 
Gs borrowing pattern.
Again, Ive relied on the information  from Miss Gs bank statements to decide what  I think  
shed have told Quidie,  if it had asked.
Miss Gs financial position  hadnt  improved since taking out the first two loans and once 
short term borrowing commitments are added  to the outgoings figure  Miss G had a negative  
disposable income. So I dont think Quidie wouldve approved these loans if it had carried 
out proportionate checks. 
loans 5 and 6
The pattern  of borrowing shortly after repaying the preceding  loan continued as far as I can 
tell from the bank statements. Bearing  in mind the lending history  up to this point, I think  
Quidie needed  to find out more before giving these loans. At this stage, I think that it 
wouldve been proportionate to continue to find out about the information Ive suggested for 
loan 4. But I also think that Quidie needed to verify  at least some of this information
Ive again considered the information  from Miss Gs bank statements to help me decide  what  
Quidie wouldve found out, had it carried out proportionate checks. In the absence of any 
information from Quidie,  I think  its reasonable to rely on this information.
When considering  the continuing sustainability of the loans, relevant guidance includes 
CONC 6.7.21G, which says, A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit  where  to 
do so is unsustainable  or otherwise harmful. CONC 6.7.21G also refers to paragraph 6.25 
of the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG). This says:
The OFT considers  that [repeatedly refinancing] would include a creditor  allowing a 
borrower to sequentially enter into a number of separate agreements  for short-term loan 
products, one after another, where  the overall effect is to increase the borrower's 
indebtedness in an unsustainable manner. 

The purpose of payday loans is to act as a short-term solution to temporary  cash  flow 
problems experienced by consumers. They are not appropriate for supporting  sustained  
borrowing over longer periods, for which  other products are likely  to be more  suitable.
Having carefully looked  at everything  provided,  I think its clear  that Miss G wasnt in a 
position to be able to make  the payments for loans 5 and 6 in a sustainable way. Miss Gs 
monthly income was not enough  for her to sustain the payments to these loans once her 
other regular  outgoings  are taken into account.
Ref: DRN91811543By this stage, I think proportionate checks wouldve shown  Quidie  that Miss G was taking 
loans from multiple different lenders.  In short, I think that if Quidie had seen evidence of Miss 
Gs outgoings, it wouldve  been able to establish  the above  and it wouldnt  have  lent to Miss 
G in these circumstances. I plan to uphold the complaint about these loans.
what Quidie  should do to put things  right  
Quidie should:
refund  the interest and charges Miss G paid on all the loans
add to the above, interest at 8% simple per year, from when Miss G paid them until 
the date of settlement
remove adverse information about these loans from Miss Gs credit history
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie to take off tax from this interest. Quidie must give 
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and Quidie Limited  should  put things right by taking the steps  set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9181154