K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold in 2003 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France  IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing  
else has changed. 
AXA France  IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility  for this sale.  So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when  Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA.  
Mrs H says AXA mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 10 January 2020, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 10 February 2020.  Mrs Hs representatives have acknowledged 
that they received the provisional decision and said they had no further submissions to make 
at this time.  At the time of writing I have received no further submission from AXA.  I consider 
that AXA has had sufficient time to make a submission had they wanted  to, so I am 
proceeding to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Im minded not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear  Mrs H didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand  why she cant remember  this over 16 years later. I say 
this because Mrs H doesnt  recall taking out the policy, but Ive noted that to get the cover 
Mrs H had to sign her name for the cover, in addition to the signature she made  for the 
credit. Ive noted  that theres  no language  on any documentary evidence that suggests the 
credit is dependent  on taking  out PPI.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information  she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
Ref: DRN95541572The information AXA gave  Mrs H about the PPI probably wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But based on what I know about Mrs Hs circumstances,  I dont think better  
information would have stopped Mrs H from buying  it.
I say that because based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time it seems  
that it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover  so it would have  been useful for her if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs H would have benefitted from the cover.  I say this because Mrs H 
told us that, whilst she couldnt recall what her sick pay arrangements were, she recalled 
having no savings  or any other means she could  have relied on if things went  wrong.  So, I 
think the PPI could have been  useful for her.
So, having  considered everything, I dont think  better information about the PPI would  have 
put Mrs H off taking out the cover.
In reaching these provisional  findings I have noted that the adjudicator  thought it more likely 
that Mrs H was ineligible for the policy at the point of sale. In reaching that view he noted  
that Mrs H told us that she worked less than 16 hours a week at the time of the sale.  AXA 
sent in the questionnaire that Mrs H signed  for them, which predates the one she completed  
for us. In that document Mrs H didnt say she worked less than 16 hours a week.  Mrs H has 
not been able to provide  any evidence to support her later testimony to us on this subject. 
So, having  considered all the submissions  made  to me in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that Mrs H was ineligible for the policy at the time of the sale.
I have considered afresh all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of 
any further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against AXA 
France IARD. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9554157