K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase  agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants  to 
now reject  the car.
background
In November 2017 Miss W entered into a three year hire purchase agreement for a used car 
with MotoNovo. At the point of sale the car was around 10 years old and had a mileage of 
75,000.
Miss W says that nine days after taking the car she experienced problems with the engine as 
it would  cut out when idling. She reported this to the dealership who, she said,  took the car 
back for around two weeks to investigate and fix the problem.
Miss W says the same problem  with the engine arose again a few weeks after the car had 
been returned to her. This time Miss W says the dealership had the car for about four weeks  
to carry out repairs.
Miss W says that shortly  after the car was returned the same problem re-occurred. She says 
this problem was reported to the dealership in February, March and June 2018 but the car 
was not returned to the dealership for further work.
Miss W says she visited the dealership in August, September and October 2018. And that it 
was in October that the dealership recommended another garage to Miss W.  Miss  W said 
she made an appointment with that garage but on the day of the appointment Miss W says 
the dealership  told her it wouldnt pay for any work and wouldnt deal with her further.
In November 2018 the car failed its MOT and Miss W was advised the car needed a new 
engine. Miss W complained to MotoNovo about the condition of the car.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. It said that as shed  had the car for a year she 
would need to provide evidence that the current problems with the car were  either  present or 
developing at the point of sale. MotoNovo said that under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 it 
had to determine if the car was unfit for purpose when it sold to her. MotoNovo said that if 
Miss W obtained  an independent engineers report that showed  the faults with the car had 
been present  at the point  of sale it would look at her complaint  again.
Miss W was unhappy at MotoNovos response  and complained to this service.  Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods supplied must be of satisfactory  condition.  And 
satisfactory condition includes their general  condition, their fitness for purpose,  their 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defect, safety and durability. So consideration is 
given to the price, age and mileage of the car at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator said she had tried to get copies of the job cards to find out what repairs  had 
been carried out on the car but hadnt been able to obtain them.  She said hadnt been able 
to establish what  repairs had been carried out or whether  any of these repairs  had been 
related to the faults that had resulted in the car failing its MOT  in November 2018.
Our adjudicator said shed  seen texts sent by Miss W to the dealership in February, June 
and September  2018 but she wasnt able to determine from the available evidence what  
Ref: DRN96218062issues Miss W was experiencing  with the car, whether they were  diagnosed or whether other 
repairs were carried out.
Miss W had also provided texts from the previous owner that said theyd had problems with 
the car and had returned it. But our adjudicator said there wasnt  enough evidence to say 
whether this was the same problem that Miss W had later complained about.
Our adjudicator said that shed noted that by the time the car had failed its MOT in 
November 2018  Miss W had driven it a further  7,300  miles. Our adjudicator said shed seen 
that Miss W had said she had no option but to drive  the car in the condition  it was due to 
needing to get to work.  
Our adjudicator said there wasnt enough  evidence  that the car had faults that were present 
or developing at the point of sale. She noted that it had passed its MOT  in November 2017 
with no advisories and didnt think it was unreasonable to assume engine problems wouldve 
been picked up when that MOT had been carried out. Our adjudicator also said that due to 
the age and mileage of the car it would be reasonable to expect that some parts would 
become worn with use and repairs required. She thought it was more likely than not that if 
the problems with the engine had been  present or developing  at the point of sale Miss W 
wouldnt have been able to use the car as much  as she had.
Our adjudicator said that if Miss W obtained evidence  of the repairs carried  out on the car 
she would  be happy to review Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W disagreed with our adjudicators  views.  She said that she didnt think  account had 
been taken of the problems faced by the cars  previous  owner which shed provided 
evidence about.
Miss W also said she thought she had provided enough evidence to show  her interactions 
with the dealership and garage. She said she thought  the lack of job cards  was suspicious.
Miss W said the problem with the car had begun  shortly  after shed acquired it and, although 
it was difficult to drive as it cut out when idle, shed managed to do so because  she hadnt 
any choice in the circumstances. She said her use of the car didnt mean  there wasnt a fault 
with it.
Although the car had passed  an MOT  in November 2017 Miss W said this didnt mean  the 
car wasnt developing a fault. Shed  reported a problem to the dealership within nine days of 
acquiring it. She thought it was likely the MOT just hadnt shown the issue with the engine.
Miss W said that the car developing a fault within nine days  from the point of sale meant that 
the car hadnt  been as durable as wouldve been  reasonably expected. There  had also been 
parts fitted in the car in January 2018  and these shouldve lasted beyond  November 2018.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) a car must be of satisfactory quality  at 
the point of sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  
Ref: DRN96218063into account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as, although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever, they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject  the 
car. And where a car is supplied under a finance agreement then its the finance company, 
in this case MotoNovo,  who is responsible for dealing with the fault.
The Act also says that if a fault develops within the first six months then the onus falls on the 
retailer to show that this wasnt developing or present at the point of sale.  However when a 
fault arises after six months  then the onus shifts  to the consumer to show  that it was present 
at the point of sale.
MotoNovo asked Miss W to provide evidence as shed  complained  after shed had the car 
for a year. Miss W says she wouldve complained to MotoNovo earlier  but thought  the car 
belonged to the dealership and so had raised  her complaints directly with them.  She also 
says there  was sufficient  evidence that showed  the car had a fault when shed  acquired  it.
Ive seen that Miss W has provided copies of text messages she had with the previous 
owner. I understand from what Miss W says that the previous  owner  obtained the car in 
October 2016 but returned it to the dealership in December 2016. The previous owner has 
said they had issues with the engine  and that it broke down  after a month when it dropped  
a piston and the whole  engine needed to be replaced.
However, Ive seen that this break  down  happened about a year before Miss W acquired  the 
car and that it had also passed an MOT in November 2017. This would indicate that 
successful repairs must  have been carried  out. I also dont  have any job sheets or repair 
invoices that show what was wrong with the car in or around November/December 2016. 
So, although  I accept  the cars previous owner had a problem with the car, I cant 
reasonably say theres enough evidence for me to find that the issue  with the car hadnt  
been repaired.
Ive seen that Miss W said she took the car back to the dealership  nine days after the point 
of sale and that the dealership had worked  on it for two weeks. Unfortunately  there  are no 
job sheets relating to that and Im unable  to say what work was carried out.
Miss W has provided copies of text messages between herself and the dealership  in 
February 2018. These show that the car was being  repaired  and that new sensors  were  
being fitted. The car was returned  in February  2018  and Ive seen that about two weeks  
later Miss W reported the car had cut out a couple  of times but said she would keep an eye 
on it. The next text was from Miss W about three  weeks later saying the car had started to 
cut out again.  However the dealership didnt reply  until about two weeks later and said it 
was up to Miss W what she wanted to do but that they did say it needs driving a while for it 
to settle the timing and adding  may be its cured!? Just keep me posted!!.
There were no further texts until June 2018 when Miss W said the car was revving and that 
shed taken it to a garage who suggested a valve may need to be changed as it could be 
sucking some oil through  and causing the car to sometimes smoke and rev. The dealership  
said it would  get in touch with the garage.
Ref: DRN96218064The next text is in September 2018  when Miss W reported that her car has gone straight 
back the same way as when I got it from youcompletely cuts out any time Im in low gear. 
The car then failed its MOT in November 2018  due to:
Exhaust hydrocarbon  after second  idle exceeds  default limits.
Exhaust carbon monoxide content  after second  fast idle exceeds  default limits.
Exhaust carbon monoxide content  at idle exceeds default limits.
From the evidence Ive seen the car had repairs carried out in January/ February 2018 that 
involved sensors and that the dealership said the engine control unit (ECU)  may need  to 
be sent off for testing  and repair. But I have no details as to what  was repaired or whether 
the ECU  unit was tested.  
I also dont have any evidence as to what repairs, if any, were carried out in December 
2017.
Miss W says the missing job cards  are suspicious but I cant reasonably say that the lack 
of evidence from the dealership is in itself evidence of the cars  faults.  I dont think  
MotoNovo was unfair asking Miss W for evidence about what was wrong with the car and 
how long these faults had existed.
And although I appreciate Miss W sent texts to the dealership in February,  March  and June 
2018 she didnt  take the car back for further investigations and continued to use it. Miss W 
also says she visited the dealership in August 2018 but again no investigations were  carried 
out, nor was any work carried  out in September  or October 2018 although Miss W says she 
continued to report  ongoing issues.
So from the evidence  Ive seen its confirmed the car was at the dealership for repairs in 
January/February 2018 and that Miss W continued to use the car up until it failed its MOT  in 
November 2018.  But I dont think I have sufficient evidence to say that the repairs carried  
out at the start of 2018  were linked to the reasons for the cars MOT failure  at the end of the 
year. And although Miss W contacted the dealership periodically  throughout 2018 the car 
had no further  repairs or investigations undertaken. So I dont have any evidence,  other than 
what Miss W has said, as to what faults the car may have had or what  was causing them.
The car failed  its MOT  after Miss W had the car for a year and driven  it for over 7,300 miles 
in that time. I appreciate  Miss W has explained  she had no option about that and driving  
wasnt easy but I do think its reasonable for me to take account of this.
Miss W says the fact the car now needs  a new engine is evidence that it wasnt  durable  
and so the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point  of sale. While  Im sorry that Miss W 
has found herself in this position with the car needing an expensive  repair  I also have  to 
look at the fact that the car was 11 years old with a mileage over 82,000 when it failed its 
MOT. I think a reasonable person  would  expect that a car of that age and mileage would  
require repairs due to wear and tear. 
And as explained  above,  as I dont have enough evidence to link the faults  Miss W says she 
experienced with the car to the reason the car failed its MOT, I cant reasonably  say the car 
was either  developing or had a fault at the point  of sale.
Ref: DRN96218065So although  I appreciate my decision  will be of disappointment to Miss W I dont think there  
is enough evidence  to say the car wasnt of satisfactory condition  at the point of sale. Im not 
upholding Miss Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9621806