K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  that she wasnt provided with options to continue  her endowment policy  
with ReAssure Limited when it matured in 2018.
background
Mrs Ts complaint originally had two elements; the issue explained above about the maturity 
options, but also a more  significant concern that ReAssure had failed to convert the policy  to 
a whole of life policy in 2001. 
ReAssure felt that the latter issue had been complained about too late, so it didnt consent to 
us looking into it. I issued  a decision in which I explained that I agreed it had been 
complained about too late. So, to confirm, this final decision  concerns solely  the issue  of 
ReAssure failing to properly tell Mrs T of her options when the endowment policy matured.  
ReAssure accepted that it had failed to inform Mrs T correctly  that she had an option to 
continue the policy for another  10 years  once it matured. It offered her £200  compensation 
and the opportunity to take up the option belatedly,  providing she brought  the premiums  up 
to date. 
Our investigator felt that this was a fair offer in the circumstances. But as Mrs T didnt agree, 
Ive reviewed the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. 
It was clearly unfortunate that ReAssure didnt  make it clearer  to Mrs T that she could 
continue with the policy for another 10 years. I note that it was mentioned  in the initial pre-
maturity letter of April 2018.  But it should  have been  reiterated to Mrs T when she later 
queried matters. 
However, I agree that its offer to put things right is a fair one and broadly in line with what I 
would have suggested, if ReAssure had not already made the offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, as I consider 
ReAssure Limiteds offer to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9714620