K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  him a packaged 
bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
Mr P paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received several  potential  benefits in return. 
He thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to him. 
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Ps case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr P and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
Mr P has been a customer of Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland has 
sent us information from its records which it says shows  that:
Mr P opened a fee-free  account  in 2000
in 2012, he switched to the URCA,  for which he paid a monthly fee
in 2019, he switched back to a fee-free account.
I think that Bank of Scotlands records are probably  reliable about  this, and Mr P seems to 
have accepted that this account history  is accurate,  so I have taken  it to be correct.  
During our investigation into this complaint,  Bank of Scotland  and Mr P have disagreed  
strongly about how Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr P. Bank of Scotland has told us 
that it did so over the internet through its online banking  service, and Mr P has said that it did 
so during a phone call when he rang to ask about  an overdraft. 
Mr P has been very consistent about  this, hes said that he definitely didnt take the URCA 
online and that he never used Bank of Scotlands internet banking  service. 
With a disagreement  of this strength, I cant be totally sure what happened;  but Bank  of 
Scotland has sent us copies of some  of its records which seem to show  that Mr P registered 
for its online banking  service before 2012  and that he did buy the URCA online. We sent  
copies of Bank of Scotlands records to Mr P and he replied  that although (we) have sent 
(him) some information about  the account  being opened online..there is no proof that it 
was (him) that opened the account  online . I accept that Bank of Scotlands records  are not 
total proof,  but I havent seen anything  to make me think they are fake or that someone else 
bought the URCA  in Mr Ps name. 
Ref: DRN91778252I appreciate that Mr P has done his best to remember what  happened  in 2012. He has 
mentioned several  phone calls with Bank  of Scotland about the URCA and his options for an 
overdraft, and I accept  that he may well have had such discussions;  but looking at the 
evidence available  to me, I think its most likely that he bought the URCA online. I have 
assessed his complaint  on this basis. 
When Bank of Scotland sold packaged  bank  accounts over the internet, it had to give 
customers clear  and fair information about  the accounts, including their potential  benefits 
and the cost. 
In 2012, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, car breakdown cover,  
home emergency insurance and mobile phone  insurance. Depending on the way customers 
used the account, it could  also provide cheaper  overdrafts than Bank of Scotland  gave to 
customers with fee-free  accounts. 
Although I cant tell exactly what Mr P saw when he looked online,  and I accept that Bank of 
Scotland may not have  got everything right for him, I think  its sales screens would have  told 
him about the URCAs fees and about the main  potential  benefits of the account. After all, it 
was trying to sell the URCA to its customers and it was in its own best interests  to let them 
know what they could  get in return for the monthly fee; and the fees themselves would appear 
on customers bank statements, so I dont  think Bank of Scotland  would have tried to hide 
them. I think that Bank of Scotland  probably  gave Mr P sufficient information to decide if he 
wanted to buy the URCA and then allowed him a choice to buy it or keep the fee-free account.
Mr P has also told us that Bank of Scotland told him that it was upgrading  all accounts and 
that if he wanted to keep  an overdraft  he had to upgrade. He has mentioned that Bank of 
Scotland trapped and blackmailed him into buying the URCA and then keeping it. I find 
this unlikely. As I mentioned earlier, even though I think that Mr P bought the URCA online,  I 
accept that Bank of Scotland may have  discussed  his overdraft with him over the phone  at 
various times, but this isnt the same as blackmailing him or trapping  him. 
Mr P has also said that in 2012  he already  had a packaged bank account  from another bank 
which provided similar benefits to the URCA and that he now believes he could have found 
some of the URCAs benefits  at a cheaper  price elsewhere. This may be the case, but these 
were things for Mr P to consider for himself  when buying the account online.  I dont  think 
they mean that Bank  of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA to him. 
Mr P has also pointed  out that at times  Bank  of Scotland charged him a usage fee for his 
overdraft. I fully accept that it may have done this, but again  this doesnt mean that it mis-
sold the account to him. As I mentioned  earlier, one of the URCAs potential  benefits was 
that it could provide cheaper overdrafts than Bank  of Scotland  gave to customers  with fee-
free accounts; however this depended  on how customers used the account and their 
overdraft facility. In some  circumstances, Bank of Scotland could still raise  usage charges of 
the type Mr P has described. I havent  seen  anything  to make me think  that Bank  of Scotland 
misled Mr P about this when it sold the account to him. 
Ref: DRN91778253Mr P has also complained that in 2018, he was told that he would have to pay extra for travel 
insurance. He hasnt told us a great  deal about  this; and I dont know  if he spoke to the 
insurer or to Bank of Scotland.  Similarly, I dont know if the extra  was an excess charge for 
a claim,  or an additional premium for a medical  condition or something else.  As I have so 
little information  on this, I havent considered it as part of this decision. So Mr P is free to 
raise it further with the insurer,  or with Bank of Scotland, if he so wishes.  But I cant give him 
any advice or suggest how Bank of Scotland or the insurer  should  respond. 
So in summary,  I think that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr P online and gave him a 
fair choice  about  buying it or keeping  his fee-free account. I dont think it blackmailed or 
trapped him, or told him he had to change  accounts.
I dont think that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA  to Mr P. 
 my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9177825