K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Ulster Bank  Ltd closed her savings account early  which  resulted in lost 
interest. She also complains it failed  to respond to letters she sent.
background
Miss J wrote  to Ulster Bank asking in early March 2018 asking it to close  her savings 
account on 26 March  because the interest  rate was going down. Instead, Ulster Bank closed 
the account on 15 March. This meant  Miss J lost out on several  days interest and because  
she was away, the money  wasnt reinvested  straight  away.  So Miss J complained. Ulster 
Bank accepted it had closed the account early and offered  to reimburse  Miss J with any lost 
interest and to pay her £30 for the inconvenience its mistake had caused her. Miss J didnt 
feel this was enough. When Miss J complained about Ulster Bank failing to respond  to her 
letters about  the issue, it said it hadnt received three of the letters  shed sent. So Miss J 
came to this service. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld  so Miss J 
asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ulster Banks accepted  it made a mistake  
closing the account early, so I need to consider  whether  its done  enough  to put things  right. 
Its refunded the interest Miss J wouldve got on the account if it had been closed on the 
correct date so I dont think shes lost out financially. In the circumstances, I think £30 for the 
inconvenience caused by having to follow up on the mistake is fair and reasonable so I dont 
think Ulster Bank needs to do anything else.
I appreciate that Miss J feels very strongly  about the lack of response to her letters. But 
Ulster Banks provided evidence that the letters werent logged  in its system. So on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its likely the bank  didnt  receive  them so I dont think  its done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Miss J to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9941625