K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the price he agreed to pay for a car, via a hire purchase agreement  with 
a finance company whose liabilities  were  later taken over Go Car Credit Limited trading as 
GCC Servicing (GCC), was fraudulently inflated  so that he was charged  more for the car 
under the agreement.
Ref: DRN95732512background
In January 2015, Mr B visited a dealership and agreed to purchase  a used car via a three -
year hire purchase agreement that was arranged with GCC. 
Mr B says that he agreed to pay £5,000 for the car and that he didnt pay any deposit  
towards it. He signed the credit agreement and provided copies of his driving  licence and 
passport. Mr B says he didnt see the sales price for the car on the agreement  as that was 
on a different page.
Mr B says it wasnt  until recently that he was aware the sales price  for the car was recorded  
as £6,695. He had requested copies of the sales documentation and was then provided with 
a copy of the sales invoice. Mr B says the signature  on the sales  invoice isnt his and that the 
date shown was a different date from the hire purchase agreement and that he wasnt  in the 
area at that time. 
Mr B complained to GCC who didnt  uphold his complaint. GCC looked at the signatures  on 
copies of his driving  licence  and passport, which he had provided at the time of taking out 
the finance, and said they matched the signature on the hire purchase agreement. And the 
cost of the car was clearly  shown on that signed hire purchase agreement. GCC said that if 
Mr B believed a fraud had been  committed then he should report  the matter to the police.
Mr B disagreed with the view taken by GCC. He complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Our adjudicator said that he had looked  at the hire purchase agreement, the vehicle invoice 
and application  documents, insurance  documentation and the statement of account. He had 
also read through the notes of contact and emails sent between  Mr B and GCC. Our 
adjudicator said the finance documentation  all stated  that the price of the car had been  
£6,695 and not £5,000.
Our adjudicator said that the sales invoice  that Mr B had been provided with wasnt  the same 
as the invoice that had been sent to this service  in GCCs case  file. The sales invoice in the 
case file contained  more details, including a stamp  from GCC saying paid, and the date the 
document had been prepared was the same as the date on the hire purchase agreement. 
However, this document had no signatures. Our adjudicator said the sales  invoice provided 
by Mr B was signed but the signature  didnt look like Mr Bs when referring to other 
documents.
Our adjudicator said he noted that the insurance documents provided by Mr B to the 
dealership in January 2015,  as proof  that the car had been properly insured by him showed 
the insurance value  of the car as £6,995.
Our adjudicator said the statement of account  sent to Mr B also showed that the amount 
paid for the car was £6,695 and the payments all matched the figures  shown on the hire 
purchase agreement.
Our adjudicator said, having looked at all the paperwork, he couldnt agree that the amount  
of the finance  was incorrect.  And, although  there  may be questions  about the signature on 
the sales invoice  sent to Mr B, this would be a matter  for a law enforcement agency to deal 
with should he choose to report  it.
Ref: DRN95732513Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said he had been  accompanied by a friend to 
the dealership  who would be able to confirm the agreed price for the car. Mr B said the 
original finance  company  should have known the signature on the sales  invoice was 
fraudulent and acted.  He said he couldnt have signed this sales  invoice as he hadnt been in 
the area on the date shown.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that in January 2015,  Mr B attended  a dealership and agreed to buy a used  car. Mr 
B says that, due to its condition, he negotiated a lower sales  price and it was agreed  he 
would purchase  the car for £5,000.  
Mr B hasnt been able to provide a statement from his friend, but I think  that after the amount 
of time that has now passed, it might be difficult for a friend to be able to accurately 
remember what had been said five years ago. I havent drawn  any inferences from not 
receiving it and have  weighed up documents I have been sent that were prepared at the time 
of the cars sale.
Ive seen that the original hire purchase agreement was arranged with a finance company 
that has since been taken over by GCC, and that the dealership itself is no longer  in 
existence. The issue for me is whether  its fair that GCC  is seeking to recover the 
outstanding balance of the cost of the car as it is shown  on the hire purchase agreement. Im 
aware GC C wasnt the original lender, but it is responsible for dealing  with Mr Bs complaint. 
Ive also seen that GCC has been  able to provide all the contact  notes relating to Mr B dating 
back to 2015.
Ive seen a copy  of the hire purchase agreement  completed at the time of the sale of the car. 
Mr B agrees  that this document contains  his signature, as does the direct debit mandate,  the 
agreement to install a payment  reminder  system and the income and expenditure form, all of 
which were signed  on the same  date.
The hire purchase agreement clearly sets out the cost of the car as £6,695  and, that over the 
next 36 months of the contract, there would be a monthly payment of around £320. Above 
the signature box for the hire purchase agreement there is a section headed Customer 
Declaration  which says that the customer has read, understood and agreed to be bound  by 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.  So, I think its reasonable to expect Mr B to have 
read the agreement  before signing it which included the finance details for the car. 
Ive also seen that a copy  of the hire purchase agreement was sent to Mr B two days  after 
he had signed  it.
I think its reasonable to say that Mr B was aware of the monthly costs for the car and the 
length of the agreement as he made  the payments, although Ive seen there is a history  of 
missed and late payments  on his account. However,  this situation arose due to a change in 
Mr Bs circumstances rather than because he was unclear  about  the payments  he needed to 
make under the agreement.
Ref: DRN95732514Ive seen that there appears to be two sales invoices,  one that Mr B says he was sent and 
the other which is in GCCs  case file. I accept the signature on the one in Mr Bs possession  
doesnt look like his and is dated  two days after the hire purchase agreement  was signed. 
The other sales invoice  is unsigned but contains  more information and is stamped Paid  to 
show the finance company passed the funds to the dealership. I dont know why there are 
two documents,  but I dont think I can reasonably say that this is enough to think that a fraud 
has been committed and that the cars  price  has been inflated.
Ive also seen that Mr B had the car insured for a value  of £6,995 when he first acquired it, 
which I think I can reasonably take as an indication of the value of the car at that time.
So, looking  at the paperwork, I dont think I can reasonably  say that the agreed  sales price 
for the car was £5,000, and that this was later altered without Mr Bs knowledge  to the higher  
figure of £6,695. On the evidence Ive seen I think its more likely than not that Mr B was 
aware of the cost of the car and agreed  to that price. And, although  I accept the two sales  
invoices are different,  I dont think its unfair  for GCC to be collecting the higher figure based 
on all the evidence. I dont  think there  is enough  evidence to reasonably say Mr B is paying  
the wrong amount for the car.
Mr B has also raised other issues  with the car and his account  during this complaint. Ive 
seen from the contact notes provided  by GCC that Mr B has complained about the condition 
of the car in 2015, and he raised it again  in December  2018, but that it wasnt investigated by 
GCC as it seems that more information was going  to be sent on by Mr B. GCC doesnt 
appear to have investigated  any complaint about the quality of the car in 2018/19. Its only 
investigation was into the complaint about the cars sales price.
Mr B also raised the way GCC has treated him over his account. Ive seen that Mr B has had 
a difficult time over the last few years  and has missed payments. However, from the contact 
notes, Ive seen  that both Mr B and GCC have kept in touch and tried to work out 
arrangements to keep  the agreement on track. It again seems that GCC hasnt investigated 
a particular complaint  from Mr B about  its management of his account. 
In the circumstances I dont think I can look at these  additional areas of complaint.  If Mr B 
wants to pursue these  then he will need  to make separate  complaints  to GCC to allow it to 
investigate first. If he is unhappy at the responses, then Mr B can raise  those  matters  with 
this service. However, Ive seen  that there remains an outstanding balance  on the account 
that requires clearing and I would expect  GCC to treat Mr B sympathetically when dealing 
with these arrears.
So, for the reasons given above  Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020.
Ref: DRN95732515Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9573251