K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly increased his motor 
insurance premium when offering to renew  it.
background
Mr W has a policy with Tesco. It offered to renew  it but the premium had increased  
significantly. Mr W said that he could  get another policy from Tesco  online much  cheaper. 
And, he wasn't happy with Tescos response to his concerns so he brought his complaint to 
us. 
Our adjudicator didn't think  Tesco had done anything  wrong. Mr W didn't  agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it 
for reasons similar to the given by our adjudicator.  
Given the rise in the premium Tesco quoted at renewal and the fact that Mr W could find 
another policy online cheaper, I can understand why he wasn't happy with the renewal 
quote. But that doesn't mean Tesco treated  him unfairly.
It might help if I explain that were not the insurance regulator. And its not my role to tell an 
insurer what price it should charge for the risks it covers, nor do I decide what  factors  it 
should take into account when assessing those risks. Thats  for it to decide as part of its 
wider commercial requirements and its desire  to be competitive  and retain a customers  
business. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly, insurers  are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need  to in order to cover a risk.
When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an assessment of 
how likely it is that their customers will make a claim and how much they might  have to pay 
out for those. Theyll  also factor  in admin  costs  and a profit  requirement.  And each insurer 
will go about  that in its own way. So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer  
fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same  as it would  other consumers with similar 
circumstances.
Tesco has provided  us with some details of its considerations  of Mr Ws renewal premium. 
Those details are commercially  sensitive,  so I can't share them with him. But, as our 
adjudicator previously told him, insurers won't  usually set out how theyve worked out a 
premium to their customers. Thats because  that information could give a commercial 
advantage to their competitors. So we don't expect insurers to make  that information publicly 
available. 
Ive looked at the information Tescos given  us and Im satisfied it hasn't singled Mr W out. 
Also, Im aware that before offering to renew Mr Ws policy, Tesco  introduced a new method 
of calculating risk and for some of its customers that resulted in higher premiums. And I think 
its calculated Mr Ws renewal quote the same as it would for other customers with similar 
circumstances. So I think it calculated Mr Ws renewal premium  fairly.
Ref: DRN98073122Mr W also doesn't think its fair that he could find a cheaper Tesco policy  online,  especially 
as it told him the renewal  premium it had offered him was its best  price. I can see his point. 
From where Mr Ws standing it can't be the case that Tesco  had offered him its best price, 
if it can then offer him a much cheaper premium if he buys a policy  via a comparison 
website. So I can see why he wasn't happy  with Tesco's response  to his concerns.
But it might help if I add some context. Its not unusual for insurers to offer a number of 
different products with varying levels  of cover. And each of those  products  will be priced 
differently. Its also common practice for insurers to offer new  business quotes which have 
been reduced by introductory discounts  aimed at attracting new customers. And typically  
insurers will consider any business routed  to them through price comparison sites to be new  
business, regardless  of whether or not the customer has an existing policy.  So the online  
quote will usually benefit from a new business discount whereas a premium offered at 
renewal won't have that benefit. 
So I understand that when Tesco referred  to offering  Mr W its best price, it was doing  so in 
terms of the best price  it would offer to renew  the existing policy.  Thats  as opposed to the 
best price it could offer for any of its policies and the medium through which they were  
bought. So the information Tesco gave Mr W was correct,  even  though, as Ive said above  I 
can see why Mr W wouldn't have found  its explanation helpful.  
Mr W was also unhappy with Tescos  other  explanations  for the increase in his renewal 
premium. For example, it told him that online quotes could vary for other reasons including  
changes to underwriter,  excesses  and cover selected. But, as far as Im aware those factors 
didn't apply to Mr Ws situation. So it appears  Tesco provided a general response to his 
complaint telling him about the sort of things that can affect a premium rather than tailoring 
its response to his individual circumstances.  
But as Ive said above, insurers won't  usually  explain how theyve calculated a premium  to 
their customers. And they won't often say exactly where or how theyve changed their risk 
ratings or pricing policy.  Thats  standard industry practice. And we don't expect insurers to 
share that information  with consumers. So while Tescos response  could have  been  better, I 
don't think  it was unfair. Thats  especially  the case as Tesco  told Mr W that he might  be able 
to get a cheaper price online.  It added  that if he did it would try to match that price. And, as 
Mr W knows, he was under  no obligation to renew with Tesco. It follows that I don't think 
hes been disadvantaged by Tescos  response  to his concerns. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9807312