K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a conditional sale agreement financed  
by Moneybarn No.1 Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants it to pay for the 
necessary repairs. 
background
Mr G tells us he acquired the vehicle  through a dealer Ill refer to as K in early April 2018.  
He says he reported a problem with the brakes  in May and this was dealt with by K. But later 
he started to experience  gearbox problems and the gears wouldnt engage.  He said he took 
it for a gearbox service in August - but soon afterwards the same problem occurred. Mr G 
says Moneybarn refused  to assist and so he ended up having  to have the vehicle  repaired 
himself - at a cost of £2,220. 
Moneybarn told us the agreement with Mr G had started on 5 April 2018. It said the vehicle  
had been nine years  old and had covered  just less than 39,000 miles when acquired by 
Mr G. It said Mr G had complained about  a problem  with the brakes - which had been 
repaired by K. And hed also told it the automatic gearbox was faulty  and would need 
replacing with a reconditioned item at a cost of between £1,500 - £2,000.
Moneybarn said it had instructed a firm of independent vehicle examiners, A, to inspect the 
vehicle. And A had reported the vehicle was faulty  as it failed to change  up the gears. But it 
said A had concluded that the fault was not present  or developing at the time of supply.  In 
those circumstances  Moneybarn did not consider it was liable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She thought  the vehicle had 
probably not been of satisfactory  quality  when supplied. She didnt think the report  by A was 
definitive. She didnt  consider a reasonable person would expect to be able to drive  a vehicle 
for so few miles (around 2,700 since supply)  before a significant failure of a vital part. Or to 
expect repair  bills of nearly  half the original cost within such  a short  time. She thought 
Moneybarn should  refund the cost of the repairs Mr G had arranged after it had refused to 
assist. And that Mr G should  also have monthly payments refunded  for when he was unable  
to use the vehicle and £150  compensation for the inconvenience.
Moneybarn didnt agree  and re-emphasised its reliance on the findings of A. But it said it 
would offer £500 towards the repair costs as a gesture of goodwill. As its not been possible 
to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr G has experienced  the problems hes encountered with this vehicle. Whilst 
it was by no means new when acquired  - at nine years old - the recorded mileage of just 
under 39,000 was well below average. So it was reasonable  to expect the vehicle had a 
considerable lifespan left - a fact supported  by the agreement being  for three  years.
Ref: DRN90836342In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. And where  evidence is unclear, or contradictory - as some of it is 
here - I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act of 2015 (CRA). And as the supplier  of the vehicle  and 
finance, Moneybarn  is responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Broadly summarised, the CRA says that if a fault with an item arises within the first six 
months following  supply  its presumed to be present at the point of supply - unless its 
established otherwise. And this would potentially give a consumer certain rights to either 
reject the item or have  it repaired.
Its not disputed  that Mr G had reported  faults  with the vehicle in May 2018 (brakes)  - which 
seem to have been repaired to his satisfaction. But a new issue  with the gearbox arose in 
September - the invoice of the service is dated  10 September 2018 - not August as Mr G 
believed. But as thats within six months  of supply it doesnt alter the basic  situation.
The vehicle was examined by A on 14 November 2018. And it confirmed the fault described 
by Mr G was present - the gears failed to change up. Id describe  the conclusion  reached by 
A as non-committal  - indeed it seems  to seek to have a foot in both camps. It said the 
vehicle would require  further inspection under workshop conditions. But it went on to say that 
given the mileage and time since supply it didnt think  the fault would have been developing 
at the time of supply. But that if the hirer (Mr G) could provide documentary evidence  to 
show the issue had been ongoing  since supply that would, on a balance of probabilities, 
suggest it had been developing at that point. 
As report suggests theres  a duty upon Mr G to supply evidence that the issue  has been 
ongoing since supply.  But I dont agree with that interpretation. Mr G reported gearbox  faults  
in August 2018 - and A confirmed those faults were present.  Given  the legislative 
presumption that those faults were  present at the point of supply  - unless its established 
otherwise (As report does not do this) - I think its probable the vehicle  was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Nor do I agree with Moneybarns characterisation  of this gearbox issue as a wear  and tear 
item. I accept the lifespan can vary dependent  upon  mileage, maintenance and manner of 
driving. But the same can be said of almost every component  part of any vehicle. It cant 
fairly be said that a reasonable  person would routinely  expect have to replace a gearbox on 
a typical vehicle after little more than 41,000 miles.
Whilst Mr G arranged and paid for repairs to be undertaken  - Moneybarn  refers to these as 
unauthorised - it seems to me he was left with little choice. Moneybarn had issued a final 
response letter on 21 November 2018 which had not upheld  Mr Gs complaint. It said the 
liability for the repairs fell upon him. 
So Mr G was faced with the equally unappealing  options of being without transport for 
several months whilst  his complaint was investigated or having  repairs done at his own 
expense. He chose the latter  and I think it was reasonable for him to do so.
Ref: DRN90836343Indeed, with the benefit of hindsight, it can be seen  that in making  that choice he 
substantially mitigated any loss Moneybarn might  face as the result of my decision.  In the 
light of my findings - and if the repairs had not been done - Id have ordered the return  of all 
monthly deposits from September until such time as they had been completed. Given  the 
date of this decision, that would probably have been an additional six monthly payments. At 
the relevant monthly rate this equates to just under £900.
Im aware its possible that Moneybarn  could have had the repairs  done at a lesser cost - but 
it had the opportunity and decided not to do so. So given my previous comments  about  the 
effect of Mr Gs choice I think its fair and reasonable he should have the cost of these 
repairs refunded  in full. I note he used the same  company for these repairs  as K had 
engaged for the gearbox service. So I think its probable the price was reasonable.
I also think he should be refunded payments for those periods when the vehicle was not able 
to be used and £150 for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im ordering  Moneybarn No 1. Limited  to:
1.Pay the cost of repairs - £2,220.
2.Refund £99 - being the contribution to the transmissions  service paid by Mr G.
3.Refund monthly payments from 10 September 2018 to 10 December 2018 (pro rata 
for any period  of less than one month).
4.Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8 % per year should  be added  to items 1, 2, and 3 above from 
date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9083634