K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit
card in October 2006. Miss B says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Miss B, Capital One had to make it clear the policy was optional. It 
also had to get Miss Bs agreement to take it out. 
Miss B applied for her credit card over the internet and then completed  her application 
through the post following this. Ive seen a copy of her application, and I can see that Miss B 
has ticked to select the policy  next to the wording I wish to purchase  Optional Capital One 
Payment Protection  Insurance.  And shes signed underneath this to confirm  her choice. This 
is separate to her signature for the credit  card. So I think Capital One made it clear that Miss 
B didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although given how long 
ago this took place I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss B got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it could have been useful 
for her if something went wrong.
Miss B has told us shed  get 6 months full pay, followed by 6 months half pay from her 
employer if she was off work sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Miss 
B couldnt work due to illness and this wouldve been paid alongside her employer benefits. 
So I still think she would have valued  the extra security the policy gave  her if things went 
wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for Miss B. And as the policys premiums were paid 
monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.  So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said, including her comments  about having life 
cover. This policy would only pay out if Miss B passed away,  and provided a different type of 
protection. So this hasnt  changed my mind  about  not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN90581452my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9058145