K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by Brewin Dolphin Limited to transfer his pension  
scheme from Provider 1 to a self-invested  personal pension plan with Provider  2. Mr O says 
the advice he received  from Brewin  Dolphin was not suitable for his needs.
background
In July 2016, Brewin Dolphin prepared a Financial  Action Plan (FAP)  for Mr O. Mr Os 
pension fund was with Provider 1. But, Mr O had been a client  of Brewin  Dolphins for seven 
years. Brewin Dolphin  had been  managing his pension and investment portfolios on a 
discretionary basis. 
The FAP recorded that as a priority Mr O wanted  to review his pension arrangements,  
particularly with regard  to cost and suitability.  It was also noted that he was not happy with 
the service hed been getting from Provider 1 and wanted to consider moving his pension  
away from it. The records said that Mr Os pension constituted  35% of his overall wealth and 
included a commercial  property, which he was running a business from.
Provider 1s pension arrangement offered groups  of individuals the opportunity  to have their 
investments pooled together with each  member having a share of the fund. Mr O was the 
only member in his fund at the time,  so he wasnt making use of the pooled arrangement.  
Brewin Dolphin told Mr O that Provider 1 was selling its investment to another business. It 
said that this other business ran a closed  book, which meant  his existing scheme  would 
probably close to new business and it he probably  wouldnt be able to add any new 
members to his fund.
At the time of advice,  Mr Os pension fund was valued at:
Brewin Dolphin Portfolio £1,203,383
Cash Account £990
Property £660,000
Total £1,864,373
At the time,  Mr O was in his mid fifties, divorced, with two dependent  children. He said he 
was looking to retire  at age 60. Brewin Dolphin recorded his attitude  to risk (ATR)  as being 6 
out of 10, with 10 being the highest attitude to risk. Mr O had enhanced protection in place, 
this meant  he couldnt make any contributions  into his fund without losing tax protection.
Brewin Dolphin conducted a review of Mr Os pension arrangements. It said his options 
were:
Make no changes to your existing arrangement
Retain the scheme  but invest via [a different Provider 1 platform] and appoint  a
            financial adviser to provide ongoing  advice
Transfer your pension  funds to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
Provider 1 and have  the monies  managed by your Investment Manager
Transfer to a SIPP with an alternative provider and have the monies managed by
       your Investment Manager
Brewin Dolphin recommended the fourth of these options because, it said:
Ref: DRN91021852As the bulk of [Mr Os] pension monies  are invested already under our discretionary
management service  I recommend an 'in-specie  transfer across to [Provider 2]. An in-specie
transfer allows the transfer of [Mr Os] assets  across without having to sell them and be out 
of the market during the transfer process.
Brewin Dolphin told Mr O in the FAP that: 
Provider 1 do not apply a charge on transfer  to another pension arrangement but there may 
be a cost involved such as valuation of the property.
It also said:
There are no charges from the [fund] on transfer  however  there may be cost involved 
depending on the investment held.
The total annual  charge  payable to Provider  1, at the time of transfer, was 1.14% of the 
portfolio value, which equalled  £21,179 in Mr Os case.
The total annual  charge  for the SIPP with Provider  2 was said to be 1.08%  of the
portfolio value, which was £20,111.  The total set up fee for the SIPP policy with Provider 2 
was £6,116. Brewin Dolphin had agreed  that Mr O could pay a flat fee of £5,000 for the 
advice, instead  of paying the usual 2% of fund rate.
Brewin Dolphin told Mr O that after factoring in the initial set up charges, when spread over 
the next five years (to coincide  with his intended retirement age) the overall charge worked 
out at  1.41% per annum. This was higher than his current plan charges. Brewin Dolphin  
said it believed its recommendation was suitable  because Mr O was not happy with the 
service received from Provider 1 and a SIPP was a more suitable  pension arrangement in 
his circumstances.
Mr O went ahead with the transfer.  He later raised concerns with Brewin Dolphin, including 
about unexpected additional charges,  time delays and the insurance of the property held 
within his pension fund.  Brewin  Dolphin  offered Mr O £300  in full and final settlement, which  
he appeared to accept  at the time.
Mr O later complained to our service about the overall suitability of the advice hed been 
given by Brewin Dolphin. One of our adjudicators investigated his complaint and was of the 
opinion that the advice  was suitable  and that his complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Partly, this 
was because Mr O was the only member of his Provider 1 fund, (and so a SIPP better suited 
his needs), and also because  Mr O had expressed concerns about the service provided  by 
Provider 1 so appeared to want to move. But, also because Provider  2s SIPP  appeared to 
have lower ongoing costs and other alternatives had been explored.  
After asking the business for some additional  information, our adjudicator issued a second 
view in October 2018. In this view he also responded to some additional points raised  by 
Mr O. The adjudicators conclusion was still the same, that the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. 
Mr O did not agree with the adjudicators findings and said in summary:
The cost of transferring the property amounted to about £8000  in valuation fees and 
solicitors costs. This was a material amount and wasnt  disclosed. It had increased 
Ref: DRN91021853the set-up fee from £6116  to over £14,000. Mr O said if hed known that, then he 
wouldnt have proceeded with the recommendation.
He said applying the valuation and solicitors  costs in the same  way as the business 
had included  the set up costs (over  five years), increased the annual  charge to 
1.84%. 
The initial  illustration costs from Provider 1 included an annual  investment fee of 
£3797. Included in this, was a fee for property management services provided  by 
another business. Ill refer to this business as Business 2. No allowance was made 
for a property management fee in the FAP recommendation. Mr O said if he had 
retained a property manager, the cost wouldve been considerably more than 
Provider 1s arrangement.
The property was left uninsured because  there  was no property manager in place. If 
the costs of employing a property manager were added  back  in, it would likely 
increase the overall  annual charges to over 2%. Over  five years he estimates  it 
would be £94,000 more expensive, than leaving it with Provider 1. He says if hed 
known this, he wouldve put up with the poor service, rather  than spend this much  
extra. 
The illustration wasnt clear or fair and Mr O considered it misleading. He said the 
adviser hadnt compared like with like.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by our adjudicator. I do not uphold  Mr Os complaint.
Ive seen the spreadsheet that Mr O was sent by Brewin  Dolphin comparing the costs  of the 
different options,  including setting  up a SIPP with other providers and staying with 
Provider 1. I think Brewin Dolphin did make it clear in the FAP that there may be some 
additional costs  if Mr O transferred, depending  on the type of investment  held.  It referred in 
particular to property  valuation costs. So, I think he was given the heads  up about  these  
potential additional  costs. He wasnt told that it would  cost in the region of £8,000,  but I dont 
think that Brewin Dolphin  couldve reasonably known that at the time. For example, it didnt 
become clear until afterwards that an earlier valuation report couldnt be used and a new 
report would  have to be obtained.
I think Brewin Dolphin fairly  included  the £6116 set up costs it knew  about, when it 
calculated the total annual  charge spread over a five year period. In my view, Brewin Dolphin 
reasonably selected a five year period as Mr O was planning to retire in five years time. I 
cant see that Brewin Dolphin misled  Mr O into believing that these set up costs would be 
spread out over five years and deducted  annually. I think  it was clear that they would  be 
deducted up front. As Ive already said, I dont think Brewin Dolphin couldve reasonably 
known what the costs associated with the valuation and transfer of the property would be.  
So, I dont think it misled  Mr O by not including these in the set up costs.  It had clearly  
communicated that there  may be other set up costs, depending  on the investments held.
Mr O told Brewin  Dolphin  by email on 17 July 2016 that he didnt know whether he had a 
property manager  and asked if this mattered.  His adviser replied and said that Provider 1 or 
Ref: DRN91021854Business 2 may be able to help him with this. Mr O completed and signed the SIPP  
questionnaire on 19 July 2016. The questionnaire  said, under the heading Property  
Manager: 
 You must appoint a property manager  who will be responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the property. This may be you, as the SIPP client. In some circumstances, 
we may require the trustees to appoint a recognised property manager company to collect 
the rent on the trustees behalf and to ensure  that the terms of the lease 
 to. We will let you know if this is the case.
So, I think it was made  clear to Mr O that subject to what he decided  (and whether the 
trustee required him to appoint a recognised property  manager) he was responsible  for 
appointing the property  manager.  I cant see that he was misled into believing in anyway 
that the property  managers  costs were  included in the annual charge or SIPP set up costs. 
Mr O raised the issue regarding the insurance of the property with Brewin  Dolphin prior to 
bringing his complaint to this service. He accepted  a compensation payment from Brewin 
Dolphin, so I dont  think it fair or appropriate to comment further on this here.
Looked at overall, I cant see that Brewin  Dolphins  recommendation was an unsuitable  one 
in Mr Os circumstances. He was keen to move  away  from Provider  1 and the 
recommendation to take out a SIPP seemed  appropriate given  his investment objectives, 
fund size and general circumstances. Brewin Dolphin made it clear that overall  it would be 
more costly to set up the new SIPP,  rather than maintain his current  arrangement with 
Provider 1. It told him that he would have to meet the valuation  costs of the property transfer 
and it that he was responsible for appointing a property manager. I dont think Brewin  
Dolphin couldve known the full extent of the property valuation and transfer costs to include 
these. And from what Mr Os said, it seems the trustees didnt require him to appoint  a 
recognised property manager, so if he wanted to he could keep costs down by appointing 
himself as the property  manager.
So, I cant see that Mr O has lost out financially because of anything  that Brewin Dolphin did 
wrong here.  Nor, can I see that the recommendation it made was unsuitable in Mr Os 
circumstances.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9102185