K820x#14Complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK plc wont refund three  cash  machine withdrawals 
that she says she neither  made nor authorised.  
Background
End of December 2017 and beginning of January 2018 Miss N was visiting  a friend in 
Sweden. On 27 December Barclays  records indicate that a cash machine withdrawal was 
made using  Miss Ns card and PIN. Two further  cash machine withdrawals were  made  on 2 
January. Miss N said she did not make any of those withdrawals, although she had made 
other payments and withdrawals using her card before the first disputed withdrawal and after 
the later disputed withdrawals, as well as between them. She says she reported the disputed 
withdrawals as soon  as she found  out about  them, on 2 January. 
Miss N suggested her card must  have been  copied, or cloned; she also expressed concern 
that Barclays security systems  must have been compromised. 
Barclays looked into Miss Ns concerns but declined to refund the disputed transactions.  It 
said the evidence  indicated that either she had made the withdrawals herself or had failed 
properly to take care of her card and PIN. 
Miss N didnt accept what the bank  had said and referred the matter  to this service, where 
one of our investigators  considered it. Our investigator concluded, on balance,  that Miss N 
had made  or authorised the withdrawals herself.  Miss N didnt accept those conclusions,  
however, and asked  that an ombudsman review the case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have, however, come to broadly  the 
same conclusions, and for similar  reasons. 
Ill consider first of all the use of the card and PIN. The banks records indicate that the chip 
embedded in Miss Ns debit card was read when the withdrawals were made. Thats what Id 
expect where a cash machine is used. Miss N has suggested that her card may have been 
cloned, but I think thats unlikely. Its relatively easy with the right equipment  to copy 
information from the magnetic stripe on a bank  card and to copy that information to a stripe 
on a different card. But copying  and reproducing information to a chip is a very different 
matter, and Im not persuaded that happened here. I think  its more likely  that the genuine 
card was used. 
Miss N hasnt however  been able to identify  any point  at which  someone  else could have 
obtained her card and used it without her knowledge. I note too that she hasnt said it went  
missing, and indeed  that she used it for payments she hasnt  disputed  on 26 December 
2017 and later on 2 January 2018.  So, all the indications  are that she had with her all the 
time  and indeed,  she believes  that to be the case  too. Im not persuaded that anyone  else 
was able to take her card, use it and then return it to her, all without her knowledge. 
Even if I were to reach a different conclusion about the card,  I would need  to consider how 
anyone could have  found out the PIN associated with it. The PIN isnt stored in unencrypted 
form on the card itself, and its unlikely  that someone would have  been  able to guess it. Miss 
N has said, and I accept,  that she didnt keep a record  of it. Its possible that someone saw 
Ref: DRN91973772her entering it at a cash machine or to make a purchase, but there was around  a day 
between Miss Ns previous use of the card and the disputed withdrawals. I think  its unlikely 
that someone watched her using her PIN and then took her card on two separate  occasions  
 returning the card to her each time. 
The investigator noted too that Miss N had regularly logged  onto her account online, but 
hadnt noticed the first withdrawal. He also noted that Miss N had tried to withdraw funds 
herself before the first disputed withdrawal, but had been unable  to do so, and had 
transferred money  to her account.  She didnt make  any further cash withdrawals until nearly 
a month  later.  All of that is, in my view, consistent  with Miss H having made the withdrawals  
herself.      
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Miss N was responsible  for the 
withdrawals shes now disputing. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Miss N's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Miss N to accept or reject my decision  before 5 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9197377