K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc cancelled his direct debits in error when it 
incorrectly tried to close his current account. 
Background
Mr M asked  Co-op to close a savings  account  but on 21 March  2019 it started the process of 
closing his current account instead.  Mr Ms direct debit instructions were cancelled  on 
21 March 2019  but the current account  wasnt fully closed. 
On 25 March 2019 Mr M contacted Co-op  as hed received notice from his insurer  to say his 
direct debit had been  cancelled.  Mr Ms direct debits were  reinstated  by Co-op  the same 
day. Mr M raised a complaint. 
Mr M says he had trouble  with the businesses affected by the direct debit cancellations. Hes 
told us the insurance  company was difficult and thought hed cancelled  his policy. Hes also 
advised he had difficulties dealing with his mobile  phone provider. Mr Ms told us about 
mental health issues he suffers with and has explained that the impact of Co-ops error has 
been significant. 
Co-op responded to Mr Ms complaint on 10 April 2019 and apologised. Co-op sent Mr M 
letters he could forward to the businesses affected to show  it was a bank error that led to his 
direct debits being cancelled. Co-op  also offered Mr M £200 but he didnt accept and 
referred his complaint to our service.  An investigator looked at what happened but said 
Co-op had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and its offer of £200  was reasonable. Mr M 
didnt accept and asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms told us that the impact of Co-ops error  has been significant as he suffers  with mental 
health issues that were  made worse when he had to deal with the businesses affected. Hes 
told us that his insurance company thought his policy had been cancelled and that his mobile 
phone provider was difficult to deal with. I can see that the situation  has caused Mr M 
inconvenience and was very upsetting. Ive taken  what hes told us into account when 
considering how to proceed. 
In this case, all parties agree that Co-op made a mistake when it started the process  of 
closing Mr Ms current account on 21 March 2019 and cancelled his direct  debit instructions. 
The problem only came to light after Mr Ms insurance company contacted him about  the 
cancelled direct debit  instruction  at which point he called Co-op to find out what  had 
happened. 
Whilst I agree Co-op made a mistake, it took quick action  to resolve the situation  once it was 
notified. The direct  debit instructions were reinstated on 25 March 2019.  Ive looked through  
Mr Ms statements and can see that no direct debit payments were missed  as a result  of 
Co-ops mistake. So whist  there  was a mistake in cancelling the direct debits, the impact  of 
the error  was limited  and didnt lead to a financial loss. 
Ref: DRN95350162Co-op has forwarded call recordings  of conversations it had with Mr M. I can hear that his 
insurance company  wrote  to him to say the policy was cancelled with immediate effect. But 
Mr M confirmed to Co-op that after he called the insurer  and explained the situation the 
policy was due to be reinstated. I understand Mr M had to contact his mobile phone provider 
and another business which caused  further inconvenience to him. I note Co-op also sent 
Mr M letters confirming what happened  and that he wasnt  at fault.  
Ive thought about the level of compensation Co-op  has offered. Ive taken into account what 
Mr Ms told us about the effects of the mistake and I understand the situation has impacted 
his mental health.  But I have  to take into account  that the error was administrative in nature 
and resolved reasonable quickly by Co-op  after Mr M called  on 25 March  2019. No direct  
debit payments were  affected and no payments were missed.  I understand Mr M had to call 
Co-op and the businesses  affected and that he found the situation particularly distressing. 
Having considered everything  provided by both sides Im satisfied  £200  fairly reflects the 
impact of Co-ops error  on Mr M. Its very much in line with what  I would have awarded if 
Co-op hadnt made an offer.  
I leave it to Mr M to decide  whether to accept Co-ops offer. 
 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  as Im satisfied  The Co-operative Bank Plc 
has already made a fair offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9535016