K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay out her claim for 
treatment costs for her dog.
background
Ms F made  a claim to RSA for the costs  of veterinary treatment for her dog, V. Ms Fs policy  
came to an end while  V was being  treated for a condition and Ms F had decided not to 
renew it. 
RSA declined Ms Fs claim for treatment that took place after the date her policy had ended.  
And it said as the treatment before  then was below her policy  excess, there was nothing for 
it to pay.
Ms F made  a complaint  to RSA. She said the policy shed bought was advertised as 
veterinary cover for any illness within the policy period for twelve months from the start of 
treatment. There was no suggestion that a second  policy must be purchased  or a further 
premium paid to obtain that cover. The cover was therefore on an incidents occurring basis.
In response to her complaint, RSA referred  to the terms and conditions  of its policy stating 
that it would  not pay claims for any dog when the premium had not been paid. The period of 
insurance is the dates  it provided cover for, as shown on Ms Fs policy  schedule.
Our investigator didnt  think Ms Fs complaint should be upheld.  She said she thought it was 
fair for RSA to decline  paying for the cost of Vs treatment after the date the policy ended.  
She said that Ms F had decided not to renew  her policy with RSA. This meant she was no 
longer insured with RSA, so she could  not claim for treatment costs  incurred after the policy 
had ended.
Ms F disagreed with our investigators view. She said the policy shed purchased advertised 
cover for twelve months veterinary fees.  At no point would twelve  months veterinary fees 
have been paid due to exclusions  in the beginning weeks of the policy.  RSAs policy  terms 
do not state that an additional policy must be purchased or that twelve months veterinary 
fees cover  will end if a further policy is not purchased. 
Ms F said that pet insurance should be no different to other  types of insurance  such  as car, 
home etc, which cover  for incidents  that occur during the policy year even if the 
repercussions of that incident extend outside  of the policy period.
Ms F asked for her case to be referred to an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer must handle claims promptly  and fairly. And it 
also must not unreasonably  reject a claim. 
Ref: DRN96899622RSA hasnt paid out for treatment that took place before  the policy cover ended because  the 
cost was below the policy excess.  Ms F hasnt disagreed with this.
RSA says its declined  her claim for treatment that took place after her cover ended because  
of an exclusion which says it will not pay any claim when your premium  has not been paid. 
I dont disagree with what RSA has said, but I thought it would be helpful to give a more 
detailed explanation as to why I dont think RSA was wrong to turn down Ms Fs claim.
Ms F says RSA should consider her whole claim  including the cost of treatment that took 
place after her cover ended. She feels RSA should  settle her claim because her dog became 
unwell when  her cover was still in place. Shes  likened her pet insurance cover to other types  
of insurance such as car insurance
But pet insurance works differently to car insurance  which protects against the risk of 
accidental loss or damage to a vehicle. A pet insurance policy covers  the cost of treatment 
rather the underlying  event  (i.e. the illness). 
Ms F has sent us a copy of her policy document. Under  the heading important information 
it says that RSA will provide the cover  set out in this policy wording  for the period of 
insurance set out on the policy schedule.
Period of insurance  is defined as the time for which  we provide cover as shown in your 
schedule and for which we have accepted your premium. Ms Fs most recent policy  
schedule shows a cover  end date of 17 January 2019.
In the Veterinary fees cover section of Ms Fs policy document  under what is covered it 
says the cost of fees charged  by a veterinary  practice for consultations, tests, X-rays, 
surgical procedures,  drugs and medication, nursing and hospitalisation.. It goes on to 
explain the types of treatment that are included  under fees.
So the cover  is for the cost of treatment and it is this which must occur within the period  of 
insurance. Both sides agree that Ms F didnt renew  her policy  after the cover  ended on      
17 January 2019.  So I dont think that RSA has acted unfairly by declining her claim for 
veterinary treatment that was carried out after 17 January 2019.
Ive considered all of Ms Fs comments including what shes  said about the policy  being 
advertised as providing cover for12  months  from the start of the treatment.  She says that at 
no point under the policy terms  could one claim for 12 months cover as the first 10 days  of 
the policy are excluded. 
The policy terms says it will provide cover for up to 12 months from the start of the 
treatment. It goes on to say that once the 12 month  limit or the monetary limit has been  
reached you will no longer be able to claim for that condition. 
This means  that cover  is limited for treatment costing up to the amount stated on the 
document for up to 12 months  from when the condition starts. It doesnt change  the fact that 
the policy still needed to be in force when the treatment took place.
Ref: DRN96899623The policy document says vet fees payable  for any changes in your pets health or 
behaviour you or your vet notices within the first 10 days of the first period of insurance  of 
your policy unless previously agreed by us are not covered. But as it only excludes the first 
10 days of the first period of insurance,  it would still be possible to claim for up to 12 months 
treatment if the policy  was renewed.  So Ms Fs comments regarding  this dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9689962