K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about Santander UK Plc (Santander) regarding charges applied  to 
their overdraft. They want the charges to be refunded, along with interest. 
background
Mr and Mrs B have  held accounts  with Santander  for some time. 
In early 2018, Mrs B wrote to Santander, asking for all charges  that had been applied  to her 
account over the previous 6 years  to be refunded. 
Santander sent Mrs B its final response in February 2018, refusing her request and giving 
her details of our service.  
Mrs B wrote again to Santander in early 2019,  requesting that charges be refunded to her. 
She explained that she was experiencing financial difficulties and that these were 
exacerbated by charges of authorised and unauthorised  overdraft use being incurred on her 
account. 
Santander sent her its final response  in February  2019, again refusing the request. 
Santander advised that Mrs B could speak with the Financial Assist  team  to discuss her 
difficulties. 
Mr and Mrs B were  not happy  with this response  and contacted  us. 
One of out investigators has looked into their concerns and set out their view to the parties. 
This was that we were unable to look at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint from early 2018,  as it had 
not been brought to us within  the time limits set out in Santanders response. In respect  of 
the charges incurred since February 2018, our investigator explained that, since  the 
Supreme Court ruled on this issue in 2009, we are not able to consider whether the charges 
for an authorised or unauthorised overdraft were reasonable, but could  only look at whether 
they had been charged  in line with the account  terms,  and properly notified to the customer.  
As a result, the investigator considered that Santander had met its account terms and had 
not acted unfairly.  
Mr and Mrs B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs upset  at the amount  that they have collectively incurred  of 
charges over the period.  Mrs B has explained  that the cycle of charges for her authorised 
overdraft in particular  have made  it more difficult to get out of her overdraft and out of debt. 
I do, however,  endorse the investigators comments that it is not open to our service to 
review the reasonableness of the charges.  It appears from the evidence before me that the 
charges were all applied as described  in the account terms and conditions, and Santander 
appears to have given proper  notice  of the charges  before  deducting them from the account.  
Ref: DRN95923142On that basis, I agree  with the investigators conclusion that Santander has not acted 
improperly in applying the charges. 
Mrs B has, however, set out some details of her financial difficulties. Whilst Santander  is not 
obliged to stop applying charges, it is obliged to treat Mr and Mrs B positively and 
sympathetically, in the circumstances of their financial difficulties. 
I cannot see evidence  that Mr or Mrs B took up the option to speak to the Financial Assist 
team, but I would encourage them to do so now. If they provide information  to Santander 
about their financial  difficulties and then consider that Santander has not treated them 
positively and sympathetically they would  be able to raise a complaint to Santander  and 
then, if necessary, to us. 
Looking at the current complaint, however, I am unable to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
I appreciate that this decision  will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs B, but I hope it explains 
why I have reached this view. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask 
Santander UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592314