K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W applied  for a secured  loan in January 1998. They bought a monthly premium 
PPI policy  at the same time. Neither party  can confirm where  the sale took place. The PPI 
was in Mr Ws sole name and provided  him with cover for accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  so the case  was
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they were told if they didnt have  PPI they wouldnt be able to have a 
loan. But theyve also said PPI wasnt mentioned  during the sale. I cant  know exactly  what  
was said in the meeting, so Ive thought about  their comments  carefully  and looked at the 
paperwork available from the sale. On their loan agreement the cost of PPI is set out 
separately next to the wording Add: Monthly  Premium  for Optional Credit Insurance. 
So overall, I think its most likely Nationwide made Mr and Mrs W aware the PPI was 
optional and they chose to take it for Mr W. I can understand they might not remember this 
as the sale was over 20 years ago.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide recommended the policy  so it didnt have  to
check if it was suitable  for Mr W. But it had to give Mr and Mrs W clear information about the 
PPI so they could  decide  whether the cover was right for them.  Its possible they didnt have 
all the information  they needed  when they agreed  to buy the PPI. But that doesnt 
necessarily mean I should uphold  the complaint. I have to decide  whether I think they are 
any worse off if they didnt  know everything  about the policy.
Based on Mr Ws circumstances,  I think they would still have bought  this policy.  I say this
because:
Mr W was eligible  for the cover.
There were  some  terms of the policy that would make it less useful for some  people. 
But it seems Mr W wouldnt have been  affected  by such terms. So I think I dont think  
they would  have made a different decision with more information  on the main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr W told us he was entitled  to nine months sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out 
for up 24 months for accident  and sickness  claims, in addition  to his sick pay. It also 
Ref: DRN90159792gave him up to 12 months for unemployment cover. They  were  borrowing quite a 
large sum of money over a long period of time, secured against  their home. Given 
the serious consequences of not being able to repay their loan, I think  the cover 
wouldve been useful  to Mr and Mrs W if Mr W was sick or lost his job.
The monthly cost was set out clearly on the loan agreement so Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve known what they would be paying, and it was apparently affordable.  
So I dont  think there was anything about  the policy that would have  put Mr and Mrs W off
buying it for Mr W if theyd known all about it. 
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 August  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9015979