K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy about  
the service it has provided following a claim under  his car insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs courtesy car was involved in an incident  in May 2018 and a claim was advanced  
under his policy. He wasnt happy about  this as the named driver was responsible for the car 
at that point in time and he believed she had been taken off the policy. This was because he 
thought that he had removed her from cover before the accident.
This issue was considered under  a separate complaint. This concluded that the named 
driver hadnt been  removed at the time of the accident and this resulted  in a fault claim. 
Mr B then complained about the level of service Advantage provided  while  dealing  with his 
complaint. And the fact it cancelled  his policy. He thought that Advantage had agreed with 
him that the aforementioned claim was fraudulent; that it had made mistakes; and that it 
cancelled his policy in error. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and partly upheld  his complaint. He listened to 
the various calls and thought that Advantage had tried to assist  Mr B and provide  answers  
as best it could. But it didnt admit that the named  driver  on his policy had been fraudulent. 
And it tried to ensure it understood his latest  complaint fully. However, he thought that its 
offer of £50 compensation for the error  in cancelling his policy should be increased  to £100.
Mr B accepted this but Advantage didnt. It thought that its offer of £50 compensation was 
fair. So the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I know Mr B doesnt agree  with how the claim was advanced against  his policy originally.  But 
that has been considered separately  so I wont be looking at that issue here. And as Mr B 
accepts the investigators  view, as outlined above,  Ill stick to the key remaining issue in 
considering his complaint. And that is the level of compensation Advantage has offered in 
relation to the incorrect cancellation of Mr Bs policy.
I can see that Advantage believes that its offer of £50 compensation is sufficient to cover  the 
fact that it cancelled Mr Bs policy and failed to communicate with him properly as it had an 
incorrect telephone  number noted down  for him. But I dont agree.
I say this as it mustve been  very upsetting for Mr B to have his policy cancelled for non-
cooperation only to find out that it was in fact the named driver (that he has had such 
difficulty with) who was failing to cooperate. And it mustve been  frustrating for him to not 
receive the updates he was expecting as it had taken  down  his contact number incorrectly.
So, I agree  that the fair thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is to pay 
Mr B £100  compensation.
Ref: DRN99548632my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  And I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9954863