K821x#15Complaint
Miss S complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc refused to refund payments that left her account
which she says she didnt  make. She wants HSBC to refund the payments.
Background
Much of what follows repeats the same background facts detailed  in my provisional decision. 
Ive stated them again for the purposes of making  a final decision.
Miss S is a customer of HSBC and holds a current account and a savings account. She says
she felt forced into sending a fraudster her debit card and PIN, and the log-in details to her
online account. She never realised the money held in her savings account  would be, or
could be, transferred to her current account by the fraudster and then spent.
Between 30  31 August 2018 all of the funds in Miss S savings account were transferred to
her current  account and spent. There were  19 transactions  in total. 18 were  made  using
Miss Ss card and PIN to a pawnbroker and several money exchange businesses in and
around London. And one large  payment was made  using online banking  to a third party  set
up as a new payee.
Here is a summary of what Miss S says happened:
-Miss S saw messages posted  on a popular social  media application on her mobile
phone from fellow pupils  who attended her school. The messages asked for
someone to contact them if they wanted to earn money. Miss S was attracted to the
message as she and her immediate family  struggle financially.
-Miss S contacted the pupils  from her school. They said they had made money
through taking  part in an activity. And they provided names of other people who had
made money, which assured Miss S. They encouraged her to contact another 
person, an adult male  - whose details they gave  and she could earn £1,000.
-Miss S communicated with the new contact by text. He began asking her questions
about her, such as her age, name and address. But each day his questions grew  in
importance. He asked for her sort code and account number. And he then asked for
the last three digits of the security code on the back of Miss S debit card.
-Miss S became concerned about what was happening. But the person said she
would get into trouble  with the police if she didnt  do what he said,  so she was
frightened and didnt know what to do. The pupils she had spoken  to also threatened
her if she didnt go ahead with what she was being  asked  to do.
-Miss S was eventually  persuaded to send her card and PIN through  the post to the
man, as well as her online account access details. She was told not to log on to her
online account, as this could ruin her chances of receiving any money.
-Miss S wasnt sure how money would be made, but thought she was okay  as her
current account had a low balance, so there wasnt a risk of losing money.  The
person she was communicating with had only ever discussed using an empty
account. And without  the secure  code  to her savings account, which she hadnt
revealed, she thought  her savings were safe.
Ref: DRN97721342-Miss S logged on to her account at one point due to her growing  concern.  She saw
her savings had transferred to her current account.  She messaged  the person and
said the funds  needed to be returned. The person told her not to worry, and the funds
would be returned.  Miss S chased the person  for the return of her funds, but they
stopped responding to her.
-Miss S confided in a youth worker about  what happened. Miss S mum was
contacted, after which the matter was reported  to HSBC and the police.
Miss S mum represents her in bringing this complaint. Her mum told us Miss S was very
vulnerable at the time this happened  and still is. Miss S has several conditions which affect
her well-being and medical evidence has been  provided in support. I want  both Miss S and
her mum  to know I have taken on board what theyve said,  and I understand how vulnerable
Miss S was at the time this happened.
I issued a provisional decision on Miss S complaint in February  2021. I provisionally  upheld 
the complaint  but reached a different outcome  on what redress HSBC ought to pay than the 
investigator who first provided an answer to the complaint. My provisional findings  were:
Im satisfied Miss S was the unfortunate victim of being targeted by a criminal, who coerced
her into revealing information  about  her account. HSBC  doubted  Miss S heard about  the
activity via a social media  post made  by pupils who attended her school. But I find Miss S
explanation plausible and consistent.  Ive reviewed a police report which  confirms  those
pupils names. And I doubt Miss S would risk giving  an untruthful  record  to the police, given
how serious the consequences  would  be.
HSBC says its not liable for the payments. Miss S had breached the terms of her current
account and online banking facility. HSBC had sent her a text to confirm  the spend  on the
account was genuine at the time of the third payment. And it had sent an online secure key
code, which  was used  to transfer funds  from her savings account. Miss S confirmed the
payment by replying  to the text. And she confirmed she sent the code to the person
accessing her account after they told her to, although she didnt know what  the code was for.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations  2017 (PSRs) Miss S is liable for payments she
authorised. What I mean by authorised is its meaning under the regulations.  So,
authorisation doesnt mean here whether Miss S knew about  and agreed  to each payment,
which its clear  she didnt.
Miss S says she didnt  think  any payments would leave her account. But she did actively
give her account security information  to someone  else, which  authorised access to her
account and online facility. And, she likely knew this meant someone would transact  on the
account in some way. After all, why else would the card and PIN be needed.
So, although  Miss S didnt  realise her savings  would be transferred, or she would suffer a
loss, under the PSRs she authorised the payments and is liable for them. But the PSRs
arent the only thing  I must consider in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome  in all
the circumstances of this complaint.
I also need to consider  the law, regulators  rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time. Having done so, I find
HSBC ought to have:
Ref: DRN97721343-Monitored Miss S accounts and any payments made or received to counter various
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and
preventing fraud and scams.
-Looked out for unusual transactions or other signs  that might  indicate Miss S was at 
risk of fraud  (among  other things). This is particularly so given the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent years, which banks are generally more  
familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect her from the possibility 
of financial harm  from fraud.
The spend  on Miss S account was very unusual for her. The balance on her current account
was normally low, and only small value purchases were made. And any previous transfers
from Miss S savings account were usually one-off payments. So, the transfer of Miss S
entire savings to her current account and subsequent spend was very unusual.
The payments out of the current account and their frequency were markedly different to
Miss S usual spend. 18 payments  were made  to a pawnbroker and multiple money
exchange business around  London, whereas Miss S lives in the north of England. The Chip
and PIN payments also follow  a clear pattern. The payer made payments for the same or a
very similar amount at each business  they visited. And one payment was a large transfer to
a new payee.  So, the nature of the payments was in my view unusual  for any person  Miss S
age.
HSBC ought to have been concerned  by what was happening on Miss S current  account.
So, in line with its responsibilities, it needed to take sufficient action to assure itself that
Miss S wasnt falling victim  to a fraud or suffering financial harm.
HSBC sent a text message to Miss S mobile phone asking her to confirm the first three
payments out of her account were  genuine. Miss S says she received the text and contacted
the fraudster accessing  her account  who told her to confirm  the payment, which she did.
Shed been  told to contact the fraudster,  should she receive communication  from HSBC
about her account.
HSBC took no further action  despite  a further  16 payments leaving Miss S account.  And, on
balance, Im not satisfied  it was reasonable for HSBC not to have done anything more.  Ill
explain why.
HSBC is well placed to understand the sophistication and prevalence  of fraud.  And it ought
to be aware that children  are targeted by fraudsters  in order for their accounts to be used for
criminal purposes. Its fair to say children on the whole  are less likely to be aware of the risks
of fraud  and how it happens. To this extent  they are more likely to be vulnerable to financial
harm.
A text message may be sufficient in some circumstances for a firm to fulfil its responsibility
towards a customer,  but this doesnt mean  its sufficient in all circumstances. By the fifth
payment instruction, HSBC ought to have been  concerned by what was happening.
Ref: DRN97721344When Miss S replied to HSBCs text, she confirmed the first two payments to a pawnbroker
and a third payment to a money exchange business. One further payment was made to the
money exchange business for the exact  same  amount. While this was odd, I can understand
why HSBC might still have relied  on the previous text confirmation  because the payment
was to the same business.
But the fifth payment was made  to a different money  exchange business, which was clearly
concerning. At that point HSBC ought to have picked up on a suspicious pattern of spending.
Clearly going  to different money exchange  businesses one after the other is unusual, and
not something associated with Miss S prior account usage or someone Miss S age .
HSBC knew Miss S age and it ought to have  realised it needed to speak to her to
understand more  about what was happening, and why these payments were being  made.
Had HSBC spoken  to Miss S and asked appropriate questions, I doubt it wouldve been
persuaded she knew what was happening  on her account, or what payments had been
made. At that time, Miss S was unaware  her savings were being spent; something she
clearly wouldnt want to happen.
If HSBC had spoken to Miss S, I find it ought  to have at least  asked questions surrounding:
- Why Miss S was using up all of her savings?
- What  was the last payment  that left her account,  and what was this and the previous
payments for?
- Did Miss S intend to make further  payments that day and how many?
- Was Miss S parent  or guardian aware  of what  was happening?
- Where  was Miss S currently? Miss S lives in the north of England,  and the payments
were made in and around London.
Miss S didnt know what payments were being  made, and she hadnt been given a narrative
about what to say before being contacted HSBC, so I cant  see how she couldve provided
satisfactory answers to questions of this type.
HSBC may think Miss S wouldve contacted  the fraudster if they had spoken to her. So, the
fraudster wouldve told her what to say to allay HSBCs concerns. But if Miss S had asked
HSBC to wait before  answering its questions, this wouldve  been  more of a concern. After
all, needing to speak to a third party before answering a question strongly indicates
something is wrong. A customer ought to be able to describe whats happened on their
account straight away.
But Im not persuaded Miss S wouldve contacted the fraudster if HSBC  had spoken to her.
She wouldve been shocked  to hear her savings were being spent. Shed have likely realised
her money was being stolen and wouldve wanted to stop further loss of the funds her mum
had carefully built up for her future.
So had HSBC  contacted Miss S by phone  and asked relevant questions, I dont think  further
payments wouldve been allowed to leave  her account. Im satisfied that HSBC needs to pay
her redress  in consideration of her financial loss.
Ref: DRN97721345But I have also considered Miss S role in her loss. She gave away her card and PIN and
online security details.  So, I think she should bear some of the loss which  resulted from her
breaching the terms of her account.  However, I have still borne in mind  Miss S age and that
she was going  through  a very difficult time which made her more  vulnerable  to manipulation
by an adult fraudster.
HSBC has referred to a complaint featured in an issue of Ombudsman News, which wasnt
upheld by an ombudsman. It says Miss S complaint is similar and so it shouldnt  be upheld.
But each complaint is considered on its own individual facts. And I dont find the complaint
HSBC referenced means Miss S complaint is the same. Im satisfied Miss S complaint
should be upheld  for the reasons Ive given.
Ive considered what Miss S mum said about  HSBC  contacting  her daughter  without her
being present.  I appreciate she was concerned about her daughters welfare,  but I have
listened to both calls and havent found HSBC communicated with Miss S unfairly. Miss S
understood the questions she was asked and answered them truthfully.  The advisors she
spoke to were sympathetic  indeed one of them recognised her experience mustve been
harrowing and very difficult.
Miss S responded to my provisional decision and accepted my findings. HSBC responded 
and didnt accept  them. It said:  
-The complaint  shouldnt be upheld because Miss S actions to earn money led to her 
loss, and she misled HSBC by responding positively to the text alert it sent.  
-Miss S would have  likely responded the same way to further  texts  or if HSBC spoke 
to her.
-It didnt understand  the basis of why I thought it should pay 80% of Miss Ss losses 
and not a lesser  sum.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Miss S complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional  decision. The findings I 
made in my provisional  decision are copied above, and form part of this final decision.
I find Miss S didnt intend for her savings to be transferred to her current  account and spent. 
Instead, given  the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  she was coerced into giving away some 
of her security details, particularly her card and PIN. And Im also satisfied  Miss S was 
particularly vulnerable given her age and the conditions which  impact  her well-being. So, in 
this context,  I dont think Miss S breaching her account terms is sufficient to disregard what  
HSBC ought to have done when payments were leaving Miss S account.
Im not satisfied Miss S would have  said she recognised the payments out of her account 
had HSBC contacted her by phone when it received the instruction for the fifth payment. 
Miss S wouldve discovered  her savings had been  transferred and were being spent. And 
Ref: DRN97721346considering how important those savings were  to her and her mother, its likely she would 
have wanted to prevent any further loss.
 
Miss S carries  some responsibility  for her loss by giving away account  security details. She 
shouldnt have embarked on an exercise  to earn money that entailed giving away  some of 
those details. I consider  HSBC refunding  80% of her total financial loss is a proportionate 
and fair sum to account  for her liability. 
In reaching this figure, I considered Miss S individual circumstances; particularly  her age 
and vulnerability,  and the position she found herself  in - an adult fraudster coerced her into 
revealing information. I also considered the extent  of HSBCs failure  not to contact  Miss S as 
it shouldve done.  It clearly ought  to have been concerned  by what  was happening on Miss 
S account given  what it knew  about  her typical account activity, her age, her location, and 
the types of transactions  it was being asked to make.
Putting things  right
HSBC should  calculate the total loss to Miss S account from (and including) the fifth 
payment onwards.
HSBC should  then apply the interest rate which wouldve accrued on that amount had the
funds been transferred back  to Miss S savings account.
HSBC should  then calculate 80% of the total sum, and pay that sum to Miss S.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Miss S complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss S 
redress in line with the directions Ive given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9772134