K822xcomplaint
Mrs L has complained  about  U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) delay  in responding to a claim  
she made under her home  emergency  policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agent. 
background 
Around midnight  on 29 November 2017  Mrs L called UKI as she didnt have any heating or 
hot water. UKI said it couldnt  call anyone out at that time but would  contact an engineer  in 
the morning. UKI contacted Mrs L the next morning to say it has arranged for someone to 
come out to her.
A few hours later UKI let Mrs L know that it wasnt able to get anyone out to her as it didnt 
have any engineers available. It offered her the opportunity to call out an engineer herself  
but Mrs L didnt  think  shed be able to if UKI couldnt find one. And she said she didnt know  
of any that she could call. She said she was also worried about finding someone reputable. 
UKI said it kept trying to find an engineer  and on 1 December let Mrs L know that someone 
would be out to her that day. Mrs L said shed  become unwell from the cold and had bought  
a heater to try to keep  warm. UKI said it would reimburse Mrs L the £69 shed paid for the 
heater. 
Later that day  before  the engineer attended   Mrs L called UKI to say there  were  further  
problems with the boiler. She said her neighbour had reported water  flowing down the 
outside of her house. Her neighbour located  the problem and stopped the water from flowing 
out.
The engineer arrived shortly afterwards and carried out some repairs.  He noted  a number of 
maintenance issues with Mrs Ls heating system. These included  a radiator being heavily 
corroded, the valve on the immersion  heater being  fitted upside down and the cold water 
storage tank being warped. The engineer  said he couldnt carry out the necessary repairs in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions because of these problems and advised   
Mrs L to get these fixed. The engineer also noted  that hed disconnected a faulty extension 
lead Mrs L was using.  He said the plug of one of the heaters she was using had melted.
Mrs L complained to UKI about the service shed received.  She said shed had to buy two 
heaters to keep warm and wanted  compensating as shed become unwell due to the cold.
UKI offered Mrs L £25 compensation and said it would pay for one heater. It accepted it 
hadnt got an engineer  to her as quickly as it would have liked but said it had tried hard to 
find one and had given Mrs L the option of finding  someone herself. 
Mrs L didnt think this was enough and brought her complaint to us. She said UKI could have 
offered her alternative accommodation  as her policy provided this. She thought the delays in 
UKI attending had also caused her storage tank to warp when hot water ran into it shortly  
before the engineer attended. She provided  quotes  from engineers  to say the tank had 
warped due to hot water  running  into it. So she thought UKI should pay for this. Mrs L also 
wanted UKI to pay for two heaters as well as further  compensation  for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN91267102Our investigator didnt  think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She thought  UKI had taken 
longer than it should have  done  to send an engineer  but thought it had tried hard to find one 
and offered her the chance  to find her own. She thought Mrs L had ordered the first heater 
before phoning  UKI so she would always have  needed to do that. She didnt think it was 
UKIs fault the cold water tank had warped. So overall  she thought UKIs offer was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs L didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. She also told us she wanted to 
provide a statement from her neighbour as she thought the water running  from the side of 
the house had caused the storage tank to warp. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied UKIs made 
a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. 
Mrs L has made a number of detailed points and I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy 
that Im going to focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.  
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ls policy say if theres an emergency  in her home it will 
send someone out straight away or arrange  a suitable time. It says it will pay up to £500 for 
the emergency call out and if her home  isnt fit to be lived in it will arrange emergency 
accommodation. The policy says it doesnt  cover losses  which have been caused by not 
maintaining any system  or appliance  in line with manufacturers instructions. 
Theres no dispute that UKI didnt get an engineer out to Mrs L as quickly  as it should  have  
done. I appreciate  her frustration at this and accept it must have been distressing for her in 
the cold weather,  especially as shed  understood from her policy  that someone would be out 
to her straight away. UKIs offered Mrs L £25 and to reimburse her the £69 shes  paid for a 
heater. In the circumstances Im satisfied thats  a fair and reasonable offer and Ill explain my 
reasons for this.
I can see UKI did its best to find an engineer to send to Mrs L. While I ultimately hold it 
responsible for the actions of its agents I can see from its claim notes that it made  a number 
of efforts  to find someone. UKI also gave Mrs L the option of calling someone out herself. 
While I appreciate she didnt know anyone to call I can see she later found  three  companies  
to provide a quote for the repairs and to give their view on how the cold water tank became 
damaged. 
I can see Mrs L ordered one heater before  she called UKI and another when she realised 
the repairs would take longer than they should. I appreciate  Mrs L said she would have sent 
the first one back if the repairs had been  done.  But I think its likely she would have needed 
to keep it as it might  still have taken  UKI some  time to send someone out in line with its 
usual service level agreement. However I think its right it reimburses her for the second 
heater as she wouldnt have needed  to buy this.
I understand Mrs Ls policy provides a nights emergency accommodation if her house isnt 
fit to stay in. But I havent seen  enough  to persuade me the house  wasnt fit to live in as it 
had heaters.
Ref: DRN91267103Mrs L feels UKIs delay in sending an engineer means the storage tank became warped. 
And shes provided quotes  from engineers  to support this view. I accept from those quotes 
its likely  the tank was damaged by hot water escaping into the tank.  But that doesnt mean I 
think UKIs delay caused that. 
I understand Mrs L wants to provide us with a statement from her neighbour about  the water  
that ran down the side of her house before the engineer arrived but she hasnt been  able to 
get this yet. Ive considered this carefully  and I dont think I need to wait for that statement. 
Thats because even  if Mrs L provided a statement from her neighbour saying hot water  was 
escaping from her house it wouldnt be enough  to persuade me it had damaged the storage 
tank. Ill now explain why.
UKI said Mrs L called  for emergency assistance  as she didnt have heating or hot water. 
That means there wasnt any hot water in the immersion  heater. It said even if water 
escaped shortly before the engineer arrived, its unlikely  to have been hot water as Mrs L 
had already reported it as not working. Im persuaded by this view as I think  its unlikely there 
was any hot water to cause the damage after Mrs L reported the issue.  I think its most likely 
this happened  before Mrs L called UKI for assistance while her heating  was working. The 
age of the heating system and the other  maintenance issues  reported  by the engineer  
support my view on this as it seems  a number of repairs were already needed. And these 
arent covered by her policy. 
I understand Mrs L thinks UKIs delays also put her at risk due to using  heaters  where  the 
plug had melted. But I dont think its UKIs fault Mrs L was using a faulty extension lead. So 
Im not going  to ask it to compensate her for that.
When taking everything into account  I can understand the distress and inconvenience Mrs L 
experienced at not having any heating for two days and nights. However Im satisfied UKIs 
offer of compensation is fair and reasonable so Im not going to ask it to do anything else.  
my final decision
I understand U K Insurance  Limited  has offered to pay Mrs L £25 compensation and £69 to 
reimburse her for one heater. I conclude thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
so my final decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Mrs L £25 compensation and 
£69 to reimburse her for one heater if it hasnt already  done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9126710