K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with their claim
when Mrs B injured her shoulder while on holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs B have  travel insurance with IPA. In October 2018, while  on holiday in Thailand,
Mrs B had an accident and sustained an injury  to her right shoulder. She was prescribed
medication but after about two weeks attended  hospital as she was in severe pain. An MRI
scan was arranged which showed calcific  tendinitis  and a torn rotator cuff. Immediate
surgery was recommended.
Mr B contacted IPA for assistance and was sent forms to complete and asked  to obtain a
medical report. He returned the completed forms to IPA on 27 October  2018,  together with a
medical report confirming  details of Mrs Bs condition  and that immediate surgery was
recommended.
IPA accept they should have then passed  the case to their medical team  to assess,
contacted Mr B to confirm  what treatment Mrs B required, and assisted  with her return to the
UK. But this didnt happen.
Mr B next contacted  IPA on 7 November 2018  when he and his wife were back in the UK.
IPA raised a complaint on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf,  which they upheld, and offered them £450
for the trouble and upset  theyd suffered.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with IPAs response  as they felt the compensation offered
wasnt adequate  and they complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case
and although she accepted that IPA had acknowledged they hadnt actioned  Mr and Mrs Bs
claim, as they should have done,  she didnt think the compensation theyd offered was
enough, as the medical  report said Mrs B was in severe pain. So, she recommended the
award for trouble and upset be increased  to £1500, inclusive of the £450  IPA had offered.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  confirm they accepted our investigators opinion and IPA didnt accept
it, so the case has come  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 10 January 2020. In it I said:-
IPA accept that when  Mr B contacted  them the case wasnt  handled  as it should have been.
What I need to consider is whether the compensation IPA offered is enough to compensate
Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and upset they suffered, as a result of IPAs  failure  to refer the
case to their medical team for assessment.
After Mrs B was seen in hospital on 27 October 2018 immediate surgery  was recommended
to repair  her torn rotator cuff. When IPA responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, they said
their medical team had considered the medical  report and didnt think immediate surgery
was required,  so they wouldnt have  authorised  this. Theyd simply have assisted with
arrangements for Mr and Mrs B to return home.
Ref: DRN99164392Mr B has told us that their family  holiday was ruined as a result of IPAs  failure  to assist 
them. Mrs B had her surgery after she returned  home. Mr B has also told us that her right 
arm was in a sling for some weeks, she was unable to cook  or wash herself,  he had to take 
time off work to care for her and because  of this they were struggling to pay their mortgage.
The need  for surgery arose as a result of the injury  Mrs B sustained.  Following this injury
Mrs B required surgery  from which it would always have taken her time to recover.  I can only
consider whether IPAs actions led to additional pain and suffering and increased her 
recovery period.
The only medical  evidence I have seen is the very brief report  from the Thai hospital which
recommends surgery. I havent seen  any medical evidence from the hospital in the UK
where Mrs B had her surgery. So, I have  no evidence  of whether Mrs B having her surgery
in the UK, rather than in Thailand  when  it was first recommended, or travelling home on her
pre-booked flight, has had any impact on the pain and suffering she experienced or on her
recovery period. And without such evidence I cant hold IPA responsible  for losses which 
arose as a result of Mrs Bs injury, rather than their actions.
After Mr and Mrs B submitted  their claim to IPA theyve  simply told us they didnt hear from
them. It appears that Mr B didnt  attempt to contact IPA again until 7 November 2018, when
they were back in the UK and after Mrs Bs surgery. While IPA should certainly have
contacted them, having submitted their claim I would  have expected  Mr and Mrs B to chase
for a response, when they didnt hear from IPA. I dont have any evidence of any attempts
they made to contact  IPA, or an explanation  of why this wasnt  done.
IPA have told us their medical team assessed the report from the Thai hospital,  and based
on this didnt consider  Mrs B needed  urgent surgery in Thailand.  Based on the evidence Ive
seen I can only consider whether the £450 compensation IPA have offered is reasonable.
And I think it is, as theyre compensating Mrs B for their failure  to assist with her return
home, and any additional  pain and suffering  she may have experienced as I result of this.
On the evidence Ive seen  I dont  think the £1500 compensation  our investigator
recommended is reasonable. But if Mr and Mrs B wish to accept the £450 compensation IPA
have offered, they should contact them.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
IPA havent responded to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they dont think its fair that Ive taken away the compensation 
our investigator recommended. 
Theyve provided copies  of some letters from the hospital where Mrs B had her surgery. 
These confirm Mrs B had surgery  on her right shoulder on 15 December 2018 to repair her 
torn rotator cuff. On her discharge from hospital she was provided with a referral to the 
District Nurse at her GP surgery for her dressings to be changed, and she was to be 
reviewed by her consultant in six to eight weeks. By the end of February 2019 Mrs B was 
said to be out of her sling and progressing well, but she still had a limited  range of movement 
in her shoulder and wasnt  fit to return to work.  She was to be reviewed again in a month.
Mr and Mrs B have  also provided a letter from her employers which confirms she was asked 
to attend a meeting in mid-February 2019  to discuss her ongoing  absence  from work.
Ref: DRN99164393my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further information Mr and Mrs B have provided confirms that she had her surgery on 
15 December 2018. So when Mr B contacted IPA after they returned home, Mrs B hadnt 
had her surgery as I understood when I issued my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs B havent provided any information  to show how her recovery  progressed after 
February 2019. But based on the information  they have provided, I havent seen anything  to 
suggest Mrs Bs recovery was prolonged by IPA not offering  assistance  before she returned  
to the UK. 
I understand that it has taken time for Mrs B to recover from her surgery,  and shes suffered 
pain and inconvenience, but based on all the evidence Ive seen, this was due to the injury 
she sustained rather than the actions of IPA. 
So I havent changed my opinion that the compensation  IPA offered Mr and Mrs B was 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9916439