K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of the car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement  
with FCA Automotive  Services UK Ltd (FAS UK Ltd).
background
FAS UK Ltd supplied a used car to Mr G in March  2017. 
Mr G suggests  he has returned the car to the dealership around twenty times for various 
issues, including problems with the sunroof. According to him, despite several attempts to fix 
the problem with the sunroof, it is still there.
Further, Mr G is unhappy with the service he has received from the dealership. In particular, 
he thinks it has provided inaccurate information  about when  and how often he has had to 
bring the car back to it. 
Moreover, he is exasperated with the shortcomings  of the car. He tells us the various  
problems have been going  on for years. He has come to the point where  he wants  to reject 
the car.
FAS UK Ltd sees things differently. It doesnt agree that the car has had ongoing problems. 
Neither does it accept that those faults were  there  from the get-go. It suggests in any event 
Mr G shouldnt be allowed to reject the car because he accepted repairs in lieu of his right to 
reject and so has lost that right,  if he ever had it.
In addition, it points  out, he has had done  more mileage in the car than he ought  to have 
done under  the agreement. It indicates this shows whatever he says is wrong with the car, 
this has not stopped him, from making good  use of it. However, as a goodwill gesture it 
offered to take £250 off anything Mr G owed  if he wanted to settle the agreement  or to give 
him £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Dissatisfied, Mr G came to our service.
We looked into Mr Gs complaint. Our investigator recommended  upholding it. She could see 
that Mr G had had to return the car for repairs on a number of occasions. In particular, she 
was persuaded  that the dealership had had more than one try at fixing  the sunroof problem, 
but it is still there. 
On balance she thought the sunroof had not worked properly from the time the car was 
supplied to Mr G. In the circumstances she was persuaded  that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. On that basis,  she thought it was fair that 
Mr G be allowed to reject the car. 
Also, she said the agreement should be ended with Mr G owing nothing further. And she 
said FAS UK Ltd should  collect the car at no cost to Mr G. She asked that it refund the 
deposit with interest,  remove any adverse information it had registered regarding the 
agreement from Mr Gs credit file. Finally, she required it to pay Mr G an additional  £100  for 
distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN90992512Mr G accepted our investigators recommendation. FAS UK Ltd didnt. In summary, FAS UK 
Ltd didnt think  our investigator  had any proper basis to ask it to accept  the rejection of the 
car. It didnt agree  that there was any information  to show that the sunroof has not been  of 
satisfactory quality when the car was supplied.  It thought the problem  was intermittent and 
that all it needed  was a simple fix.
In any event, FAS UK Ltd wants  to be able to charge Mr G for any damage to the car and 
any excess mileage, should  he be allowed to return the car. We put this point to Mr G. Mr G 
agreed hed pay for any excess mileage. 
FAS UK Ltd asked that an ombudsman review Mr Gs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
satisfactory quality
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to  think  about the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FAS UK Ltd is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and is 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant  law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance, freedom from minor defects, safety,  
and durability can be aspects of the quality  of goods.
In this case the car supplied was a used  car with a mileage of 1,682  and had a cash price  of 
£31, 500. In order  to uphold this complaint I would have to be persuaded the car was not of 
satisfactory quality and so a breach  of the contract has taken  place.
Further, Mr G and FAS UK Ltd disagree  about  whether the car had a fault at the point of 
supply which  made the car not of satisfactory quality. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN90992513The parties disagree about when Mr G first complained about the sun roof. But they both 
agree that he did complain several  times about it and that the dealership tried to repair  the 
sunroof at least once.  Mr G has complained that the problem with the sunroof is still there 
and he has sent us information  to support what he says. FAS UK Ltd suggest it has not had 
an opportunity to check for itself if the fault is present. But I think it is fair to point out that it 
could have asked  to inspect the car at any point to confirm this to its own satisfaction, but it 
did not. By contrast, Mr G has sent us video footage amongst other things to demonstrate 
the problem. On balance I am persuaded the problem still exists.   
In addition, Ive looked at the age, price  and mileage of the car and how long Mr G has had 
it. I accept  that wear and tear problems can arise  which is what  FAS UK Ltd seems  to be 
suggesting is the case here. But Id not expect a sunroof to stop working so soon given the 
age of the car, the price  paid for the car, how much Mr G has driven it and how long he has 
had it. It does not seem likely that the sunroof is not working due to an issue caused  by wear 
and tear. 
Plus, I think a reasonable person would expect the sunroof to be far more  durable.  It is 
feature that is meant to be opened and closed on a repeated  basis  even in a British climate. 
Yet from the information I have seen this problem has persisted throughout the time he has 
had the car. It may well be that the problem has been intermittent. But that does not mean  it 
is not a quality issue. 
I am persuaded that Mr G has been  back and forth with this car for the same repairs on 
more than one occasion. In particular,  he has tried to get the problems with the sunroof 
fixed. As I have also mentioned I think that the problems with the sunroof are still there. FAS 
UK Ltd has had more  than one chance  to put things  right. I dont agree that Mr G ought to be 
made to accept yet another repair attempt.
For all of these reasons, in the circumstances, I think it more likely than not that the sunroof 
had these problems  at the point  of supply. It follows I think  the because of this the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  when supplied. FAS UK Ltd has already had at least one chance  to 
fix it. Im satisfied  that has not sorted  the problem out. For all these reasons I think it is fair 
and reasonable that Mr G be allowed  to reject the car.
distress and inconvenience
It appears that Mr G is very unhappy  with the service he has received from the dealership.  
But the dealership is a third party. I cant fairly  and reasonably hold FAS UK Ltd responsible 
for the level of service  provided by the dealership. 
However, even though  Mr G and FAS UK Ltd disagree about how many times Mr G has 
been to the dealership trying to get the repairs sorted, they do agree he has been in several 
times and this caused distress and inconvenience. 
FAS UK Ltd has offered  Mr G £200  for this. I think its fair and reasonable that he should be 
compensated for this. But given all the toing  and froing he has been  through, even if I accept 
the amount of visits FAS UK Ltd tells us about,  is the correct number rather  than Mr Gs 
figure, I think  £100 in addition  to the £200  offered is fair and reasonable. I think FAS UK Ltd, 
needs to pay Mr G £300 in total for distress  and inconvenience.
excess mileage
Ref: DRN90992514It appears the parties agree  that Mr G has done more mileage in the car than he is permitted 
to do under the Hire Purchase agreement. FAS UK Ltd tells us the charge it will make based  
on what Mr G has told us about  the current mileage is £943.56. Mr G indicates he is no 
longer using the car so it is likely that this is the final mileage charge he will pay. It is up to 
Mr G and FAS UK Ltd if they agree that this charge comes off the payment I have asked 
FAS UK Ltd to make to him.
However, since these charges are properly owed. I am going  to say that FAS UK Ltd need  
only update the information it registers on Mr Gs credit file once  these charges are paid.
damage to the car
FAS UK Ltd wants to charge Mr G for any damage  that it is entitled  to charge him for under 
his agreement. I make no finding about  this. I merely  say nothing  in this decision impacts  on 
any rights  FAS UK Ltd may have to charge him for any such damage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require FCA Automotive Services  UK Ltd to:
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing  further owed by Mr G aside from the 
excess mileage charges that Mr G has already agreed to repay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr G at a time that is mutually convenient for both 
parties.
Refund the deposit which both parties  agree is £7,500. FAS UK Ltd must pay interest 
on the £7,500 at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the date of 
payment of the deposit to the date of settlement.
Pay £300 for distress  and inconvenience,  which is made up of the £100  I have found  
it should pay plus the £200  FAS UK Ltd had offered previously but had not already 
paid according  to what it has told us.
Update the information  it sends  to the credit reference agencies about  Mr Gs credit 
file to mark the hire purchase agreement as settled and remove  any adverse 
information it may have  registered  on Mr Gs credit file about  the agreement. 
Provided FAS UK Ltd need not do this until Mr G pays it the excess mileage charges.
If FAS UK Ltd does not pay the £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience within  28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9099251