K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc caused unreasonable delays in transferring 
shares into his name which caused him to lose out financially. 
background
On 5 March 2018 Mr D contacted Barclays to arrange the transfer  of shares  in six 
companies into his Smart Investor account. He was initially told the transfer would  take 14 
days, but the final transfers werent successfully completed until 26 July 2018. During this 
time Barclays made a number of errors that contributed to the overall  time taken  to transfer 
the shares. This included:
failing  to process documents, meaning  they had to be completed again;
failing  to produce the necessary documents to enable  two of the transfers to be 
completed;
losing  forms Mr D had sent in and requiring them to be sent again; and
failing  to keep  Mr D adequately updated  on the progress of his transfers  and his 
complaints.
Mr D complained to Barclays on several  occasions  throughout this period. All of his 
complaints were upheld  and he was offered a total of £700 compensation in recognition  of 
the trouble and upset hed experienced as a result of Barclays  errors  and delays. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Barclays  offers of compensation and referred his complaint to our 
service. He felt he should be paid £127  a day for the delay in completing the transfer.  He 
also felt he should  be compensated for lost earnings while  he was focusing  on resolving the 
problems with Barclays. He thought  Barclays should  be punished for what he considered to 
be gross  negligence  on its part.  
Our investigator considered the complaint  and upheld it in part. She acknowledged that Mr D 
hadnt received  the level of service he shouldve expected. Barclays made repeated errors 
and this had caused Mr D to spend  a significant  amount  of time chasing to ensure the 
transfers were processed correctly. She felt the level of compensation already offered was 
broadly reasonable for the trouble and upset Mr D had experienced. But she recognised that 
as Barclays had been unable to confirm  exactly what had happened to Mr Ds lost 
documents, this was an additional concern to him. She recommended that it pay him an 
additional £50 compensation  for this. 
But, our investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr D had lost out financially because of the 
delays. She noted  that five of the six shares  had actually  increased in value by the time the 
transfers had been  completed. Although one share had lost value, there  was no evidence  
Mr D intended to sell his shares once the transfers  were complete. He hadnt sold any 
shares by the time he referred his complaints to our service which  was several  months after 
the transfers were  complete. So she couldnt conclude  that hed lost out on investment 
opportunities because of the delays. She also wasnt persuaded Mr D had demonstrated  
hed lost earnings as a result of the transfer  delays. 
Ref: DRN91356092Barclays accepted  the investigators recommendations and agreed to pay Mr D additional 
£50 compensation.  Mr D didnt agree and asked  for the case to be considered  by an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for largely  the same  reasons. 
I know Mr D feels  very strongly about this matter and would like our service to address  in 
more detail the errors Barclays  has made.  But Barclays has accepted  that it failed to transfer 
his shares in a reasonable timeframe, and that this caused him significant trouble and upset. 
So I dont  think it would  add anything for me to itemise where things went wrong, as this is 
known to both parties.  Instead my review  has focused on whether Barclays  has done 
enough to compensate Mr D for what has happened. 
As our investigator has explained, its not the role, or indeed within the power  of this service 
to punish businesses where things  go wrong. This is for the regulator to consider. Instead we 
expect a business to take appropriate  action to put the consumer, as far as possible, in the 
position they wouldve been  in had the errors not happened. In this case the shares  have 
now been successfully  transferred, although  far later than they should have been. So I cant  
direct Barclays to take any action in relation  to this. The only thing  left for it to do is offer 
compensation for the trouble Mr D has experienced while waiting for the transfers to be 
carried out correctly.  
Having carefully considered everything  thats happened in this case, I think  Barclays 
increased offer of £750 compensation is fair in the circumstances  and is line with what  I may 
have awarded  if no offer had been  made. We publish information about  how we consider  
awards for non-financial  loss, and an award of this sum comes within the heading  of 
substantial trouble and upset and I think thats  appropriate in this case. 
Its clear Barclays  service  fell far short  of what Mr D shouldve expected. There were  
countless administrative errors that each led to a delay in the overall process of transferring 
the shares. No doubt once Mr D had raised his concerns about the service hed received, to 
find more errors had occurred must have compounded his frustration and caused him to lose 
faith in Barclays.  I can see that to resolve  the issue Mr D had to make an unreasonable  
number of phone calls to Barclays.  This shouldnt have been necessary  and Barclays should 
have been able to resolve the matter  far sooner than it did. 
I know Mr D would like our service to award a far higher sum of compensation. Hes 
suggested he should be awarded  a daily figure  of £127. But as the investigator has 
explained when  considering compensation we consider a global award that takes  account  of 
everything thats happened. We dont calculate  compensation  on a daily basis,  and even if 
we did, I dont agree £127 a day represents  a fair or reasonable level of compensation. 
While Mr D told Barclays this is what he expected,  I dont think  that means Barclays  was 
under any obligation to pay him that sum.  
Like the investigator, Ive seen no evidence to suggest  that Mr D suffered a direct  financial 
loss as a result of the delay in transferring his shares. Theres  no persuasive evidence  that 
he intended to sell his shares, so I cant  conclude hes lost out on the share price. Equally 
Ive seen no evidence  to substantiate  that he suffered a loss of earnings because of the 
Ref: DRN91356093delays. So I wont be asking Barclays to pay him anything in addition to the compensation 
already discussed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Barclays to pay Mr D £750 compensation in recognition  of trouble  and upset he 
experienced as a result of the delay in transferring his shares. I understand Barclays has 
already paid him £250, so it should now pay him the balance of £500. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9135609