K820x#14complaint
Mr Z is unhappy  with the service provided by Paragon Bank  Plc, trading as Paragon Car 
Finance, after a car theyd supplied him was impounded by the police.
background
In June 2018, Mr Z was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Paragon. In April 2019 the car was seized and impounded by the police   the police  said it 
was being driven  by an uninsured third party. 
Paragon issued Mr Z a Notice of Default on 17 April 2019 because, by letting the third party 
drive the car uninsured,  Mr Z had breached  the terms of the agreement.  Paragon  then 
recovered the car from the police and sold it at auction. The sale proceeds were paid off the 
amount outstanding on the agreement. But, because this didnt clear  the balance  in full, 
Paragon are holding  Mr Z liable for the remainder. 
Mr Z complained that Paragon didnt let him pay off the outstanding balance  on the 
agreement once theyd  issued the default notice. And that they said he could collect the car 
from the impound, then changed their mind. He was also unhappy  that Paragon hadnt  
settled all of the outstanding amount on his agreement  when the car was sold.  But Paragon 
thought they hadnt  done  anything wrong. So Mr Z brought his complaint to us to investigate.
Our adjudicator said that whether the third party driver had permission to drive the car was a 
matter for the police,  so she said she wouldnt consider this as part of her view.  She said 
that, in circumstances like these, shed expect Paragon to act in accordance with the terms 
and conditions. And from what shed seen, they had done. So she thought Paragon had 
acted reasonably by taking  possession of the car, and by selling it. And she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr Z didnt  agree. He didnt think Paragon had treated him fairly, because theyd told him 
numerous times that itd be ok for him to collect his car from the impound  and a note was 
left on his file saying this. Hes also said that Paragon requested a copy  of his insurance  
document, and a manager accepted this. Because of this, hes asked for an ombudsman  to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Mr Z was supplied  with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement.  This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means were 
able to look into complaints about  it. 
Ref: DRN98290532As I understand things, the police seized the car because it was being  driven  by a third party 
without insurance. Mr Z has said the police  accused  him of hiring the car out, but he said this 
wasnt the case. As the adjudicator explained  in her view, this is a matter between  Mr Z and 
the police. Its not something Paragon had any influence over,  and its not my role to override 
the polices actions. Because of this, the reasons for the impounding arent something Ill be 
considering in my decision.
Ive seen a copy  of the default notice Paragon issued on 17 April 2019, which explained  that 
Mr Z had breached the following  conditions:
(4.5) You will not let anyone use the vehicle illegally. You will not let anyone impound 
the vehicle or obtain rights over the vehicle. You will keep the vehicle in your 
possession and under  your control  and will not sell, assign, sub-hire, charge, 
transfer, mortgage, lend pledge, create a lien over [or] give the vehicle to anyone.
(8.1.G) We have  reasonable grounds  for believing that our interest in the Vehicle is at 
risk.
In this letter Paragon  also explained they had the right to terminate the agreement,  and that 
Mr Z would remain  liable for any outstanding balance.
Mr Z accepts that the terms of his agreement with Paragon had been breached.  But he 
wanted to get the car back and pay off the agreement. Paragons case  notes show  the 
conversations theyd had with Mr Z about  this. And these show  they were happy for Mr Z to 
take the car back   hed provided  them with evidence that the car was insured. But the 
police wouldnt let Mr Z take the car back, and the case  notes show this was because  the 
insurance wasnt fully comprehensive.
Based on these case notes, I cant agree with Mr Z that Paragon changed their mind  about 
him taking  the car back. It was the police  who wouldnt release the car to Mr Z, not Paragon.  
And Paragon werent in a position to tell the police  what they should  do.
Because the police  refused to let Mr Z have  the car back, I also dont think  Paragon were  
unreasonable in refusing to let Mr Z pay off the agreement. If they had, Mr Z wouldve 
cleared the outstanding balance, and still not had the car. And Paragon couldnt return to car 
to him as theyd be risking  him repeating the offence  that resulted in the car being 
impounded in the first place, 
Given these circumstances, Im satisfied that Paragon taking the car back  and selling it was 
a reasonable course of action for them to take. And, once the car was sold,  Paragon paid 
the proceeds off the agreement, leaving Mr Z liable for the remaining amount. I wouldnt 
have expected them to do anything different, so Im satisfied that Paragon  didnt do anything 
wrong by doing  this. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Ref: DRN98290533my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint about Paragon Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829053