K820x#14complaint
Miss N says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss N bought the policy in 2005  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Miss N for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £650 a month towards Miss Ns mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £38.61  a month.  
At the time,  Miss N was employed as a catering  assistant. She has told us she was entitled 
to 12 months full sick pay and some  redundancy pay - but the paperwork  from the time 
records this as being six months full pay followed by six months  half-pay, which I think  is a 
more accurate reflection of Miss Ns sick pay entitlement.  Miss N told us she didnt have any 
other means  of repaying her mortgage  should she be unable to work  but the paperwork 
from the time records she had around £12,000 in savings and an income  replacement  policy  
that would  have provided around £500 a month  after a 12-month waiting period. Miss N has 
said she was in good health  at the time. 
HSBC has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 2005  and it was 
still running at the time of submitting her complaint to us. 
Miss Ns representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ns representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss N wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ns 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Miss N about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss N and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN95921192The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss N received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ns. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. 
There is much in common between the present statutory regulatory regime  and the non-
statutory provisions that preceded it (and,  indeed,  the position at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN95921193In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Miss Ns complaint. 
Ref: DRN95921194key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Miss N with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Miss N sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss N, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss N suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss N and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss N know  she had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
HSBC has provided  some  of the paperwork from the time of sale, including  the mortgage 
offer letter Miss N signed, and the personal financial review form the HSBC  adviser  used to 
record Miss Ns circumstances during  the meeting.
Looking at the advisers paperwork  first, this in my view made  it clear  that they were  
recommending Miss N take out the cover  theres nothing here which I think  would have 
given Miss N the impression she had to take it out.
And I think the mortgage offer support  this. I say this because I can see this listed  the PPI 
under the heading Optional Insurance - it also detailed the cost. And above this it said that 
only buildings insurance was a condition of the lending. So when Miss N received her 
mortgage offer letter, if this description of the PPI didnt accord with her understanding  and 
what she was told during the meeting,  I wouldve expected  her to have queried it with HSBC 
at the time.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Miss N knew  the policy  was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
Ref: DRN95921195did HSBC provide  advice?
Miss N hasnt said either way whether HSBC advised her or not. But HSBC says it did 
provide advice during this sale  and in my view the paperwork  clearly  show this was the 
case.
This means  HSBC had to advise Miss N with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Miss N. The adviser had information  about  some of Miss Ns financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application.  
A financial review document was completed  to try and establish whether Miss N had a need 
for the policy  by asking questions about  her wider circumstances. And while the paperwork 
indicates the adviser captured details about  Miss Ns sick pay and other  means, Im not 
persuaded based on what Ive seen that the adviser  went as far as they reasonably  should  
have to establish Miss Ns health  and whether she wouldve been caught  by the significant 
exclusion around existing  medical conditions  the paperwork only records Miss N as being 
in good health. But it doesnt  detail the questions that enabled the adviser to arrive at this 
conclusion. So based on the available evidence I dont think  HSBC did enough  to ensure the 
PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss N given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Miss N, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss N met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss N had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Ns ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  she 
would have been entitled to and her savings. While Miss N also had an existing 
income replacement  policy,  the waiting period for this was 12 months so it didnt 
duplicate in my view the PPI cover. Im mindful that Miss N was solely  responsible for 
the mortgage and had a financial dependent - so I think the policy would have  helped  
Miss N manage the consequences if she was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss N. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss N. There  
was nothing about Miss Ns employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
Ref: DRN95921196conditions that could affect her ability to claim. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Miss Ns 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Miss N sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  HSBC  
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss N was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through disability or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss N would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss N agreed to take out the policy; albeit these things were set out in 
some later paperwork, which Ill discuss below.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss N Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded HSBC  gave  Miss N all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ns. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ns representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss N about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ns representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
Ref: DRN95921197not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss N has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Miss N? To what extent did Miss N 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Miss N. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss N 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss N 
would have still taken  out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss N, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss N has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Miss N would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss N says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss N had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ns circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. I also think 
Miss N understood  the benefit amount of the policy  an amount sufficient to meet  her 
mortgage payments  as this was set out in the paperwork from the time  and that it was 
limited to 12 monthly payments.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss N knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear HSBC told her the exact premium at the point 
Miss N applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Miss N would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and I can see it was set out clearly  on her mortgage offer 
letter she received before the policy started. She also paid for the policy for a number of 
Ref: DRN95921198years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible she might  have  raised that with HSBC at the time or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss N would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss N thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded  for the first 12 months only - claims relating to medical  
conditions that Miss M sought advice or had treatment for in the 12 months  
immediately before the start date of the policy; and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss N pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss N from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ns circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss N was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  beneficial to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Miss N didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss N would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Miss N needed  to be unable to do her job as certified by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different, if any different to what  she would  have expected 
to make a claim. 
As I said above, Im satisfied that Miss N understood the limit to the policy  and that it would 
pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months per claim.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss N would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss N would have 
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN95921199Miss Ns representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss N would not have bought  the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss N 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss N believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss N in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Miss N compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss N thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Miss N, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2005 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ns representative says a court might take if it 
were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss N and about  the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
Ref: DRN959211910good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss N in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9592119