K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained to BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd (BlackStar) about  the pension  
transfer advice  he received  and his subsequent investment in Colonial Capital. He says the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Mr B is represented in this complaint.
background
In December 2012, Mr B applied  to open  a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). Then  in 
January 2013,  he completed an application  form to invest in Colonial Capital. During  May 
2013, he applied  to transfer  his occupational  pension benefits  to his SIPP.
The SIPP provider required that Mr B take advice  before carrying out the pension  transfer.  
Mr B agreed to take advice from BlackStar  in June 2013. 
BlackStar issued their recommendation report in August 2013. This report  said that Mr B had 
self-certified that he is a high net worth individual. It also said that he had a high risk attitude 
to investments and wanted to invest in Colonial Capital. BlackStar  recommended  that Mr B 
transfer his occupational pension benefits to his SIPP.
Mr Bs occupational pension benefits  had a transfer  value  of just over £147,000. Once  the 
benefits were moved to the SIPP, £145,000 was invested in a three year Colonial  Capital  
Bond.
Colonial Capital has since gone  into administration  and Mr B has lost out. He complained  to 
BlackStar about their advice but it didnt uphold  the complaint and so it was referred  to this 
service.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Bs complaint. His initial view was the advice was unsuitable. He 
felt that it was inappropriate to recommend transferring Mr Bs pension benefits when such a 
substantial sum would be invested  in a high risk, unregulated and illiquid  bond.  He said that 
the complaint  should be upheld.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It responded  and highlighted, amongst other  things that Mr B had 
decided to invest in Colonial  Capital before it was involved. He was relying on 
recommendations from close business associates. Hed entered  into a legally binding 
contract to purchase the bonds  before he took advice. 
The adjudicator reconsidered and said that whilst  he continued to view the advice as 
unsuitable, he had to consider whether Mr B would have gone  ahead with the investment 
anyway even if BlackStar had recommended against it. And, he decided  that, on balance he 
probably would have.
Mr Bs representative disagreed and said BlackStar  had provided unsuitable advice. If Mr B 
had to go to another adviser,  they wouldnt have arranged the pension  transfer  or 
subsequent investment.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN93662342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint.
Based on the evidence  and Mr Bs own testimony  to this service,  he was introduced  to the 
Colonial Capital investment by unregulated introducers. Mr B was a former  colleague  of the 
introducers as he had worked with them in a mortgage advice business. At the time he was 
looking to work with the same associates  again  in a new venture.
The applications to arrange the SIPP,  transfer the occupational pension benefits  and invest 
in Colonial Capital  were  all completed before any apparent involvement of BlackStar. It 
seems that the only reason the transfer didnt go ahead at that stage was because the SIPP 
provider had required that Mr B seek advice before proceeding.
If the pension  provider hadnt  required Mr B to get financial advice, I dont see any reason 
why Mr B wouldnt  have completed  the pension transfer and invested in Colonial Capital. 
Having said that, BlackStar were  chosen  as the financial advisers  and they had a 
responsibility to provide  suitable advice and advise,  in Mr Bs best interest.
I agree  with the adjudicators view that the advice given by BlackStar  was unsuitable.  Mr B 
didnt have the capacity to lose his pension benefits  and there wasnt evidence  he had other 
assets that he could rely on in retirement.  A high level of investment return  was required to 
be able to match his occupational pension benefits.  Mainstream investments werent likely to 
achieve the 13.9% and 8.92% yearly returns required to match his occupational scheme 
benefits at ages 60 and 65 respectively.
The Colonial  Capital bonds were  offering a yearly yield of 14%,  this is a substantial  return.  
Income yields are typically indicative of the underlying investment risk of a bond.  This level 
of return is substantially above what would be expected from government  or blue chip 
corporate bonds and indicates  the very high risk nature  of the investment.  Investing the vast 
majority of Mr Bs pension  in his plan wasnt appropriate.
However, the issue I need to determine in this case is whether it would have made any 
difference if BlackStar had given suitable advice and recommended  that Mr B should not 
transfer and invest  in Colonial Capital.
Im satisfied that Mr Bs associates must have had substantial influence on his actions. He 
had worked with them before and was looking to start work  with them again in a new 
business venture.  He says that he expected to earn considerably higher income  in the future  
working with them. Since  the time of the investment, and following its failure and up to the 
current time, Mr B has continued to work  with the individual who introduced him to the 
Colonial Capital investment.
Mr B also shared some of the commission from the investment; he said he received between 
£4,000 and £5,000  which he used to purchase  a car. BlackStar has also provided evidence  
to show that Mr B and his business associates were active in introducing their own 
customers to BlackStar to advise on other investments. 
Ref: DRN93662343It seems  to me that, in effect,  Mr B had a role as an unregulated introducer for investment  
plans. An email  from Mr B to BlackStar  confirms that an individual he was referring  to them  
would like to invest in a Colonial  Capital bond.
When asked whether he wouldve gone  ahead  with the investment if the SIPP  provider didnt 
ask him to seek advice,  Mr B said that he didnt know if he would have. He said it was at a 
difficult time in his life and his pension was his main  asset. He wouldnt have invested if he 
thought he wouldve lost the money. He thought BlackStar were supposed to provide advice.
But, as Ive said earlier, there doesnt  seem  to be any reason why the investment wouldnt 
have gone ahead if the SIPP provider  hadnt insisted on advice. Mr B was arranging  the 
transfer before BlackStar were involved. Mr B has continued working with the associates 
who introduced  him to Colonial  Capital. They shared  their commission  with him. At the time 
and since then, there seems to have been a working relationship with BlackStar to provide 
introductions to them. And these include introductions from Mr B.
Im satisfied, on balance, that even  if BlackStar had advised against the transfer Mr B would 
still have gone  ahead,  even if this meant that he had to find another adviser to endorse it. 
Mr Bs representative has said that BlackStar gave unsuitable advice and that Mr B has 
been left with substantial financial losses. They say it is morally wrong for BlackStar to get 
away with bad advice.  It isnt the role of this service  to fine or punish firms. In this individual  
case, whilst  BlackStar did make an error, I have to decide what  would most likely have 
happened if the error had not occurred.  I need to be satisfied that the error has caused 
Mr Bs losses. But I think he would have  gone ahead anyway and so the error did not cause 
his loss.
So in these  circumstances,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold  the 
complaint.
my final decision 
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9366234