K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained about the way Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) dealt with a 
claim they made on Mrs As motor insurance  policy. Mr A is a named driver on that policy.
All references to Zenith include its agents. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract  follows:
In December 2018 Mr A was involved in a motor  accident with another car which  he doesnt 
believe he was at fault for. He said the other car was speeding and couldnt break in time 
and ended up in a hedgerow after it scraped  past his car. 
Mr A said he took a couple of weeks to decide  whether he wanted  the car repaired  or not but 
eventually agreed  with Zeniths  engineer  that the car should be declared a total loss. Zenith 
initially offered Mr A £900 which  he wasnt happy  with. It later increased this to £1050  and 
finally to £1125. It said it was also deducting  £150 for pre-existing damage to the bumper 
which it later reduced to £120.
Mr A was still unhappy with the valuation and said when he first reported the incident Zenith 
told him his car was worth £1500.
On 30 January 2019 Zenith wrote  to Mr A and said the other  side had offered to settle the 
claim on a 50%-50% liability basis. The other  side said Mr A had come round  a blind bend 
and the third party couldnt avoid  him. Mr A didnt agree with this offer. He told Zenith to ask 
the third party  insurers  to check if the third party had a black  box installed in his car which  
would record the speed he was travelling  at. Zenith wrote  to the third party insurer who said 
there was no black box. 
Mr A was still unhappy and said he wanted £1500 for his car and was disputing the £120 
deduction. He complained  to Zenith  on 15 February  2019 and said he also wanted  to know  
how he would get 50% of his excess back (if 50%-50% was agreed). He also made  the 
following points:
His sons were  in the car with him but Zenith didnt interview them.
He wasnt happy he wasnt given a courtesy car while he was looking for a replacement  
car. 
He wanted  to be reimbursed for the cost of a car he hired for seven days which cost 
£384.43.
He said it wasnt worth  taking out fully comprehensive  cover for older cars (like his own)  
because the chance  of them being  declared a total loss is higher. And the high excess  
makes a claim less worthwhile. 
Zenith issued a final response  on 7 March 2019. It said:
It arrived at its valuation  of £1125 using recognised trade  guides.
It would  pay Mr and Mrs A £150 in compensation  because  its advisor  shouldnt  have told 
Mr A the car was worth £1500 when  he reported  the incident.
It would  deal with the third party  claim  on best  possible terms and has the discretion to 
do so under the policy. It said speeding  is hard to prove  and doesnt prove negligence 
and also that the third party didnt  have a black  box.
Ref: DRN93117202Under the policy Mr and Mrs A would  only be entitled to a courtesy car while their car 
was being repaired  and not if it was a total loss.
Mr A was still unhappy and repeated the issues hed raised  before. He complained  to us and 
to again to Zenith on the same day. He also said he was finding  it very difficult to get through  
to anyone at Zenith to discuss  the case and had to wait on the phone for long periods of 
time. He said Zenith had increased its offer to £1150  but hadnt confirmed it in writing.  He 
asked for:
£650 for the car which  is the £1150 minus the £500 excess
£250 for his excess
£382.84 for the hire car
£500 for extra travel costs and for borrowing  other cars
£500 for time spent on the phone  to Zenith
Interest at 1.6% which he calculated at £109.53
The total he was asking for was £2242.37  after deducting the £150 compensation he 
received. 
Zenith issued a further response to Mr and Mrs A and offered  them  a further £75 for call 
waiting times. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  Zenith had acted unfairly  
on unreasonably. He also thought the offers Zenith had made to Mr and Mrs A had been  
reasonable. Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Before I went ahead  with my decision I asked the investigator to clarify with Zenith  why in its 
file it said Mr and Mrs As no claims bonus (NCB) was affected as they had chosen  to protect 
it. We also asked why, despite Zenith saying in its notes it would settle  the claim with the 
third party on a 50%-50% without  prejudice basis its letter to the third party insurer  didnt 
say the words without prejudice. And we also asked whether Mr and Mrs A had guaranteed 
or replacement car cover. 
Zenith responded to say Mr and Mrs As NCB  shouldnt be reduced if they protected it but 
they would  have to get proof  of this from their broker. It also said they didnt have  
guaranteed or replacement car cover but a courtesy  car could have been provided  under the 
policy while  their car was being repaired  but this was subject to availability. It didnt respond 
to our other query.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not considering  
upholding it.
I note that Mr and Mrs A have also complained that their policy was mis-sold to them by their 
broker. As I understand  it this complaint is being  considered separately by our investigator.  
This decision is against Zenith as Mr and Mrs As insurer so I wont refer to their complaint 
against their broker here. 
Zenith is one of two insurers who underwrite this policy. Though, according to the policy 
schedule the other  insurer  insures a larger share of the policy  Zenith has confirmed  that it 
has an agreement with the other insurer  that it is responsible for complaints made in relation  
to the policy. So my decision is against  Zenith on this basis. 
Ref: DRN93117203courtesy car
The policy says that it covers loss or damage  to any courtesy car provided by Zeniths  
recommended repairers while the car is being repaired. It also says the provision of a 
courtesy car is subject  to the recommended repairers terms and conditions  and also subject 
to availability. But Mr A didnt get his car repaired so there was no repairer to provide a 
courtesy car.
I see Mr A has said that the policy says he is entitled  to a courtesy car while his is off the 
road and not specifically in for repairs. From what Ive seen there  is a replacement vehicle 
benefit under the policy but this is only under  the motor legal cover  which  is an added extra. 
Having looked  at the policy schedule  I dont think Mr and Mrs A took out motor  legal cover.  
There is also guaranteed  replacement car cover but this is again an optional added  extra  
that I dont  think Mr and Mrs A took out. From  what Ive seen  the only added extra they had 
on their policy was no claims discount  protection. In any event both the motor  legal cover 
and the guaranteed replacement car cover are provided by other insurers- not Zenith-  so 
even if Mr and Mrs A had taken them out I wouldnt  have been able to consider those 
complaints as part of this decision.
For the reasons  above, I dont think Mr and Mrs A were entitled to a courtesy car under their 
motor insurance policy  with Zenith. So I think Zenith  acted within  the terms of its policy by 
not providing them with one. For the same reasons I dont think  Zenith has to compensate  
Mr and Mrs A for the cost of a hire car or for borrowing other cars because  it had no 
obligation to provide them with an alternative solution. 
the valuation
The policy says Zenith will pay no more than the market value of a car if its declared a total 
loss. The market value is defined  as:
The cost of replacing  the car with another of the same  make, specification, model, age,
mileage and condition  as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened.
As our investigator explained we dont decide the market value of a car but we determine 
whether an insurer  acted fairly and reasonably when settling  this element of a consumers 
claim. In order to do so we rely on industry trade  guides which are based on likely sales 
prices. 
Zenith offered  Mr and Mrs A £1,125 after it deducted £120 for pre-existing  damage.  I have 
seen the engineering evidence and note that the engineer said there  was pre-existing 
damage to the bumper.  We dont normally agree for insurers to deduct the full value of the 
repair to pre-existing damage as they did in this case but would normally agree to them  
deducting 50%. However, our investigator carried  out his own investigation into the guides 
which returned values  for the car of £822  and £1,125 which  gives an average  of £973. We 
normally use four guides  but in this case two of the guides returned no results. Bearing in 
mind that Zeniths  offer was equal to the highest  valuation (even  after the deduction of the 
pre-existing damage) I think its fair.
I note that Zenith has already paid Mr and Mrs A the £625 (which is £1125  minus the £500 
excess) they had claimed for the car. I appreciate  Mr A says Zenith  agreed to pay £650  (and 
increased its valuation  to £1150) but I havent seen any evidence of that.
Ref: DRN93117204Zenith accepts that its handler told Mr and Mrs A that the car was worth  £1500 when Mr A 
reported the claim. Mr A said he accepts this wasnt an expert opinion. Zenith has paid 
Mr and Mrs A £150 for this miscommunication  and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
liability
 
Mr A didnt agree that he was 50% at fault for the accident. He said his sons  who saw the 
accident werent interviewed. He also said the other car was speeding  and was responsible  
for the accident.  
From what  Ive seen, Zenith  defended the claim at the start and didnt resolve liability with 
the third party  insurers  until after the complaint came to us- in June 2019. Zenith said as this 
was a narrow lane collision and as it was not possible to prove  that the third party was 
speeding it had no choice but to settle the claim on a 50% fault basis.  
The policy,  like most motor insurance policies, enables Zenith to take over the defence of a 
claim and settle it on what it considers the best possible terms to be. We dont consider this 
to be unfair  as long as insurers  apply this term fairly and reasonably. 
Based on the evidence  Zenith had at the time, including the engineer  reports, the other 
sides and Mr As version of events  I dont think settling the claim on a 50%-50% basis was 
unreasonable. I dont think it was necessary  for Zenith to interview  Mr As sons  as it already 
had his version of events  which was presumably the same as his sons. Also it was open to 
Mr A to provide his sons  versions if he wished. 
But I note that Zenith  didnt agree  this settlement on a without prejudice basis- despite its 
internal notes suggesting this shouldve been the case. This arguably  deprives Mr and Mrs A 
of the opportunity to go after the third party for more than 50% of their damage. But I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs A wouldve achieved a better  result  than 50% so I dont 
think Zeniths actions have put them  in a worse position. If they do get further  evidence  
which they feel shows they wouldve achieved a better result than 50%-50% they are free to 
take it back to Zenith and if theyre not happy with its response,  to us.
Mr and Mrs A had asked for 50% of their excess and I understand that this was recovered  by 
Zenith from the other side and paid to them. I should  point  out that as the excess  is an 
uninsured loss, this isnt something Zenith had to pay back to Mr and Mrs A. So I think it 
acted fairly  and reasonably in the circumstances. 
general concerns
Mr and Mrs A said they had to spend sometimes over an hour on the phone  waiting to speak 
to someone from Zenith. They said they should  be compensated with £500 for this. Zenith 
has offered them £75 and I think this is reasonable and in line with what  I wouldve awarded  
for this level of distress  and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs A had said that this claim was affecting  their future  premiums.  As I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for Zenith  to deal with this as a 50%-50% liability split I dont think there is 
anything further  it has to do on this point. But, and I appreciate this isnt something they 
complained to us specifically  about,  I note Mr and Mrs A had protected their no claims 
discount (NCB). I saw a note that Zenith had disallowed this but I think this is something  it 
needs to re-evaluate-  if Mr and Mrs A fulfil the criteria  under  their policy  to preserve their 
NCB (i.e. no claims  within  three years etc.). Zenith  said this is something Mr and Mrs A will 
Ref: DRN93117205have to obtain evidence in support from their broker but this is already on their policy 
schedule which was provided to us by Zenith.  So I think  Zenith has enough  evidence  to 
show the NCB was protected  so I expect it to look into this again.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not considering upholding this complaint.
developments and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A acknowledged my provisional  decision but said they had no further comments 
to add. 
Zenith responded to say that Mr and Mrs A had nine years  NCB and due to the fact that they 
had protected  it they did not lose any years  NCB.  It said if they had not protected their NCB,  
it wouldve  been reduced to three years. 
I havent changed any of the findings I made in my provisional decision as neither  party  has 
raised anything  that would make  me do so. I note Zeniths comments in relation to 
Mr and Mrs As NCB. As I said in my provisional  decision  this didnt form part of their original 
complaint, so I wont consider this further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311720