K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited has charged  them  trail 
commission since 2015 despite not providing  any ongoing advice. Crucially, it did not tell 
them this commission would continue until they cancelled it despite  corresponding with them 
at length about its failure to provide free, ongoing  advice after their original advisor died. 
background
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs P complained that they had just discovered   the previous month  
 that Lighthouse was still receiving ongoing  commission. They  said they had complained  in 
2014/15 about being charged £500 for new advice, contrary to their original  advisors 
promise that this would be free (part of the commission charges)  and Lighthouse  had made 
no mention of the fact that trail commission would continue. Instead it had said commission 
had been stopped at the end of 2014.
In its Final Response Letter  (FRL)  Lighthouse  said Mr and Mrs P had complained about the 
same issue  in 2015 and it had dealt  with this in a letter dated 3 March 2015, along  with the 
subsequent correspondence. It had not offered to refund the trail commission, something Mr 
and Mrs P were fully aware of according  to its response of 11 April 2015.  They  did, however, 
accept its offer of a specific  refund in full and final settlement of their complaint about this 
issue. As Mr and Mrs P had not referred  their complaint to this service  within  six months of 
its FRL,  their current complaint was not within our jurisdiction.
An adjudicator at this service  felt Mr and Mrs Ps current  complaint  was slightly different to 
their 2015  one, and therefore we could consider it. She felt their original complaint had 
concerned the ongoing  reviews allegedly promised by their original  advisor, whereas their 
new complaint was about ongoing commission since their 2015  complaint had been 
resolved.
She did not, however, feel their complaint should be upheld as she thought they ought  
reasonably to have  realised that commission would continue to be paid to Lighthouse  until 
they took steps to stop it.
Lighthouse did not agree this complaint was different  from the 2015 one, and said:
In their correspondence throughout 2014 and 2015 it was clear that Mr and Mrs P 
were aware that Lighthouse were receiving  trail commission without any requirement  
to provide ongoing advice, and that they were unhappy with this
Repeated references to trail commission demonstrated that they fully understood 
the meaning of this term, probably because a knowledgeable friend ( a financial 
advisor) was advising them
Their letter of 11 April 2015 confirmed that they knew ongoing trail commission  was 
still being paid,  and that this did not guarantee ongoing advice
They would have  received regular statements from the two providers detailing  the 
trail payments  made to it. They  were  therefore  aware of this and did not take action 
to stop them
Mr and Mrs P made the following points  about the jurisdiction  and merits issues:
Ref: DRN90139592In an email dated 15 April 2015  a Lighthouse representative said,  in effect,  that 
commission had stopped at the end of December  2014.  They  had no reason to check  
whether this was true
Lighthouses  letter of 13 June 2015 said they would have nothing more  to pay; so 
they assumed  that the resolution  meant their contract with Lighthouse was at an end 
and it would not receive any more money from their investments
It knew they did not want it to receive any more commission,  so why did it not spell 
out to them  that it was still receiving  this money? It only spelt this out on 19 July 
2018. Why didnt  it state this in clear, unequivocal terms back  in 2015?
It should never have  taken commission  after their advisor died and it provided no 
more advice  or after their 2015 complaint was finally resolved
They would never have waited years to cancel this commission  if aware that 
Lighthouse had not done this
It should have  procedures in place to cancel commission  on the death of an advisor
my findings
Ive firstly  considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this is a 
complaint we can consider.
Ive considered at length Lighthouses  recent comments and feel there is some merit in its 
argument that this new complaint was part of the earlier 2015 one. But, on balance, I agree 
with the adjudicators view that there  are some distinct differences  between them.
The 2015  complaint centred on Mr and Mrs Ps belief that the original advisor had 
guaranteed them ongoing reviews in return for a mixture of upfront and trail commission.  
They were  therefore  unhappy that they were  being charged £500 for a new advisors  
assessment and recommendations.
In my view, Lighthouse  made very clear that the commission had never guaranteed regular 
reviews or ongoing advice   and it did not accept their original advisor would  have promised 
this.
Therefore, if Mr and Mrs P did not accept this verdict  they needed to bring a complaint about  
this issue to this service within six months of the date of Lighthouses 2015 FRL. As they did 
not, this aspect of their current complaint  is not within our jurisdiction. So I cannot  consider 
whether they were  promised ongoing advice,  whether Lighthouse ought to have  provided  it 
or whether they should be entitled to a refund for lack of ongoing advice.  These were all 
issues fully explored  in 2015. 
I also cannot consider  their complaint  that Lighthouse should have either cancelled the trail 
commission after their original advisor died or explicitly told them that trail commission  would 
continue at that point. Both of these issues were  aired in 2015,  so again Mr and Mrs P 
needed to refer any complaint about  these issues  within  six months of Lighthouses  
response in 2015.
However, Mr and Mrs P also complain  in their 2018 letter   that Lighthouse  misled them  
into thinking that trail commission had been  stopped at the end of 2014  and - if this was not 
the case - it should have  made crystal clear that it would be continuing  to receive/accept trail 
commission until they instructed the investment providers  to stop this.
I am satisfied this is a new complaint point and, as such, something  we can consider.
Ref: DRN90139593I have therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint point.
It seems  clear  from Mr and Mrs Ps evidence that they assumed trail commission would end 
after the resolution of their 2015  complaint and that this is why they did not contact the two 
providers to ensure  this would happen.  
However, in order to uphold their complaint,  I would  need firstly to conclude  that Lighthouse 
clearly did something wrong i.e. that it was primarily  at fault for Mr and Mrs Ps assumption 
that trail commission hadnt  been cancelled. And, secondly, that Mr and Mrs P have suffered 
financial as a result of Lighthouses error.
As Ive said earlier  I am satisfied Mr and Mrs P ought to have  realised Lighthouse  was 
receiving ongoing  trail commission  after their advisor died and that it maintained that it did 
not need to provide advice in order to receive  this. 
But I do believe that its letter of 15 April 2015  was misleading. While it did not explicitly state 
that commission had definitely stopped at the end of 2014,  this was the clear implication and 
I think it was reasonable  for Mr and Mrs P to have drawn such  a conclusion.  
I asked Lighthouse for its explanation of this misleading email  and whether it sent any further 
clarification. It completely  ignored my first point, simply saying it had no further information.
But I have, however, also taken into account  Mr and Mrs Ps email response  in which  they 
state they had been in communication with the two providers  to fully understand the 
situation with commission charges and were now aware Lighthouse had been receiving trail 
commissions. This suggests they may have been aware of the current position  despite the 
end of 2014 reference.
A subsequent Lighthouse email referring  to nothing more to pay clearly related to the issue  
of the disputed cost of the recent advice and the proposed resolution of this issue. So I dont 
believe it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to have assumed  from this email alone  - that 
Lighthouse would cancel trail commission once the current dispute was resolved.  Overall, I 
think Mr and Mrs P may have been misled by Lighthouse into thinking trail commission had 
now stopped but I dont  think  the evidence is sufficient to say that Lighthouse definitely 
misled them.
Also, in order to uphold  this complaint Id need  to conclude that Mr and Mrs P clearly 
suffered a financial loss and I am not satisfied that this has been the case. When an advisor, 
in this case Lighthouse, recommended an investment (prior to certain changes) the provider 
offered the advisor, as an incentive,  to pay it trail commission out of its own overall charges 
which were set out in the products terms and conditions  and for the period the investment  
was maintained. 
If, instead, a customer bought this investment without advice the product would still attract  
the same  charges  even though no trail commission was being paid out of them.
Similarly, if a customer instructed the provider to stop paying trail commission the provider 
would simply retain this money,  neither reinvesting this sum nor refunding  it.
Ref: DRN90139594So if Lighthouse had made  Mr and Mrs P fully aware  it would continue to receive trail 
commission back in 2015 until they instructed the provider to stop it and they had done  so, 
they would  not have  benefitted financially. The two providers would have continued  to levy 
the same  charges, as set out in the original terms and conditions  of the products literature. 
my decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9013959