K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about five instalment loans he took with Gain  Credit  LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream). He says the loans  were unaffordable. 
background
Lending Stream provided Mr A with five instalment loans between  January and July 2013. 
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream  hadnt done anything  wrong  when providing  the first 
four loans to Mr A. But he also thought  that Lending  Stream shouldnt have provided loan 5 
to Mr A. So, he partially upheld Mr As complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr A disagreed.  He thought  the 
amount of redress he was being offered didnt resolve his complaint given the amount of 
loans hed had with Lending Stream and the amount he paid in interest and charges.  As    
Mr A didnt agree with our adjudicator, the case was passed for an ombudsmans  decision. 
As both parties already  agree Mr A shouldnt have been given loan 5, this decision is only 
looking at whether Mr A should have been  provided with loans 1 to 4.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think that what Lending Stream  has already 
agreed to do put things  right for Mr A is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. So, I dont  think Lending Stream has treated Mr A unfairly or that it should pay him any 
more compensation.  Ill explain  why.
Mr A was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr A before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream says it relied on what Mr A said about having a monthly  disposable income 
which was enough  to comfortably make the repayments to loans 1 to 4. And based  on all of 
this it thought it was reasonable  to provide  these  loans.  On the other  hand,  Mr A says his 
Ref: DRN98783152loan history demonstrated that he was in financial difficulty  and the cost of repaying the 
loans meant  he had to keep borrowing  to meet his monthly costs.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr A and Lending Stream  have  said.  
Its important to note that when Mr A applied for his first four loans, he had no previous 
borrowing history with Lending Stream. And I cant see anything to suggest that Lending  
Stream had reason to question the information  Mr A had provided. Ive also seen what Mr A 
has said about the effect making the payments  to these  loans  had on his finances. But Mr A 
was provided with instalment loans where  he was required to make payments over a few 
months. He wasnt required to settle  the loans in full when he next got paid in the way that 
he might  have had to if hed had a payday  loan. 
Taking all this together, I dont think that the pattern of lending had become demonstrably 
unsustainable or harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts spoke for 
themselves by the time of loan 4. In my view, there might  have  been  some warning signs, 
but I think that its only by the time of loan 5 that Lending Stream  ought  fairly and reasonably  
to have realised that Mr A wasnt managing  his money and was likely to be struggling 
financially. 
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, Im not upholding the complaint 
about loans 1 to 4. And it follows that Im satisfied that what Lending Stream  has already 
agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loan 5) is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think what Gain Credit LLC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9878315