K821x#15Complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr P to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Mr Ps complaint is made, on his behalf,  by his representative. 
Background
Mr P was put in touch  with AFFS in the Autumn of 2013 to talk about his pension  
arrangements. An adviser  from AFFS carried out a review of his circumstances.  AFFS 
advised Mr P to transfer his existing pension plan into a SIPP.  This was so he could then 
invest in store pods,  an unregulated investment. 
I understand the transfer value of Mr Ps existing pension was just over £33,300. It was this 
amount that was transferred to the SIPP in November 2013. Around  £21,000  of this was 
invested in store pods the same  month. In April 2014 just under £2,500 was invested in a 
Nucleus portfolio. But it seems the store pods investment is now illiquid.  Mr P is worried  hes 
lost the value of his investment. 
So in August 2016 he complained, via his representative, to AFFS about  the advice hed 
received. In brief, Mr P said:  the advice was unsuitable; AFFS hadnt followed the relevant 
rules and regulations;  the fact find didnt accurately establish Mr Ps financial  position or 
required retirement income; and the SIPP charges were higher than he had been  paying. 
Mr P wants  compensation for the money he says hes lost. 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said it said it had warned Mr P about the risks 
involved with this investment but he still chose to go ahead with it. This meant AFFS wasnt 
to blame for any loss Mr P might have  suffered. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with this response. So he brought  the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said AFFSs  financial planning report was conflicted. The adjudicator  also said 
AFFS had failed to take reasonable steps  to ensure its advice was suitable.  Mr P couldnt  
afford to lose his money. So recommending  a SIPP to let him invest  in a high risk investment 
such as store pods  was unsuitable. The adjudicator then set out how he thought  AFFS 
needed to put things  right. 
Neither AFFS nor its representative responded to the adjudicators  view.  So this case  has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 17 May 2019. In it, I explained  Id considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  to uphold this complaint. But I 
thought Mr P should be compensated in a slightly different way to that set out by our 
adjudicator. Ive detailed that below. I also went on to explain why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  
Ref: DRN97003202I said both AFFS  and Mr P, via their various  representatives, had made numerous points to 
support their respective positions. I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far 
less detail and in my own words. I said I wasnt going to respond to every  single point made  
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy was intended by this. Instead, Id focussed on 
what I thought  was the key issue here:  was AFFSs advice to Mr P to transfer  his existing 
pension to a SIPP suitable? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If there was something  I hadnt mentioned, it wasnt  because Id ignored it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I then dealt with the issue  of our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative for 
AFFS argued that the store  pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a 
designated investment. This meant the advice  to invest in store pods  wasnt an activity  
covered by our service. 
I explained that wasnt the activity  Im looking at. Im looking at the advice to Mr P to open a 
SIPP. That is a regulated activity. It didnt matter  whether or not the store pods investment 
was a specified or designated investment.
I went on to say the rules  that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. 
The advice given  to Mr P needed  to take into account the relevant rules. This was 
irrespective of whether  or not the store pods investment was a regulated product. The 
regulations required  the advice given  to Mr P to be suitable. To do that , AFFS had to get 
enough information about his circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr P. This was signed by him in September  2013. This 
recorded some of his personal circumstances. But not a lot of detail was included.  For 
instance, it didnt  include Mr Ps outgoings, or if he had any assets, savings  or other  
investments other than his existing pension plan.  Mr P stated that he had a mortgage  on his 
property. But no details  were recorded  about  the amount of the mortgage, the value  of the 
property or whether it was jointly owned.  
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fifth box speculative was ticked.  This attitude  to 
risk was explained as: 
You are willing to obtain considerable exposure to individual equities, or highly specialised 
investments, in return for the potential to receive  significant returns.  In doing so, you 
understand that you risk losing the invested capital.
Underneath this was a hand  written  note:
I realise I have to be speculative with my assets  in order to receive high rewards which Im 
happy to do.
The following  was also ticked:
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
Ref: DRN97003203This was also followed  by another handwritten note:
I have no investment  understanding but I like the idea of fixed  returns being offered by 
commercial property purchase.
There was no detail  on how Mr Ps attitude  to risk was assessed. The available  evidence  
pointed to him having very limited investment knowledge, if any at all. Mr P certainly  didnt 
seem to have invested in high risk speculative products  before. Other than his existing 
pension, there was no indication he had any other investments whatsoever. 
Mr Ps attitude to risk was further  contradicted by another section in the fact find. This 
recorded that Mr Ps pension benefits  were a significant proportion  of his financial wealth 
and he didnt want to take unnecessary risks. So I wasnt  satisfied his attitude to risk was 
speculative. 
But I was satisfied that given Mr Ps lack of investment experience, he was relying  on AFFS 
to give him suitable  advice. Whatever his actual  attitude to risk was, it was also important for 
AFFS to look at Mr Ps capacity to actually  take that risk. I could see from the fact find that 
Mr Ps annual  income was around  £15,000.  Hed also been  made  redundant several times 
over the previous few years. Given his modest  income and apparent lack of any other 
savings, I thought Mr Ps capacity for investment to go down, or be lost completely, was low. 
In a section which asked if Mr P was intending to invest in an unregulated or alternative 
investment, the answer Store First was given. This section went on to say that Mr P saw 
commercial property purchase as a more solid investment than traditional stocks  and 
shares. Given his lack of investment experience, it wasnt  clear to me how Mr P arrived at 
that position. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  I assumed this was provided to Mr P after the 
fact find was completed. The copy  Id seen wasnt dated. It said Mr P especially liked the 
control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active role in choosing  what 
he deemed were suitable investments rather than the traditional funds in his existing plan. 
The report  went on to say that Mr P wasnt happy with the performance and growth of his 
current pension plan.  This was backed  up by part of the fact find which stated  his existing 
pension wasnt getting any real growth.  But this was at odds with another  section where 
Mr P was asked how happy he was with the performance of his existing plan. On a scale  of 
one to five, with one being  not at all happy,  and five being very happy,  a neutral answer of 
three was recorded.  This section indicated that Mr P had no strong  feeling  either  way about 
how his existing plan was doing.  Given these  contradictions, I wasnt convinced he was 
unhappy with the performance of his existing plan.  
The financial  planning  report stated Mr P had an adventurous attitude to risk. But again, this 
was contradicted by the fact find which, as Id already said,  gave his attitude to risk as 
speculative. 
The investment strategy section stated he sought advice from AFFS about the intention of 
investing in commercial property, storage pods in particular. It said Mr P hadnt  sought 
advice about the suitability of this investment and had stated he was an experienced 
investor. But this was contradicted the reports opening summary. This stated Mr P had a 
limited knowledge  of investments. In any event, the report then went  on to consider the 
proposed store pod investment. 
Ref: DRN97003204The report  said AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  
some of the risks involved. This included investing  in a single undertaking or having one 
investment as a large part of Mr Ps pension assets  bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Ps fund shouldnt be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. I could  see that some  five months after the 
transfer took place,  AFFS did recommend that Mr P should make an additional  investment in 
a Nucleus portfolio.  This was for just under £2,500. 
While dealing with this complaint, I was very aware  that the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Mr P. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision  of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating. 
I was satisfied it wasnt possible for AFFS to advise  Mr P on the suitability of the SIPP 
without also considering how he planned to invest. It was very clear  to me that AFFS knew  
all along that Mr P intended  to invest in store pods. With this in mind, I didnt think  it was 
suitable to advise Mr P to transfer his existing  pension into a SIPP to allow  him to make this 
investment. 
AFFS said it did set out some risks of investing in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of
unnoccupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees,  service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
Ref: DRN97003205nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
 The investment comes with a buy back guarantee  which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
As Id said above,  the report went on to say: I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I didnt think this went far enough. There  was no warning to Mr P that 
all of his investment was potentially  at risk, even though  the fact find indicated this was 
important to him and he didnt want  to take unnecessary risks. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I thought  it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  
with Mr Ps low capacity  for loss. The available evidence didnt show  me that Mr P was fully 
aware of the risks involved in investing  in store  pods. I was satisfied the investment wasnt 
suitable for him  and thats  what AFFS should  have told him. 
But as well as the investment being  unsuitable,  I also didnt think transferring Mr Ps existing 
pension into the SIPP was suitable. On the fact find, Mr P was asked how happy he was with 
the level of charges on his current pension plan. On a scale of one to five, with one being not 
at all, and five being very, an answer  of two was given. 
But the annual  charge  for the SIPP was 1% (up to a maximum of £500) compared  to the 
0.25% annual charge for Mr Ps existing  plan. The annual SIPP charges were on top of the 
initial £1,200  paid to AFFS and the £1,000.82 paid to the adviser. So it seems  that if Mr P 
was unhappy  with his plan charges, transferring to the SIPP would only increase what  he 
needed to pay. 
Mr P told our adjudicator  that once he became aware he could take a tax free lump sum 
from his pension pot, he thought this would be useful. At the time, he needed a new vehicle  
for work and didnt  have any other  way of paying  for it. 
I was satisfied that given a realistic assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk as balanced,  or 
medium, a pension plan that allowed him to access his tax free lump  sum would have been 
suitable for his needs. I thought the extra charges normally associated with a SIPP  werent 
justified. I thought suitable advice  should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice 
had been given, I didnt see any reason why Mr P would have transferred to the SIPP and 
made that investment. 
fair compensation
I said my aim is to put Mr P into the position he would probably  now be in if he had been  
given suitable  advice. I thought Mr P would have invested differently. It wasnt  possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but I was satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Ps circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN97003206what should  AFFS do?
 
To compensate Mr P fairly,  AFFS  must  do the following:
It must compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark  shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, theres a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable. 
If theres a loss, AFFS should  pay into Mr Ps pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if 
it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
I think its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Ps pension  plan. If this 
is the case, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  I think Mr P is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr P would have  been  able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
It is very likely that Mr P will have to maintain the SIPP for a period of time as the store  pods 
cant be sold, which will prevent the SIPP from being  closed. If the firm is unable to buy the 
store pods from the SIPP provider, they should  pay Mr P five years  worth of SIPP fees to 
compensate him for these  costs.  
AFFS should pay Mr P £300 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.  
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple  
format. 
AFFS should add interest  as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr P how much has been  taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr P a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
isnt paid 
Ref: DRN97003207within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it couldnt be readily  sold on the open market)  as in this case.  
So, the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. AFFS 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above. 
AFFS may require that Mr P provides an undertaking to pay AFFS any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. AFFS will need 
to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there are a large  number  of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because: 
Mr P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Ps 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
I then gave all parties  two weeks to raise  any further  points if they wished to do so. Mr Ps 
representative confirmed  it didnt have anything else to add. No response at all was received 
from the representative for AFFS, or AFFS itself.  
Ref: DRN97003208my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as no additional 
points have been raised, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings  and 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr P as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9700320