K820x#14complaint
The late Mrs Rs representatives have complained about the advice provided by Savvy 
Financial Planning (Savvy)  to take out an Immediate Care Annuity, claiming that it didnt 
meet her needs.  Mrs Rs representatives say that they were  misled by Savvy to believe that 
the local authority  would be more  favourable with funding  if Mrs R took out an annuity to 
(partially) pay for her care fees.  It is submitted that Mrs R could have stayed  longer  at her 
chosen care home if she had retained her capital rather  than buy the annuity. 
The Moneytree Corporation Limited takes  responsibility for the complaint about Savvy. 
background
Mrs R moved  in to her chosen  care home in 2015.  Mrs R was aged  80. The annual cost of 
the care home was about £45,000. Mrs R wanted to retain some money for personal  needs 
of about £4,000 a year
The care home referred Mrs R to Savvy for advice regarding how best to meet  the care 
home charges.
Savvy conducted a fact find with Mrs R in April 2015. At this time, Mrs Rs income  was:
State  Pension:  about £8,500
Other pension: about £1,500
Disability Living Allowance:  about £5,300
Total: about £15,300
In addition, Mrs R had cash assets  totalling about £200,000.
Savvy obtained quotations from providers of immediate care annuities based on Mrs Rs 
request to spend  £140,000 on an annuity that increased in line with the retail price  index with 
no added  protection.  To purchase an annuity  to meet  the full cost of the care home (when 
combined with Mrs Rs income) was said to be about £240,000.
To provide the amount of additional income needed  to fund the care home, Savvy
recommended that Mrs R use part of her capital to purchase an immediate care annuity. 
This would provide a regular tax free income to the registered care provider for life. Savvy 
also recommended  that this be protected against  the effects of inflation.
The cost of purchasing the annuity was about  £146,000, and this provided an income  of 
about £19,000 a year. Mrs R was also advised she should utilise  the remaining capital, 
which was just over £50,000,  to meet  the income  shortfall. This should have funded  her 
chosen care home costs  for a little less than five years.
Mrs R received the first payment from her annuity in 2015.
In July 2017 Mrs Rs capital fell below the local authority capital threshold of £23,500.
At this point the care home fees were about  £950 per week  and were being met as
follows:
Annuity payment: about £360  a week
Pensions and DLA:  about £340 a week
Ref: DRN98092992From  capital:  about £250 a week
The local authority established the best value home  at a cost of about  £640 per week. This 
meant that Mrs R would have to pay about £550 per week  from her pensions  and annuity, 
with the local authority  paying the remainder.
Once Mrs Rs capital  fell below the threshold,  in order to remain at her chosen care home,  
the local authority  said they would top up her payments to meet  about £640  per week (their  
best value home cost), meaning  a family  member  would  have  to meet  the difference  of about 
£310 per week. This wasnt done and Mrs R moved  to lower cost care home.
Mrs Rs representatives complained to Savvy in 2018. They  claim that Savvy  told them  that 
when her capital  reached the local authority threshold, that because she had bought  the 
annuity, the local authority would be more favourable with the provision of funding. Mrs Rs 
representatives have  complained that if she didnt have the annuity, the local authority would 
still fund the £640 per week  so there  is no advantage  to her having it. As a result of the 
advice, she needed  to move to another lower cost home earlier than if shed not purchased 
the annuity. 
Savvy did not uphold  the complaint. It thought the advice it had provided was suitable. It said 
that its advice would have allowed Mrs R to remain in her chosen care home for about four 
years. It said that after this period  Mrs R would have  been in the same situation, as the local 
authority wouldnt  have provided enough money  for her to stay in her care home. It said that 
annuities were suitable for older individuals who had a requirement for guaranteed income 
and the annuity taken  out by Mrs R provided  a tax efficient increasing  income  for life. The 
alternative would have been  to invest the money  but that would have exposed her to 
investment risk. It said there would always be a point when Mrs R would have insufficient 
funds to pay for her chosen care home fees.  
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by one of our adjudicators. She 
was of the opinion the complaint  should not be upheld.  In summary she said that:
The immediate care annuity provided  a degree of certainty, paying a tax free income 
to a registered care home, starting  immediately and continuing  for life.
The income would be paid directly to Mrs R for life if she ever ceased  living  in a care
            home.
The income was protected against  the effects of inflation as it was designed to 
increase in line with the retail price index  (RPI).
The current local authority threshold income  levels were subject to change,  whereas 
the annuity provided an income for life thereby providing some  certainty  should  there  
be a future  reduction  in the local authority assistance that was available. 
Mrs Rs representatives did not agree.  In summary,  they made the following  submissions:
Savvy never confirmed, as it ought to have, that when  Mrs Rs capital reached the 
threshold of £23,500 that the local authority would only fund the best value care 
home and not the one Mrs R already lived in.
Ref: DRN98092993There was no way that Mrs R could live anywhere other than a care home  because  
of her deteriorating health.
Savvy did not seem  to understand or have much clarity around how the figures
stacked up to fund the care home  fees.
The adjudicator sent a second letter addressing the above points, also noting that no further  
evidence had been forwarded to this service evidencing that they or Mrs R had been misled 
by Savvy.
Although the adjudicator spoke with Mrs Rs representative on 9 August  2018, no agreement  
was reached and Mrs Rs representative requested that an ombudsman review  the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a fact find completed for Mrs R in April 2015. This records  that she was seeking 
advice so that she could maximise her time at her chosen care provider.  It also recorded her 
realisable assets  which  amounted to about £200,000. It was set out that she had very little 
experience of investments and had a Realistic attitude to investment risk. This was 
described as:
You want to benefit from the long term potential  offered by investing in equities, realising 
that values may fluctuate, but want a level of security by having  a stake in cash and fixed 
interest investments.
Most of the answers used to assess  that risk grading suggested  Mrs R only wished to take a 
low level or risk and that she valued security over taking risks.  
In June 2015 Savvy sent a report to Mrs Rs representatives setting out its 
recommendations. It was set out that:
Summary of Current Position & Objectives
(Mrs R) you are aged 80 and due to your immobility you have entered  a residential
home so that you have  the assistance you need. You have income  from pensions  of
approximately (£10,000)  and receive  Disability Living Allowance which totals  (about £5,300)
therefore this provides  (about £15,300) per annum  You would like to retain around £4,000  
for your personal needs. The cost of (care  provider)  is (about £41,000) so you need to find
the most  appropriate  way of providing  the additional £30,000 to cover  the cost of your
care etc.
It was then set out that Mrs R had about £200,000 in realisable  assets,  and:
I have undertaken an analysis of your needs and requirements and have made a
recommendation on the basis of the information you have provided. You have
specifically requested that I focus my advice  on the following;
The need for funding for care to start immediately
Ref: DRN98092994You have access to a lump sum to provide  an income for your Care Fees
You want the certainty of payments for life
It was discussed  that Mrs Rs capacity for loss was low.
There then followed a recommendation:
Recommendations
In order to provide  this amount of additional income,  I recommend that you invest a
lump sum into an Immediate Care Annuity
This is an annuity which will pay a regular, tax-free Income  to the registered care
provider, in this instance (care provider), starting  immediately  and continuing for the
rest of your life. Payments are guaranteed and do not depend on investment
performance
If, for whatever reason,  you left the care home  the income will be paid directly to you
rather than to the care provider, but it would lose its tax-free status.  However, it can
be converted back to being tax-free should you require  care again in the future.
It was also set out that the annuity  income  would be linked to RPI so that it would increase 
over time. 
It was then set out that:
1. Having  dealt with the applications for the different providers that offer this plan,
after full underwriting  I can confirm  that the best offer for provision of £30,000
per annum  with RPI escalation will cost (about 234,000).This figure is based on a plan
that offers the basic 6 month protection only. Obviously this is more capital than
you have available  even  by pooling all your investment and cash  holdings  but it
at least gives a starting point.
Although it is not an exact science it is fair to say that by using the above figures we
can get a good idea of what  lesser amounts of money will purchase so I would like to
give you a couple  of scenarios:
2. If you paid (about £175,000) into an Immediate  care annuity it is likely to provide income
of approximately  £22,500. This would leave a shortfall of £7,500 per year and lump
sum of capital of (about  £23,500). The remaining capital would cover the top up required
for around  3 years.
3 If you paid (about £146,500) into an immediate  care annuity it is likely to provide income
of approximately  £18,750 This would leave a shortfall of £11,250 per year and lump
sum of capital of (about  £52,800). The remaining capital would cover the top up required
for almost 5 years.
My one concern  with scenario  1 is that the remaining capital is very close  to the Capital
Threshold that the Local  Authority use before stepping  in with assistance  towards
Care Home  costs, within 1 year of taking out an immediate  care annuity you will be
asking them to assist,  albeit at a lower  level due to the higher income  being  received.
At least  with scenario  2 the Local Authority would be able to see that you had
Ref: DRN98092995considered the timescale before having  to ask for assistance towards  the costs. So
although I do not believe that there could be to case to answer for deliberate
deprivation in either scenario, scenario 2 probably  lends itself towards  fewer  questions
being asked
In the recommendation there  followed an explanation as to how a care annuity  operated,  
including that it was not guaranteed to cover the cost of care,  that any extra  cost would need  
to be met by other sources, that it had no cash value at any time and that it could not be 
cancelled.
I have noted that Mrs Rs representatives  have  said that Savvy said the local authority would 
look on the position more favourably  should Mrs R take out the annuity. But I have  to also 
take into account that Savvy has said it didnt  say that, and I have not seen evidence  that 
would support that it said that the local authority  would treat the position  more favourably. So 
I cannot uphold  the complaint on that basis. Having said that, it is possible that a 
misunderstanding may have occurred in this respect. 
Given what is set out in the recommendation (as above),  it is possible  that there may have 
been a misunderstanding about the position of the local authority should an annuity be taken 
out. What was being discussed in the above  scenario  was deprivation  of capital or assets   
how a local authority might view the situation if capital is used for other purposes,  prior to 
care provision being sought.  It is sometimes the case that a local authority might view this as 
an intentional action  to reduce capital so as to trigger local authority support, where 
otherwise some of the costs could be met by the individual. This is not the same as the local 
authority lending more support for care costs because the individual has taken steps to pay 
for those  care costs   which is what it seems Mrs Rs representatives have said they were 
told. But in any event, my view remains that there is insufficient evidence  to say that Mrs Rs 
representatives were  told that that the local authority may lend more assistance if Mrs R took 
out the annuity. 
Mrs Rs representatives have said that there  was little point in taking out the annuity given 
the approach  and funding  to be supplied by the local authority. Be that as it may, the likely 
alternative, which Savvy has mentioned, would have been  to invest the money and then use 
that to pay for the care home fees.  My understanding of the situation with the local authority 
funding is, as alluded  to by Mrs Rs representatives,  that it will not provide funding until 
capital is reduced  to a certain level  about  £23,500.  
So, Mrs R would have been dependent  on her own resources until her capital fell to that 
level. When Mrs R approached Savvy the care fees for her chosen care provider were noted  
to be about £860 a week  or about £45,000 a year.  It would be likely that this would 
increase  and I note that it is stated that the fees have risen to over £950 a week.
When the advice  was given Mrs R was receiving about £10,000  a year from her pensions.  
She was also receiving about  £6,000  a year disability allowance. So her shortfall was about  
£29,000 a year (not including the £4,000  a year Mrs R required for discretionary spending). It 
is said she had capital  of about £200,000. Assuming for the moment no growth on that 
capital (but also no increases in care fees), that capital would be exhausted after about 
seven years. More  accurately, her capital would have fallen to £23,500 (the point at which  
the local authority  would provide support)  after about six years. 
Savvys advice was given on the basis  that the remaining capital of about £50-£60,000 
would support the balance needed to fund the care fees (although that would be reduced by 
Ref: DRN98092996the £4,000 a year Mrs R required  for discretionary spending). She had a shortfall,  after the 
annuity income, of about £11,000.  So, discounting  the discretionary spending, this would be 
exhausted after about 5 years. 
I would note at this point that it is not clear  why Mrs Rs capital fell to about £23,500 only 
after about 2 years from the point of advice. I have  based  my findings  on the basis of the 
original advice and the understanding at the time the advice was given.  
It would appear inevitable, unless other funding was provided by private means, that Mrs R 
would be in a position after, at best, about  six years  that she wouldnt be able to fund the 
care provider fees of her chosen provider.      
At this point in time, about five years on from the point the advice was given, Mrs R would  be 
in about the same position with regards  funding.  That is, that she would have  the same  
overall level of funding whether she had retained  the capital and paid the fees, or taken the 
annuity and paid the fees from the remaining  capital.  I appreciate that Mrs R may have been 
able to stay at her chosen provider for slightly longer  if she had simply taken the decision to 
use her capital rather than buy the annuity.  But the position does have some material 
differences, in that Mrs Rs capital would have been simply expended on care fees and care 
funding would be largely borne by the local authority,  whereas alternatively  her capital 
position would broadly  be the same but she would have had an annuity  paying an increasing  
income. This could  have  made a significant difference  should  the local authoritys approach 
have changed.  
It is not true to say that the local authority wouldnt pay towards  Mrs Rs care fees for her 
chosen provider,  it just wouldnt pay all the fees.
It is possible that Mrs R could have  invested  this money in such  a way as sufficient positive 
returns could have  been obtained  to ameliorate  her position somewhat  in other words 
maintain the care fees for longer. But that is uncertain  Mrs R would have  needed to 
expose her capital to significant risk to do that  something which her attitude to risk did not 
generally permit. In any event, regardless of attitude to risk, this option would have brought  
with it the consequent risk of a reduction in invested  value   leading to the potential  of her 
capital being exhausted sooner. 
It is a very difficult position  when  significant  amounts of care fees are required but there is 
insufficient capital  to pay for them  long term. There is no adequate solution to that. In this 
situation there was a choice between retaining capital and dissipating that or choosing  the 
annuity which would essentially do the same thing  but retain an income payable regardless 
of the local authority support. Savvy could  have set these options  out in more detail, not just 
the annuity option. But in the circumstances I dont  believe  Savvys advice was unsuitable or 
there was necessarily a better option.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Rs 
representatives to accept or reject my decision before  28 February 2021. 
Ref: DRN98092997David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9809299