K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Acromas Insurance  Company  Limited.  They are not 
happy about the way it has dealt with a claim  under  their car insurance  policy.
background
Mr M was involved in a minor  incident with a taxi near his home address in January 2019.  
Mr M says the taxi driver  admitted liability at the time. But he says that Acromas has held 
him liable.
Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he complained  to this service. He says that he provided  
various pieces of evidence, such as dashcam and other CCTV footage, in support of his 
position that Acromas  kept saying it didnt receive.  And when it did respond to him it was 
vague.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. Although he was aware,  
through Mr M, that Acromas had undertaken some  investigation. It didnt respond to any of 
his questions or provide any detail about  the investigation it had undertaken. So he asked 
Acromas to fully update  Mr and Mrs M. And provide a detailed explanation about  how it 
came to conclude liability.  He also asked it to pay Mr and Mrs M £350  compensation for the 
poor service, delay and lack of explanation provided.
As Acromas failed to respond the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
As Acromas hasnt responded, in any meaningful  way, to the investigators  enquiries it is 
difficult to assess this case. But its lack of action  clearly sits with the complaint advanced by 
Mr M. He says Acromas hasnt considered the evidence he provided fully and has been 
vague in its response.
Acromas has been given a number of opportunities to send its business file or any 
supporting evidence to this service yet it has failed to respond.  As such, I only have Mr Ms 
position on record. 
I understand from Mr and Mrs Ms latest  correspondence with this service that matters 
havent actually  been finalised with the third party. And they have had recent  contact with 
their insurers  and solicitors. It is a pity that Acromas didnt look to update  them, and this 
service, earlier  and in a clear detailed way.
From what  I have  seen, and what Mr M has told us. I agree that Acromas should  provide 
Mr and Mrs M with a detailed explanation  about  how things have gone to date. It should  
explain what  evidence it has considered and the weight  it has placed on the various  pieces 
of evidence (including Mr Ms). And to explain why things have been delayed and look to 
expedite the claim now.
Ref: DRN90371252I also agree  that Acromas  should pay Mr and Mrs M £350 compensation. I say this as they 
have been left in the unfortunate position of not understanding how Acromas was 
proceeding on liability. They thought, or were  told, at one stage that liability  had been settled 
against them  when  it appears it hadnt. And the taxi driver said he was liable,  and Mr M feels  
the evidence supports  him. Plus, all this has an impact on Mr and Mrs Ms no claims 
discount and premiums going forward. So, they need a clear  explanation as to how their 
claim has been considered to date and compensating for the poor service, delay and lack of 
explanation. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above  that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited  to look again  at liability and explain to Mr and Mrs M, in greater 
detail, the present position. It should also explain  why the claim has been  delayed and pay 
Mr and Mrs M £350 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9037125