K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains on behalf of his mother,  Mrs F, that she had to pay high premiums for her 
home insurance with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  over the years, when 
other cheaper policies  were available.
background
Mrs F and her late husband had had a policy underwritten by LV since  1999  and Mrs F alone 
since 2003. In that time neither of them had engaged with LV about the premium, which was 
paid annually by cheque.  In 2016 Mr F began looking at Mrs Fs finances. Her renewal quote 
then was for £581  and by looking online Mr F was able to find a new policy, with LV, for 
Mrs F for £116.  LV has explained  that the policy had less cover than her old one and that a 
matched price would be £227.
LV explained  that it had taken over another insurer in 1998 and as part of the arrangement  
had agreed to keep  all of that insurers customers (including Mrs F) on similar  policies. It 
didnt automatically  transfer the policies to any of its alternative covers as they werent 
necessarily like for like. The policy to which Mrs F ultimately transferred in 2016 was 
available from 2008, to both existing and new customers. LV said it couldnt automatically  
transfer the new product to Mrs Fs legacy product because it needed to run through  a brand 
new quote so it could provide an accurate price and verify the terms and conditions with her. 
It said, however, that its renewal letters make clear that other newer products are available. 
As a gesture  of goodwill, and as compensation for customer loyalty,  LV offered Mrs F £100.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator didnt think Mrs F had been  treated fairly bearing in 
mind her position as an elderly customer who hadnt, over the years,  engaged  with LV about 
the premiums. He proposed that LV refund the difference  between the premiums Mrs F paid 
from the renewal of 2009 (when the new policy would  have been available to her) to 2015  
and the matched price of the new policy (£227). He said LV must add simple interest to 
those sums  at 8% pa. He thought the offer of £100  compensation  was fair and reasonable.
LV didnt agree, pointing out that Mrs F was never  obliged to take up its renewal offers,  and 
it had for a number of years advised  its customer at renewal that other  products  were 
available. It also pointed  out that in similar cases this service hadnt upheld  such  a 
complaint.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance rules  require businesses to treat their customers fairly. Here  LV had a number  
of legacy policies  which it had taken over from another  insurer.  For understandable business 
reasons, it didnt move those customers on to new policies of its own. Instead it relied on the 
customer getting in touch when they received  renewal  notices.  LV has admitted it didnt have  
full information  about the properties from those customers (like the number of bedrooms), so 
I dont think it could  assess in the way it could  for other customers, whether they were being 
treated fairly in terms of the price it was asking to cover the risk. For new policies it would 
have required a lot more information.  Instead  it relied on the customer  getting in touch, 
Ref: DRN96082632otherwise they were  kept on the old policies. I dont think that worked  fairly  for customers, 
like Mrs F, who are elderly and clearly not able to appropriately engage with the renewal 
process. Mrs F was limited in her ability to shop around and this should have been clear  to 
LV from her lack of engagement over the years. 
The renewal  letters, at least from 2012 (none are available from before then) said We have 
newer products  available which could in some instances (though not all) result in premium  
savings. However, this will require  you to provide us with more  information about
you and your home. But again that doesnt account  for customers that might be described 
as inert. I think LV would have had an opportunity to engage with Mrs F in 2003, when she 
notified it that her husband had died. She was a customer of another  company taken on 
through LVs takeover,  but didnt engage  with LV for 17 years.  I dont think  the information in 
the renewal letters was sufficient to advise  her that the alternative  policy  was available  on a 
much cheaper basis. And that there was a need for her to give them  more  information about 
her and her property so that they could  quote  her in the same way that it could for its other 
customers
I note LVs referral to other similar cases this service  may have looked at. Although all cases 
are decided on their own merits, Im not aware  of any recent case  where we have  decided  
differently. And, as LV will be aware,  we have recently been looking very closely into the 
pricing practices of the insurance industry.  Consumer inertia, and the detrimental effect that 
this can have on some customers prices, is something that we take into account in 
complaints similar to Mrs Fs.
My view is that LV should refund the difference in price between  the type of policy  Mrs F 
obtained in 2016 and the premiums she paid under the legacy policy.  I think the availability 
of the new policy from 2009 should  be the starting  point here. And looking at the matched  
price of £227, I think this would be a fair price  on which to base  the repayment. LV should 
refund the difference between £227 and the premiums Mrs F paid from the renewal in 2009 
up to and including the 2015 renewal.  LV should add interest from the dates those premiums  
were paid until repayment. 
I think the £100 compensation offered for customer loyalty  was fair and reasonable and I 
also consider this compensates Mrs F for the trouble and upset that the facts  of this 
complaint have caused her. I believe this was sent by cheque but not cashed. If the cheque 
has now expired, LV should include this in the payment to Mrs F. Otherwise, if Mr F accepts 
this decision, he can now pay in that cheque. 
Ref: DRN96082633my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to:
refund  the difference between the premiums Mrs F actually paid under her policy,  for 
each year from the 2009 renewal up to and including the 2015 renewal, and £227.
pay simple  interest*  at 8% per annum, from the dates each premium  was paid until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F, on behalf of 
Mrs F, to accept  or reject  my decision before 5 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to take tax off 
any interest it pays to Mrs F. Should Mrs F (or Mr F on her behalf)  request it, esure should give Mrs F 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so she can reclaim it if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9608263