K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased with finance  from 
FirstRand bank Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance).
background 
In July 2018 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement with 
Motonovo.
Mr W experienced various faults  with the car and an independent report concluded  that the 
faults had been present at the point of supply.  Motonovo told Mr W it would accept his 
request to reject the car.
Collection of the car was delayed. Mr W says he incurred storage costs  and paid additional 
insurance costs as a result. He wants these  reimbursed.
Our investigator asked  Mr W to provide evidence of his storage and insurance costs  but 
these werent provided. The investigator  upheld the complaint on the grounds that Motonovo  
hadnt offered  Mr W any compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the 
problems hed experienced with the car.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed been  without  use of the car for a month whilst repairs were 
attempted, during which time hed had to continue to pay his monthly repayments and 
insurance. He said hed also incurred costs in purchasing an alternative  car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the car had a number of faults which werent successfully repaired, so I think  
Motonovo acted  fairly in accepting the request to reject the car. 
In relation to the storage and insurance  costs which Mr W says hes incurred, I dont have  
any evidence to show that these were incurred  and in what  amount,  so Im unable to 
consider them. Mr W has been  asked on more than one occasion to provide this information  
but he hasnt done so.
Ive taken Mr Ws comments into account in relation to the costs  he incurred in purchasing 
an alternative car. Again, I havent been  provided  with evidence  to show  that these costs 
were incurred. Generally  however, I dont think it would be fair to ask Motonovo  to reimburse 
Mr W for the costs of purchasing an alternative car. This is because I can see that Mr W has 
received a full refund  of his deposit, so this was available to him to use to purchase or put 
towards the purchase of another car. And although Mr W travelled some  distance to 
purchase his car this was his choice, so I dont think its fair to ask Motonovo  to cover  those  
costs.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I agree with the investigators 
view that the complaint  should be upheld on the grounds that Motonovo  hasnt  offered  
sufficient compensation  for the trouble and upset caused to Mr W.
Ref: DRN91546972my final decision
My final decision is that FirstRand Bank  Limited should pay compensation of £150 to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9154697