K822xcomplaint
 
Mr G is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank  plcs IT system meant he was unable to access  
his bank accounts online. He is also unhappy  about  TSBs subsequent customer  service 
linked to this complaint.
background
Mr G had two current  accounts  with TSB. In April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its 
IT system.  This caused Mr G problems managing accounts via online and telephone banking  
as he usually did; and he also experienced issues when  trying to use in branch banking  as 
an alternative.
With regards to the online banking services; Mr G was unable to access  his online banking  
over several months despite trying on numerous devices, browsers and occasions.  When  he 
did manage to access his online banking, he was unable to rely on it as he said it was 
apparent to him that some  payments  were  not appearing.  Mr G said he tried to use 
telephone banking instead on a number of occasions and found that there were long queues 
which meant he had to wait a long time for his calls to be answered,  if they were  at all. He 
said they were not always able to assist with the information or services he required when he 
did get through. 
The problems with online  and telephone banking meant Mr G had to go into branch in order 
to manage his finances. Mr G is disabled and has mobility issues,  which  Mr G explained  
made it extremely complicated and difficult for him to attend the branch. Mr G told us that 
when he was in branch,  the systems were not always  working  which meant he had to attend  
another branch. He also had to withdraw  money and go to another branch to deposit the 
money in order to make faster payments. 
Mr G said he needed access to his statements in order to complete tax returns  and didnt 
receive them despite many requests made in branch and on the telephone. He did receive 
these in December  2018. 
Mr G also had to spend time contacting his mortgage provider in order to ensure payments 
had gone through.  He said he found  the experience exceptionally  difficult, and it is clear the 
issues had a significant impact on him emotionally  as well as causing him practical  and 
physical difficulties. He said it caused him uncertainty  and emotional  distress  he felt he 
would not know  if any fraud happened  on his account as he couldnt monitor  his transactions  
or account balance.  He also explained  he had to spend a lot of time doing this to the 
detriment of other areas of his life. 
Mr G tried to complain  to TSB but didnt receive a substantive response,  so he brought  the 
complaint to our service. Two investigators  reviewed the circumstances and the first 
recommended £16 in financial losses for the phone calls, and £300 for the impact  the matter  
had on Mr G. They also asked TSB to provide him with the annual statements he required. 
Mr G was not happy as the IT difficulties continued,  and whilst  he received the £316, he 
didnt receive his annual statement. This was reviewed by another investigator, who agreed 
this was a fair offer in the circumstances. However,  Mr G wasnt  happy with this so his case 
has come  to me for a decision. 
Having reviewed what happened, I got in touch with Mr G and TSB to let them  know that I 
was minded to increase the payment for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G to 
Ref: DRN93438702£500. This was in recognition of the increased impact these matters  had on him due to his 
mobility issues,  and because the matters had continued after the investigators had reviewed 
his complaint. Mr G agreed  to this, but as TSB did not. 
They felt that they had not had the opportunity to address the ongoing issues after our 
investigator had made their recommendations. They did so and paid Mr G a further £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience,  and a payment of sixty pence for postage costs and shared 
the requested  statements.  They stated that their records showed  they had sent the 
statements more than once, so suggested  that Mr G should contact the postal  service.  They  
also said they could  see from his account use that he had other accounts, so if he was 
unable to use them they were unsure why he continued to use his TSB accounts in the usual 
way. They  said they could only see one branch visit in which he deposited funds into his 
account, which he would have to attend  to do anyway. They showed that faster payments 
had taken place  which meant he did have access to his account. They also said that there  
was only one direct debit set up which meant that he would have only had to make one 
contact to ensure  this was paid. 
When this was put to Mr G, he responded with further evidence. He confirmed he had 
received the further £50 and another payment of £1. He also said: 
Mr G did not receive the two statements that TSB said they had sent numerous times 
 he had asked  for full statements  for both accounts and only received partial 
statements, or statements  for one account.  He did not receive these in full until 
December 2018  and detailed and attached  the partial statements he received in the 
post on previous  occasions between September and December 2018.  He then 
received a letter in October 2019  indicating that there was a problem with their copy  
statements which meant he was not confident that the statements had been accurate 
or complete. He has found an example where  a statement entry was incorrectly 
labelled. This has caused  him to have to spend  a great deal more  time on this matter 
due to these failures. 
Mr G felt that he stood a better chance  of receiving his statements and better 
customer service  if he remained  a customer of TSB rather  than moving his accounts  
to another bank  at the first opportunity. He feels he showed  tremendous patience  
with TSB and that his other banking arrangements were  not pertinent to the 
complaint. He explained that he holds two accounts with TSB which  he uses  for 
specific purposes and felt it was reasonable to expect  that they would respond to the 
issues and complaint appropriately.  He explained  that his mortgage came out of one 
of these accounts so he didnt want to have to change this. 
Mr G said he did have to go into branch several times during  this period  not just to 
deposit funds  but to withdraw them too. He explained this was necessary as he 
couldnt access online or telephone banking to do it online as he normally  would. So 
he said he needed to deposit and withdraw  funds to be confident there would be 
sufficient funds  available for his mortgage direct debit and funds in his other  bank 
account as advised  by branch  staff.  The systems  were often down in branch and they 
were unable  to tell him if there was money  in his account or if the direct  debit had 
been paid for his mortgage. So, he was advised  to withdraw cash and then deposit it 
into the account to ensure he had enough in there to cover his mortgage.  He detailed 
Ref: DRN93438703the three branches  he visited,  and explained  he also had to attend another bank. He 
explained how difficult this was due to his mobility issues, as he was unable  to use 
public transport at the time. He said he suspects TSB dont  have full records of when  
his attendance as their systems in branch were  often down. 
Mr G agreed  he only had one direct debit on these accounts   namely his mortgage. 
He tried to see if it had gone  through online,  through telephone banking and in 
branch with TSB but was unable  to so had to contact his mortgage  provider. 
He also expressed  that he was disappointed that they continued  to fail to recognise  the 
significant inconvenience and difficulty that this caused him particularly  as a disabled  
customer. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still feel that an 
increase in payment for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G is fair and 
reasonable  Ill explain  why. 
It is not in dispute  that Mr M was impacted by the IT problems TSB was experiencing. So, 
what I need to determine  is what the impact was on Mr M and what it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask TSB to do to put things  rights.  In doing so, I have considered both the 
financial losses and the distress and inconvenience  this caused Mr G. 
TSB have  already  paid for financial  losses relating to phone  calls and postage.  Mr G has 
agreed with the payment, and I consider this to be fair and reasonable as an offer for 
financial losses.  
I need to consider the distress and inconvenience these matters caused Mr G. The distress 
he felt is clear in the numerous letters he sent to TSB and the letters, emails and phone  calls 
made to this service. It is clear that this occupied a lot of his time, as well as caused him 
significant stress. He had to dedicate a lot of time and effort  to managing  his finances during 
the prolonged period  in which  the IT issues  meant he could not do this in the usual  way. He 
had to keep requesting his full bank statements for the two accounts for his tax returns  and 
I have seen the partial versions that he received  beforehand.  Ive considered the fact that he 
had to visit multiple branches of TSB in order to manage his finances  which I am inclined 
to agree that he did based on his testimony and the known  issues branches had with their 
systems - and the additional  difficulties he had in doing this due to his disability. His mobility  
issues would  have  made it very difficult to attend  branches, and therefore I think  this had a 
significantly greater impact on Mr G than it may do to other customers. Whilst a financial 
award cannot return Mr G the time, and physical and emotional energy he spent  due to the 
IT issues, I feel it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to pay £500  in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G due to the IT issues. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ask that TSB to pay Mr G £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, and £16.60  for the financial losses   minus  those sums  
already paid to Mr G. 
Ref: DRN93438704Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9343870