K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
BOS have provided the agreement completed at the time. The agreement had a separate  
section for PPI where the option to take the policy had been  selected and printed before it 
was signed by Mrs B separate  from the credit. I would have expected Mrs B to have read the 
form and raised any questions she had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I 
think BOS made it clear that Mrs B didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this now many years later.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs B has said she would have received six months sick pay from her employer if she was 
too ill to work and that she also had some  savings she could  use. But this policy would cover 
10% of the outstanding balance of her account  for up to 12 months if she was too sick to 
work or she lost her job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any 
other pay she would receive.  And it wouldve allowed her to use any savings she had for 
other expenses, or keep them intact  for the future. So I still think  the PPI would have  been  
useful.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs B paid for it. But BOS  has already offered to give Mrs B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs B now Ive issued  my final decision. 
Ref: DRN92745992my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9274599