K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that Virgin Money  plc incorrectly handled his request for a refund on a faulty 
car.
background 
Mr D purchased a car in July 2018 for £3600. He paid £2600 using his Virgin  credit card. 
There was a problem  with the roof of the car that the dealership  was unable to repair and Mr 
D exercised his right to reject the car. At the same  time Mr D raised the issue  with Virgin  as 
the dealership  refused his request for a refund.
Virgin raised the chargeback process  for the £2600 paid on the card.  The dealership  initially 
disputed the chargeback but eventually agreed to refund the amount paid on the card.  In 
January 2019  Virgin  then began the process  of a section 75 claim for the remaining amount. 
I understand that this has recently  been  successful.
Our adjudicator considered that Virgin should have begun the process as a section 75 claim 
from the outset given the information that was provided by Mr D. She thought  that Virgin  had 
delayed unnecessarily and not given Mr D the correct information.  She considered that as a 
result of this Mr D had been without  a car for a long time and had been caused considerable 
trouble and upset.  She thought that Virgin should  pay Mr D £400 compensation in addition  to 
an earlier payment  of £75.
Virgin didnt agree and replied to say in summary  that it wasnt  required to offer the section 
75 process and it was up to Mr D to request it. Virgin said it was not in a position  to give 
advice about the process.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased  to note that Mr D has finally had his money back  for the car. It appears that 
both the chargeback and the section  75 claim have been determined  in his favour.
Virgin suggests that although  some  consideration was given to pursuing a section 75 claim 
the business is not required to offer this resolution  to consumers and the practice is to 
signpost customers to other organisations for advice. Virgin  explains that as it is not a 
financial adviser it cannot openly  offer this information to consumers and it needs to be 
authorised by the consumer to pursue this course of action.
I agree  with the adjudicator that as the experts  in these  matters it would be fair and 
reasonable for Virgin, having identified that a section 75 claim is both appropriate and likely  
to succeed, to advise the consumer of this option.  To expect the consumer to obtain advice 
from elsewhere and proactively instruct  Virgin to raise such a claim is neither fair nor 
reasonable.
In the circumstances I think that Virgin  have not properly handled Mr Ds section 75 claim 
and the delay in recovering his money has had an impact on him as he has been  without a 
car. Mr D has been inconvenienced  by this and by the unnecessarily  lengthy process to get 
Ref: DRN95180592his money back.  I agree  with the adjudicator that Virgin should pay Mr D £400  compensation 
to reflect  the trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it Virgin  Money 
plc should pay Mr D £400. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9518059