K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2005. Mr L says Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out during a meeting at a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mr Ls behalf, his representative disagreed with these findings. It has commented  that Mr 
L had a pre-existing  medical condition (PEMC)  when  he took out the policy,  and that he also 
stopped working  in 2005. The representative  has stated that Mr L should  therefore not have 
been sold the policy.
Based on the type of credit card application form that was used by Halifax around this time,   
the representative has pointed out the box selecting  PPI was electronically  printed. It has 
stated that the box to select  PPI had therefore been  chosen before Mr L received this form, 
and it has questioned whether Mr L was in fact given  a choice to take out PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out. Bank  of Scotland  has not been able to provide  a copy  of 
the actual agreement signed  by Mr L in 2005.  I dont  find this surprising, bearing in mind the 
number of years that have  passed  since the sale took place.
Bank of Scotland has been  able to provide other  documentation that relates to the PPI sale, 
including a Demands  and Needs Statement.  This confirmed that Halifax was 
recommending PPI to Mr L. On balance in my view this indicated that PPI was an optional  
product.
Bank of Scotland has also provided a sample credit  card application  form that it states is 
similar to the document  Mr L would  have been  required  to sign when taking out the card.  On 
this form, a box was available to select PPI. I acknowledge Mr Ls representatives 
comments that the PPI box on these  forms is generally electronically  ticked.  However, it 
seems to me that this is likely to have resulted from a conversation  having  taken place  
between the adviser  and the applicant about PPI, before the application form was then 
printed. Based on the weight of evidence provided,  my conclusion  is that Mr L chose to take 
out PPI after it had been presented to him as an optional extra.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. The policy  
excluded claims for PEMCs. When  Mr L brought his complaint to this service, he stated that 
he did not have  any health problems when  he took out the policy, and that he was not 
registered as disabled at this time.
Ref: DRN97806012When this service began to investigate this complaint, the representative  mentioned two 
conditions that it states  Mr L had. It stated that the first condition (which  I will call condition 
one) was diagnosed in 2004, Mr L was then medically retired  in 2005, and a second  
condition (which I will call condition two)  was diagnosed in 2007. On balance it would seem 
that condition  two would not have meant the recommendation to take out PPI was 
unsuitable, because  it post dated the start of the policy.  It is therefore likely that Mr L would 
have been able to make a successful claim for condition  two.
With regard to condition  one, when we asked  for further details about this, we were informed 
by the representative that this was diagnosed in May 2005. This was the same month that 
the PPI policy  started. Further correspondence  from the representative stated that condition 
one was diagnosed in July 2004.  Due to the inconsistencies in the submissions made 
regarding whether Mr L was suffering from condition one when he was recommended  the 
policy, we have asked  for further documentation to confirm exactly  when condition one 
started. No further evidence has been provided  to clarify this.
Bearing in mind that Mr L said in his initial submissions that he was not suffering from any 
health problems  when he took out the policy, and the subsequent inconsistent information  
which has been provided regarding whether Mr L had condition one at the point of sale,  
overall my conclusion on balance is that Mr L would have not have affected by the exclusion 
for claims  relating to any PEMC.  He doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any other  of 
the main exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover either.
Mr Ls representative has also said that he stopped working in 2005.  Bank  of Scotlands 
records show that Mr L was working at the point of sale.  The employment  information Mr L 
provided in his initial submissions to this service also indicated that this was the case.  On 
balance I consider that he was eligible for PPI when sold the policy.  Taking into account Mr 
Ls means available to meet his card repayments  if he wasnt  working, my view is that he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But Mr L chose to take the policy out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if he wasnt  working. It also looks  
like it was affordable. On balance I dont think better information about the PPI would  have 
put Mr L off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L and his representative  have  said about the sale, but 
overall my conclusion is that this policy was not mis-sold.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mr L paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mr L back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN97806013my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9780601