K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy PRA Group (UK) Limited (PRA) failed  to acknowledge proof of two 
payments to them and these  were  not applied to his account.
background
Mr C says PRA informed  him he had missed  payments on his account (November and 
December 2018). Mr C says he pays his account  by bank giro credit  slips and has been 
using this way of paying since around April 2018.
Mr C says he supplied PRA with copies of his receipts from the bank hed made  the payment 
from. He also contacted the bank the payments were made from and they confirmed  the 
payments had been made to PRA successfully.
PRA told Mr C it had double checked and his payments  hadnt  been received. In addition,  
the bank account details  on the payment receipts didnt correspond to PRAs  bank account.
Mr C remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. PRA then told us the payments 
had now been  found and allocated to Mr Cs account. It explained, due to a system change 
with the sending bank, funds were  being received by PRA but with no indication  of what 
those funds related  to.
The investigator accepted there may have  been  issues beyond PRAs  control  but thought 
PRA should have told Mr C the payments had been  allocated. This would have helped 
reassure Mr C, so he asked PRA to pay Mr C £40 for this undue stress and inconvenience.
PRA agreed with the investigator and offered to pay the £40, but Mr C disagreed  and says 
the compensation should be around  £300. As Mr C didnt agree the matter  has been  passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C first contacted our service  his payments hadnt yet been  located. That has now 
been resolved.  So the only issue Im now considering is whether PRAs offer of £40 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to him is a reasonable offer or not.
I accept that PRA was initially unable to locate Mr Cs payments because  of a change  to the 
way they sent payment information to PRA. When Mr C supplied documentary  evidence of 
his payments, PRA did not recognise  the details held on the receipts. Looking at the giro 
slips provided to Mr C by PRA, I can see the sort code on Mr Cs payment receipts doesnt 
match. So PRA was right about the incorrect bank account details on the receipts and I can 
see why there was some confusion.
As none of this was in PRAs control I dont think itd be fair to blame them  for being  able to 
initially locate the payments.  That being said, I have considered if PRA could have done 
more to investigate  the problem. I can see in their final response letter to Mr C they 
suggested he may wish to approach the sending  bank  to check if the payments had been 
sent successfully.  I find this reasonable in the circumstances  as the bank  were  in the best 
Ref: DRN93630822position to look into it and identify any issues. I dont think  there was much more  PRA could 
have done at that stage. They didnt know about  the change in how payments were  being 
sent to them.  So it was reasonable for PRA to assume the issue was a result of the incorrect  
bank details on Mr Cs payment receipts.
Once PRA became aware of the issue, after the complaint had been brought to our service, 
the funds Mr C paid were allocated to his account and the matter resolved.
However, this information was not communicated to Mr C by PRA despite them  being  aware  
he had complained about the matter and had called them on several occasions. It was only 
when the information was provided to the investigator that Mr C was informed  the payments 
had successfully been made.  So I accept  this delay was unnecessary  and Mr C could have 
been informed  sooner.  This no doubt caused  him unnecessary stress and worry.
That being  said,  I need to take into account  what Ive said about the circumstances being out 
of PRAs control as they were initially unaware  of the issue. And Im glad to see the 
timescale within which the issue was resolved was relatively short.  
For these reasons PRA should compensate Mr C for the trouble and upset caused by them 
not telling  him they had allocated the payment. I find £40 is a reasonable offer to reflect this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct PRA 
Group (UK) Limited to pay Mr C £40 for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363082