K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about how their subsidence claim on their home insurance policy  
with esure  Insurance Limited has been handled.
Mr and Mrs S have  been represented  by a third party throughout this complaint. For ease of 
reading, all references  to Mr and Mrs S include those of their representative.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a home insurance  policy with esure. In 2010  they noticed  subsidence at 
their property and made a claim.  
In 2011 esures  loss adjuster inspected  the property and initially  put together  a report. They  
said that there were  four trees near the property  that could be causing the subsidence. They  
recommended two were  removed with the other two noted as future risks. 
In 2013 three of the four trees had been  removed. Mr and Mrs S instructed their own 
structural engineer  who said that the fourth  tree would need to be removed or underpinning 
would be required.  
esure eventually  agreed with this recommendation. However as the tree was on council 
land, it took some time to get agreement from the council. esure had previously said that if 
the tree wasnt removed  by a deadline then it would move to underpin  the property. It took 
the council longer than the deadline, however once the tree was removed, esure  said the 
property is likely to have  stabilised. It therefore said underpinning would no longer be 
required but instead a period of monitoring should take place.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with this assessment  as they said the monitoring would take 
some time. They thought  underpinning should  take place due to the delays they had already 
suffered, in order to get a quicker resolution.  They also thought esure should pay for the fees 
of their professional  representative as they felt theyd had to employ  him due to the poor 
handling of the claim  so far. They brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that Mr and Mrs S complaint 
wasnt upheld. He said as the property appeared to now have stabilised, he couldnt  
recommend that it was underpinned.  Further he said it is the approach of this service  that we 
would only consider directing a business to pay the fees of a personal  representative  if this 
had resulted in a change  of outcome to the claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree with this. They said due to the delays the claim had been ongoing 
for nine years and underpinning would  now bring a quicker resolution. They asked for the 
complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN98301742During the claim Mr and Mrs S have made  three previous complaints to this service  this is 
the fourth.  In total £5250 has been awarded due to delays and poor handling of the claim in 
response to previous complaints. I can only consider events since  the last decision was 
issued by an ombudsman  in January 2018. 
Since this time, esure has tried to ensure the fourth tree was removed.  It originally said that 
should this not take place by April 2017 then it would  underpin  the house. The tree removal 
eventually took place in October 2018.  I appreciate this is a long wait and some time after 
the original deadline. However from what Ive seen, this delay was out of esures  control. It 
couldnt have  removed the tree without  the agreement of the council.  And it continually 
pursued the council  to ask that the tree was removed. esure even  told them that if it wasnt  
removed, the cost of underpinning would need to be paid by the council. esure eventually  
secured their agreement. So although  I appreciate this process took much longer than it 
should have, I cant say this was the fault of esure.
Since the tree was removed  a period of monitoring has taken place  and the property has 
stabilised. So it appears underpinning is no longer required. However Mr and Mrs S think  
underpinning should be carried out as there have been so many delays and this would 
provide the quickest resolution. 
Underpinning is a method of strengthening  the foundations of a house, where it is unstable 
due to subsidence. It is usually only used in extreme circumstances where movement hasnt 
been stabilised by other means. In this case,  after the removal of the first three trees,  the 
house was still unstable.  esure was having  problems  getting a commitment from the council 
to remove the final tree. I can therefore  understand why it said it would underpin the house if 
the council didnt comply with its demands. As at this stage,  the movement hadnt stabilised.
However since then the tree has been removed. esure initially  monitored  the property for six 
months and this showed the property had stabilised  since  the removal. I understand from 
esure that a further six months has now taken  place at Mr Ss request. And it is still showing 
the house to be stable.  Due to this I dont agree that underpinning is now the best course of 
action. As it seems the cause of the movement has been identified and removed.
With subsidence claims we expect the insurer  to provide long lasting and effective repairs to 
the property. However it isnt the insurers responsibility to ensure the house  never  moves  
again. In this case, as the house is now stable, I think repairing the cracks themselves, 
rather than underpinning, is the most  suitable repair. So I think  esures  proposed course of 
action is fair and reasonable. I therefore wont interfere  in its decision not to underpin Mr Ss 
property.
Mr and Mrs S say that as the claim has been  delayed, it would be fair for esure to move  
straight to underpinning in order to provide a quicker resolution. Underpinning is a 
substantial structural repair that can cause significant disruption to residents  of a home. It 
usually takes around  six weeks  to complete,  if not longer. So at this stage, I dont agree that 
this would be the quickest resolution.  I also wouldnt expect an insurer to provide  
underpinning to make  up for delays, when  it isnt required to stabilise the property. 
I have considered whether esure  should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays. As I said,  I am only considering what  has happened 
since January 2018. I have also said that I dont think the delay to the tree removal was 
esures fault. After  the tree was removed, esure moved straight  to monitoring. And this was 
only extended on request by Mr S. So although  I appreciate the claim has been ongoing for 
Ref: DRN98301743a significant length of time, I cant see that esure  has caused  avoidable  delays since  January 
2018. And has progressed the claim as quickly as it could in that time. I therefore wont  
require esure to pay any further  compensation.
Mr S has also said he has been  forced  to employ  a professional  representative to help 
manage his claim, due to the issues caused  by esure. He says because  of this, esure should 
pay the fees of the representative. Although I can empathise with Mr Ss frustration at the 
length of time the claim has been  going  on for, I dont think its fair to require esure to cover 
the fees. There are some  occasions where  this service would recommend fees are covered. 
This is usually when the employment of a representative  can be directly linked to a change  
in outcome of a claim. I cant see that this is the case here.  Further  Mr S has been  asked  on 
numerous occasions to provide costs or invoices for his representative, which  he has failed 
to do. I therefore  dont  think  its fair to ask esure  to cover the cost of the fees. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I wont interfere in esure Insurance  Limiteds  decision not to underpin 
Mr and Mrs S property.  I will also not require it to do anything differently or in addition.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9830174