K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society recorded her National Insurance  number 
incorrectly on her cash  ISA account.    
Background  
Miss C holds a cash ISA account with Nationwide, which she opened in June 2005. In 2016 
she transferred this ISA to another provider elsewhere. And the following year she 
transferred it back to Nationwide.
In December 2018 Miss C noticed  that her National Insurance number had been recorded 
incorrectly on a statement that she received  from Nationwide. Miss C feels  Nationwide  is 
responsible for this error  and shes  concerned that incorrect information may have been 
recorded with HMRC as a result.
On 22 January 2019 Miss C raised a complaint with Nationwide about this. But she didnt 
receive a response  or acknowledgement to her complaint. So, on 15 March  2019 she 
telephone Nationwide to request an update. Nationwide investigated  Miss Cs complaint and 
didnt uphold  it. It said that it had used the National Insurance  number  she had provided it 
with in 2005 when she had first opened her account.  It also said when Miss C transferred her 
ISA to and from another provider it wouldnt have had reason to check  whether her National 
Insurance number  had been correctly recorded. 
So, Nationwide didnt think  it had made an error. But it did accept that it should  have  
responded to Miss Cs complaint without her having  to chase an update by telephone.  And it 
thought the length  of time she had spent on hold during her call with Nationwide in March 
had been unnecessarily  lengthy. To acknowledge these service issues Nationwide 
apologised and credited Miss Cs account with £100  as a goodwill payment.   
Being unhappy with Nationwides  response Miss C referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Miss C, didnt think Nationwide 
had done anything wrong or needed to do anything more here. And they thought the £100  
goodwill payment it had made to Miss C for the poor service she had received after she 
raised her complaint  was reasonable. But Miss C disagreed  and asked for the matter  to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I understand that 
Miss C is frustrated that her National  Insurance  number was incorrectly recorded on her 
account, Im not persuaded that Nationwide was responsible for that error. It follows that I 
wont be upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the form Miss C completed when she applied  to open her cash ISA in 2005 
and I can see that the National  Insurance number she provided  Nationwide with is incorrect. 
Specifically, it ends in the wrong letter. Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear  this is 
where the incorrect National Insurance number came from. 
I realise Miss C made a genuine  mistake  in writing her National Insurance  number 
incorrectly on this form. But, it was ultimately her responsibility to provide Nationwide  with 
Ref: DRN93085432correct information  to ensure its records about her personal details were  accurate. 
Nationwide couldnt  have known Miss C had given it her National Insurance  number 
incorrectly until she told it. Its reasonable for it to expect its customers  to provide correct  
information about their National Insurance number.  And I dont think  it did anything wrong in 
relying on and using the information Miss C provided. So it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Nationwide responsible for Miss Cs error here.
Ive seen evidence  that, after Miss Cs account had been opened, Nationwide sent her ISA 
declaration forms as its required to do. These  forms are dated June 2011,  September 2015 
and January 2019 and theyre each  endorsed  with the National Insurance  number that Miss 
C provided Nationwide with in 2005.  Each  declaration form asks her to carefully check that 
all recorded details are correct. They also have a detachable section for a customer to 
complete and return if any information  is wrong. I think these forms placed  the onus on Miss 
C to correct any inaccurate information  they may have  contained.  And I think this 
demonstrates that Nationwide did what it was required to do to ensure  that the information it 
held about Miss C was correct. 
Miss C thinks  Nationwide should have identified that her National Insurance  number was 
incorrect when she transferred her ISA to and from another  provider in 2016 and 2017. But 
Nationwide said when  her ISA was transferred out it would  rely on the other provider to notify 
it if there had been incorrect  details recorded.  This didnt  happen.  And it said when  an ISA is 
transferred to Nationwide  it isnt part of its process to check  a customers  National Insurance  
number. So, I cant agree with what Miss C says here.
Miss C is concerned that having her National  Insurance  number incorrectly  recorded by 
Nationwide could mean that HRMC  holds incorrect information about  her. But Nationwide  
has confirmed that it hasnt passed  any information to HMRC. So, this error hasnt impacted 
on Miss C in the way she was worried about.
I can see that since Miss C complained to Nationwide  it has amended her National 
Insurance number  on its records.  So, her account  now reflects her correct details and Im 
satisfied its now put matters right. But there  were  delays  in Nationwide  putting  matters right 
for Miss C, which were  caused by its failure to respond to her complaint  until chased almost  
two months later.  
I agree  with Nationwide and our investigator  that it could have dealt with Miss Cs complaint 
better. And having listened to the telephone  call Miss C made to Nationwide  on 15 March, in 
which she was chasing a response  to her complaint, I also think  the length of this call was 
unnecessarily long. I say this because this call lasted 36 minutes  of which  Miss C spent 24 
minutes on hold. Im pleased to see the call handler  escalated Miss Cs complaint and five 
days later Nationwide  sent Miss C its final response. This was one day outside the eight 
week window a business is expected to investigate complaints within.  
Nationwide has already acknowledged  that Miss C received poor service after she raised her 
complaint by apologising and crediting her account with £100.  Im satisfied that this is a 
reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach in similar scenarios.  
I can see that Miss C has asked our service  to award compensation for her National 
Insurance number  being incorrectly recorded.  But as our investigator explained to her we 
can only award compensation  where  a business has made  a mistake which has impacted on 
a consumer. For the reasons outlined Im satisfied  that Nationwide  hasnt made an error  
Ref: DRN93085433here in the way in which it recorded  Miss Cs National Insurance  number. It follows that I 
wont be asking it to award any compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9308543