K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains Currencies Direct Ltd (CD)  misled her and gave poor advice about 
currency rates for international transfers.
background
Mrs C brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the final response shed 
received from CD in respect of her complaint. CD didnt uphold the compliant. They told 
Mrs C they could find no occasion where  she was misadvised with regards to the rate, or 
provided erroneous  advice. CD said shed been given information with regards to the market 
conditions and volatility at the time which extended  to opinion only.  And CD also told Mrs C 
shed expressly confirmed her willingness to enter into a legally binding contract after being  
clearly notified of the currency shed be receiving and at what  rate.
Our investigator thought she couldnt fairly conclude CD had done  anything wrong. She 
found Mrs C entered  into a verbal contract  on 22 May 2018 and shed agreed to CDs terms 
and conditions when  registering  with them on 19 April 2018.  Although  the investigator knew  
Mrs C was upset with the opinion of the adviser, when speaking  to him about the exchange 
rates, she was satisfied  no advice  was given and Mrs C made  the informed decision to go 
ahead with the transfer at the lower  exchange  rate.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She thought the investigators  
examination of her complaint was rather one dimensional. She expanded  on where she felt 
shed been misled and poorly advised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand why Mrs C is unhappy. She wanted to convert  a large  amount of sterling  
into a foreign currency to complete the purchase of a property overseas.  Shed approached 
more than one currency exchange service in the hope of achieving the best possible rate 
and feels shes had a poor outcome as a result of the poor advice from CD. Whilst I 
understand that I dont think the outcome here is as a result  of anything CD have done  
wrong. Ill explain why.
Mrs C agreed  to the CDs terms and conditions when she opened  the account. Those terms 
make it clear  CD do not give advice at section 2.6. I know Mrs C feels that there  is a fine line 
between advice and sharing an opinion  and thinks she received a fair dose of both. She told 
us simply because CD say that they do not provide advice, does not meant that they did not 
do so. But Im afraid I disagree. Even  if she felt advice  was given  here she says she 
regarded CD as the expert and she was wholly reliant on their opinions,  experience  and 
decisions - that was also contrary to CDs terms which state the client must not treat any 
information or comments by CD as advice and the client must rely only on its own 
judgement. And its Mrs Cs responsibility to ensure shes familiar with the terms and 
conditions on the account and operate within them.
Ref: DRN93570002Ive listened to the all the calls made in this case and agree with the investigators analysis of 
them. The recordings  satisfy me that Mrs C wasnt advised by CD. In the calls before  the 
final trade theres discussion about the setting of a limit rate and - after illustrations are given 
of what the difference in rate will mean for her transaction  - its Mrs C who sets the rate. In 
particular in the call of 22 May 2018  - when  discussing whether to complete the trade that 
day - the call handler is explicit in setting  out that hes giving his opinion.  
Im also satisfied that CD gave Mrs C appropriate  information and it was made  clear  to her 
that the currency market  could  fluctuate  both in their terms and in all the calls. And it seems 
to me, from listening to the calls, Mrs C understood this was the case. Mrs C acknowledges 
in the final call on 22 May 2018  - in response  to her raising that in an earlier  call on 18 May 
2018 shed considered setting the limit rate at 1.14 and the call handler said shed  have 
been unlikely  to achieve that as they were trading at 1.12 around  that time - thats the 
game. And, later in that final call, she said she appreciated this business  was not a 
science. So I have  some difficulty in accepting that Mrs C was confused about waiting for an 
aspirational rate which she says she thought would be the rate she achieved. It seems  to me 
Mrs C understood the rates were  dependant  on market fluctuations  and that there were risks 
in holding out for a rate to improve when she had a fixed  deadline for when the currency  had 
to be converted  for her purchase.
Mrs C told us she had no choice and felt backed into a corner  but I dont think the evidence  
supports that. Shes warned before both making  the transfer for the deposit and the balance 
of the purchase  price  that she was entering  into a legally binding  contract. She was also 
given the exchange rate applied and the cost to her in sterling of the transfer. And 
throughout the process she had freedom  to make enquiries about other rates  and deals 
which might  have been available, whilst still dealing with CD, with other  similar services  or a 
high street bank.
I can appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs C now feels unhappy  as she doesnt  
think shes achieved the best rate for her money.  But after considering  everything  I cant  say 
thats due to anything that CD have done  wrong. So I cant  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357000