K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) delayed access  to money from 
his smart investor account which he needed urgently for the purchase of shares  abroad. 
background
The parties are already  in agreement that the merits of the complaint should be upheld. One 
of our adjudicators considered the complaint and issued  an initial view that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Subsequent views followed because Barclays made  a succession of 
comments and queries, which Mr B addressed. During this process, evidence  (including 
telephone recordings, account  activity statements and trading related evidence) was 
provided, clarified and agreed.  
Eventually Barclays conceded the complaint (in terms  of merit), the findings  of the 
adjudicator, responsibility  for the problems  (and delays) Mr B faced and responsibility for 
financial loss directly  caused by the problems (and delays) he faced. Following from this, the 
agreed facts can be summarised  as follows:
On 2 May 2018 Mr B ordered  the sale of shares  in his account  to the value of 
£59,586.65. The sale was executed and the proceeds from it were  available  in his 
smart investor account the following  day (3 May).
Mr Bs plan was to use the proceeds to invest abroad in a specific  Polish stock  CD 
Projekt (or CDR,  as traded on the Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE)). CDR had an 
Annual General  Meeting (AGM) scheduled for 8 May. Mr B anticipated that the AGM 
would produce  positive news that would  make the value of the stock  rise. For this 
reason his plan was to buy the stock  before  the AGM.
At 00:32  hrs on 4 May, he submitted  a transfer  request  to remit the proceeds from his 
smart investor account to his Barclays current account. The plan,  separately,  was to 
transfer the money to his Polish  bank account thereafter and then purchase the CDR 
stock. Barclays did not complete the transfer  until around the afternoon of 8 May.     
Mr B had chased Barclays in this respect from the afternoon of 4 May  when  he 
queried why his transfer request earlier in the same day had not been completed and 
shared, with Barclays, his reinvestment  plan. He had continued to do so almost every 
day up to when  the transfer was completed.
On 8 May Mr B faced another undue delay arising from being forced, by Barclays, to 
transfer the money out of his current account  to his Polish account in two instalments 
over two days. His first transfer was on 8 May and his second transfer was on 9 May. 
By the time Mr B had his money available in his Polish account for the CDR stock 
purchase the stock  cost/value had risen  as he had previously anticipated. 
Mr B presented evidence and a calculation showing  that, based  on the Pound 
Sterling (GBP) to Polish zloty (PLN) exchange  rate that applied at the relevant 
time(s) the transferred  proceeds managed to get him the following   1,977 CDR 
shares; at the average price of 140.04  PLN; at the total gross cost/value of 
276,852.60 PLN; and at the total net cost/value (after deducting fees)  of 276,019.90 
PLN.
Mr B says,  based on the relevant  circumstances  as they were on 4 May, his 
proceeds would have bought around 257 more  shares if he had his money  available  
to him on that date.
The adjudicators conclusion was that the sale proceeds should have been  available  in      
Mr Bs current account by the end of Friday 4 May at the very latest, so he would then have  
Ref: DRN94969602been able to purchase the CDR stock in Poland  by Monday 7 May at the latest.  
He recommended that Barclays put Mr B in the position he would have  been  in had he 
purchased the CDR stock  on 7 May.  In addition he said Barclays  should pay Mr B £300 for 
the trouble and upset he has been caused. 
Mr B appears to accept  the basis for redress but he considers that £300  is not enough to 
reflect the trouble and upset he has been  caused.  Barclays delayed  in confirming its position 
on monetary redress. Mr B was unhappy about this and said a simpler basis  for redress   in 
order to avoid further delay  would  be for Barclays to purchase the additional CDR shares 
he could have bought with his money,  but for its delays, and then transfer ownership of 
those shares to him. 
Barclays eventually responded to say its redress calculation  had been  based on a 
comparison between the CDR share  prices on 7 and 8 May 2018, resulting in a redress  
amount of around  £2,700.  Mr Bs rough calculation of the value of his loss was around 
£12,000, so he rejected  Barclays  calculation.  The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Merit
I acknowledge that there  is no longer a dispute  about Barclays  concession  of the complaint 
(in terms of merit), about its responsibility for the delays faced by Mr B (as summarised 
above) and about its responsibility for financial loss directly arising from the delays. 
For the sake of completeness, I have considered evidence in this respect and I too conclude  
that the complaint is upheld and that Barclays is responsible for the undue delay in remitting 
Mr Bs sale proceeds to his Barclays current account and then for the problem that forced 
him to transfer those  proceeds to his Polish account over two days   which  compounded the 
initial delay.
Like the adjudicator,  I consider that the sale proceeds should have been  in Mr Bs current  
account by 4 May. There is evidence that the transfer from that account to his Polish account 
would have been reasonably prompt and that the transfer would have been completed  by 
7 May at the latest. There is also evidence of credibility in Mr Bs plan to invest in the CDR 
stock before 8 May to avoid buying  at a higher  price,  of Barclays awareness of the urgency 
associated with his plan and of the CDR stock purchases he then had to make  at higher 
prices thereafter.
It is worth noting that Barclays tested  Mr Bs assertions and evidence  in all relevant respects 
before eventually conceding  the complaint.  
Trouble and Upset
I agree  with the adjudicators proposal that Barclays should pay Mr B £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused to him in this matter.  I understand why he might consider that more should 
be awarded to him in this respect.  Some aspects of Barclays conduct in the matter  an in 
addressing his complaint could have been better. 
Ref: DRN94969603However, this part of the compensation  package is supposed to reflect the trouble and upset  
caused to a complainant, it is not a punitive measure against a firm. Overall, I consider  that 
£300 is broadly  consistent with the sort of trouble and upset award this service  would  give in 
cases comparable to Mr Bs.
Redress   
I agree  with the adjudicator. The aim for redress should be to put Mr B back in the position 
he would  have been, but for the delays and problems caused by Barclays. That position 
would have been as follows:
By the close of business on Friday 4 May 2018, at the latest, Mr B would have had 
£59,586.65 (the sale proceeds) available to him in his Barclays current  account. 
I consider he would have transferred this amount immediately to his Polish  bank 
account. The transfer would have been  completed by the start of business  on 
Monday 7 May 2018 at the latest.
On Monday 7 May 2018  Mr B would have used  the PLN equivalent of the sale 
proceeds to buy the CDR shares.   
I cannot be certain about precisely when, between  4 and 7 May 2018, the GBP proceeds 
would have been converted to PLN in Mr Bs Polish account and I cannot be certain about 
precisely when, on 7 May 2018, Mr B would have bought the CDR shares with the PLN 
equivalent of the proceeds. 
Nevertheless, evidence  suggests that the CDR shares were cheaper  on 7 May than they 
were from 8 May, so Mr Bs money bought less of those shares from 8 May than it could 
have bought on 7 May.  He must be compensated for the additional  amount of shares   after 
discounting the shares he bought  from 8 May  his money could have bought on 7 May.
Primarily, I agree with Mr Bs proposal  to base redress on the CDR shares  themselves, 
instead of monetary compensation. In this respect, to compensate Mr B fairly Barclays must  
do the following:
Pay him £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
Calculate what the PLN equivalent  of his £59,586.65 capital would  have been  at the 
start of business on 7 May 2018  the PLN equivalent.
Establish the average share  price for CDR on the WSE on 7 May 2018  the share  
price.
Calculate how many  CDR shares  Mr B could have bought with the PLN equivalent at 
the share price   the total number of CDR shares.
Subtract the 1,977 CDR shares  Mr B bought from the total number of CDR shares.  
The result  will be  the net number  of CDR shares.
Purchase the net number of CDR shares,  transfer ownership  of them to Mr B and 
transfer them to the account  he nominates. Barclays must also pay Mr B any 
dividends he would  have  earned from the net number of CDR shares  from 7 May 
2018 to the date of settlement.
Delays by Barclays have  featured in this complaint, so I consider it reasonable to make  
provisions in the event  that it delays in settling  compensation  to Mr B. In such an event, 
Barclays must pay interest to Mr B based  on a monetary value of the net number of CDR 
shares. The following  would apply:
Ref: DRN94969604The amount  of money required to purchase  the net number of CDR shares on the 
28th day after Barclays is notified of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision will stand as 
the monetary value . 
If Barclays does not settle redress within 28 days of being  notified of Mr Bs 
acceptance of this decision, it must pay him interest on the monetary  value at the 
rate of 8% simple per year from the 28th day after it is notified of his acceptance of 
this decision to the date of settlement. This interest is to compensate Mr B for being 
deprived of the monetary value due to a delay in settlement.
If, for a legitimate reason(s),  Barclays cannot compensate Mr B on the basis  of buying and 
transferring the net number of CDR shares  to him, a monetary compensation that broadly 
reflects their current total value should  apply  as follows: 
Both parties must  agree a redress calculation date; the redress calculation  date must  
be set within 28 days of Barclays being  notified of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision; 
and the total value  of the net number of CDR shares at the start of business on the 
redress calculation date will be the monetary compensation  due to Mr B.
This option should not deprive Mr B of any dividends  he would have earned from the 
net number of CDR shares  from 7 May 2018  to the date of settlement. This must also 
be calculated and paid to him.
Similar provisions  for delayed settlement apply to this option too. If Barclays does not 
settle redress within 28 days  of being  notified  of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision,  it 
must pay him interest  on the monetary  compensation at the rate of 8% simple per 
year from the 28th day after it is notified  of his acceptance of this decision to the date 
of settlement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to 
calculate and pay him compensation as stated above. Barclays  Bank UK PLC must also 
provide him with a calculation of the compensation in a clear  and simple  format. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before  15 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9496960