K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has taken too long to settle liability  in 
relation to his car insurance claim.
Mr M also complained about the repairs on his vehicle. This is being considered as a 
separate complaint with AXA so I will not discuss it any further within this decision.
background
Mr M held his car insurance with AXA. And in August 2017 a third party collided with his 
parked, stationary, unoccupied vehicle.  So Mr M made a claim under his policy.
Mr M complained to AXA in March  2018 as he said it had taken too long to determine liability  
for this claim. He said there were  independent  witnesses along  with CCTV that proved he 
was not at fault for the incident,  and that the third party had admitted liability.  He asked AXA 
to resolve the claim, apologise, and give him £100  for the ongoing  failures hed experienced.
In May 2018  AXA responded  to Mr M, and agreed it hadnt been  as proactive as it should 
have been in pursuing an admission of liability from the third party insurer. It said it had now 
received reimbursement  of its costs, so the claim had been recorded as closed, non-fault,  
and with no claims discount allowed. And to recognise the claim not being resolved earlier, it 
offered £150 to Mr M.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
explained AXA would have needed confirmation from the third party insurer (Insurer  A) 
before deciding how to proceed  with the claim.
And she said it was Insurer As failure  to respond that caused this ongoing delay. AXA had 
written to Insurer A on a regular monthly basis from August  2017  but had no response.  
The investigator considered whether AXA shouldve began legal action instead of continuing 
to chase for a response  taking into account she felt it was clear  that the third party driver 
was responsible for the incident. The investigator said AXA would have needed to begin 
litigation proceedings  and seeking  costs associated with this may have been difficult  to 
recover later down  the line.
The investigator said its not unreasonable for AXA to attempt to keep costs to a minimum, 
and as a result try to resolve a claim without the support of solicitors   which  it did in this 
case. However she thought AXA couldve been  more proactive when chasing Insurer  A, 
such as using other methods of contact. And if it had done  so, she felt it may have received 
a response earlier than it did.
Our investigator said she recognised that Mr M had chased AXA several times himself for a 
response, and this wouldve been frustrating for him alongside having to wait some time for 
the resolution. However she felt in the circumstances AXAs  apology  and £150  offer of 
compensation was a fair outcome for this. So she didnt ask AXA to do anything  further.
Mr M responded to say he felt the investigators comments were  biased. And he raised 
concerns about  the way that AXA had handled  his complaint. Because  Mr M disagreed,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN93810492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Under ICOBS 8.1 AXA must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Its not in dispute  that AXA hasnt handled  this claim as promptly  as it should have done. And 
it recognised it could have been  more proactive when seeking confirmation  about liability  
from Insurer A. And as our investigator  has said, it seems AXA hasnt provided appropriate 
information on the progress of the claim  leading to Mr M having to chase AXA to find out 
what was happening.
So I have  to consider the impact of these  mistakes, and whether AXA needs  to do more  than 
it has to put things right as a result.
I can appreciate Mr M would have been  frustrated this claim wasnt settled immediately, 
particularly given the circumstances around  the accident. But AXA would have always  
needed confirmation from Insurer A that it wasnt contesting the accident  before being able 
to close the claim  regardless of whether this was a straightforward liability  issue. 
So while I recognise  AXA couldve done more, I dont think its fair to hold it solely 
responsible for the delays or lack of responses  from Insurer A. AXA did regularly contact 
Insurer A to confirm its position  on liability. And I think it was Insurer  A that caused the 
overall delay in this case. I say this because  it repeatedly failed to respond to AXAs  
numerous requests,  and it was ultimately  this that stopped the claim being progressed as it 
should have.
As AXA didnt receive a response, an alternative solution to chasing Insurer A could have 
been to start litigation. The policy says AXA has full control of the claim  so it would be its 
decision to settle  this as it sees fit. And in this case it chose to continue chasing Insurer  A. I 
agree with our investigator that litigation  would  have likely been more costly,  and so I can 
understand why it didnt  pursue this  especially given the third party had admitted liability.  
In any case, Im not persuaded that this would have necessarily resulted in a quicker  
resolution than its course of action to continue chasing Insurer A.
So overall in the circumstances I think AXA couldve done  more to chase Insurer A. But Im 
not persuaded it was responsible for the majority  of the delays in this case. And I think the 
£150 AXA has offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M has also complained about  the way that AXA has handled his complaint. This is not a 
regulated activity and therefore is not something I am able to consider.
Ref: DRN93810493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9381049