K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct,  failed to give him the correct  
cash equivalent for an account  switch incentive gift.
background
Mr C says he switched his account to first direct as he wanted  to take advantage of its 
account switch  incentive gift, which was a set of headphones from a company I will call B. 
He says those  headphones  were  unavailable and first direct  offered a set of headphones  
from a company I will call S. Mr C says those headphones were valued at £299 but they 
couldnt be delivered either. He says first direct  paid him a cash equivalent  for the 
headphones from B of £170 but he should be entitled to £299.
first direct says the original B headphones were valued at £150 but its suppliers couldnt 
deliver them. It accepts  it offered headphones from S but agreed to pay Mr C £170  for the 
headphones and £30 compensation for the inconvenience he was caused by the delays. first 
direct says Mr C agreed to that amount and will not pay anymore than it has.
Mr C brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  first direct had dealt fairly with 
it. The investigator didnt  think Mr C had lost any money as a result of what happened  and 
that first direct wasnt  obliged to pay any more money than it had. The investigator thought  
the compensation for the delay was fair and reasonable.
Mr C doesnt accept  that view and says first direct entered  into a legally binding  contract  with 
him which its breached.  He says he should be entitled to an equivalent payment of the value 
of the headphones  from S valued at £299.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the online conversation between Mr C and first direct and can see that Mr C 
told it that the reason he switched the account  was for the B headphones. I appreciate  Mr 
Cs disappointment in those circumstances. But I think first direct has acted fairly by 
apologising for that and the delays. And by paying  Mr C £170  for the headphones  which I 
think were valued  at £150 and which were the subject of the original agreement. So I cant 
see any reason why Mr C cant now buy the headphones he wanted himself.
I appreciate Mr C says he then chose the headphones from S which he says were valued at 
£299 and so he should be entitled to that amount. Whilst Im sorry to disagree  with Mr C, I 
dont think that is the case. Ive not seen any evidence  of the value of the headphones  made 
by S. But in any event  I dont think Mr C has lost out financially as a result  of whats 
happened and the original  agreement  was not for those headphones but for those from B. 
I understand that Mr C says he has a contract thats  legally binding.  But Im satisfied that 
issue would  need  to be decided by a court.  For the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied that 
first direct has acted fairly be making a fair cash payment instead of providing headphones.
There is no doubt that there were delays in this complaint and although  first direct  wasnt 
directly responsible for them  I think its suppliers were. So I think first direct  has acted fairly 
Ref: DRN92053462be accepting responsibility for the inconvenience  Mr C was caused.  Im satisfied that the £30 
compensation paid was fair and reasonable and fairly reflects  the level of inconvenience 
caused here.
Overall Im satisfied first direct has dealt fairly  with this complaint  and so I cant  ask it to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9205346