K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr Bs complaint has been  brought to this service  by a claims management company. But 
for ease  I shall refer below to all actions being  taken by Mr B.
background
This complaint is about four short term loans Sunny provided to Mr B between 
September 2018 and November 2018. The loans  were  repayable  by 24 weekly instalments. 
None of the loans have  been repaid and have been sold to a third party.  Mr Bs lending  
history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 1/9/18 Unpaid £400
2. 5/10/18 Unpaid £100
3. 1/11/18 Unpaid £50
4. 20/11/18 Unpaid £50
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
Loan 4 shouldnt have been given to Mr B as he had three other  outstanding  loans  with 
Sunny. And the lender ought to have been  alerted to the possibility  that Mr B might have 
problems managing his money.
Sunny disagreed and responded to say that Mr B only used on average 1.56% of his income  
to repay  each loan and an average  of 6.24% of his income when he borrowed his last loan.  
Sunny said that it allowed consumers  to take up to four loans with it at any one time and it 
also took other loans  into consideration  when  it made its assessment. It said that it used 
information obtained from Mr B about his income and expenditure (including other short term 
loans) and from credit  reference agencies to assess the loans. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Sunny on 13 February 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Mr B the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN95375832But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr B could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Bs complaint.
I noted that Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr Bs declared income for all the loans was around  
£2,875. Mr B had declared his expenditure as between £1,145  and £1,483 for Loans 2 to 4. 
Sunny didnt appear to have recorded  any expenditure for Loan  1 although it had noted 
Mr Bs disposable income as £1,163  for that loan. So it had appeared to have made  an 
assessment of expenditure for that loan.  
Sunny had also said that it checked Mr Bs credit  file before  agreeing  to the loans. It hadnt 
provided us with the results of its credit  checks.  So I couldnt say there  were  any adverse 
matters on its checks  that should  have caused  it additional concerns. But it did note that 
Mr B wasnt  bankrupt  or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt management 
plan at the time hed taken out the loans. And it had said in its final response  letter  that Mr B 
had two or fewer other short term loans when hed taken  out Loan  1. The lender  was also 
aware that Mr B had other  credit  commitments  which hed declared before Loans 2 to 4 of 
between £685  and £878 which it had taken into account when assessing Mr Bs disposable 
income. 
Wed received a credit  report  from Mr B which referred to another  short  term loan with 
another lender which was outstanding before all of Mr Bs loans. But I was aware  that when 
a lender carried out a credit search, the information it saw didnt usually provide the same 
level of detail that a consumers credit  search would  and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A 
Ref: DRN95375833lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers  credit  file, or some  data might  be 
missing or anonymised.  I was also aware  that not all payday  and short term lenders reported 
to the same  credit reference agencies. So this might  have explained  any differences  
between the information provided  by Sunnys credit checks and Mr Bs actual situation.
Mr B had needed to make  total monthly  equivalent  loan repayments  of £112.14 to £179.14 
to Sunny for Loans 1 to 4. Loans 1 to 3 were  still outstanding when hed taken  out Loan 4. At 
the time of applying  for Loan 4, Mr B had repaid  all his other loan repayments  with Sunny on 
the due dates. Id thought the total monthly  repayment amounts for all four loans would have 
appeared relatively modest compared  to Mr Bs declared income. Although  Mr B had up to 
four outstanding loans with Sunny, I didnt think the repayment amounts  on Loans 1 to 4 
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr B financial difficulty.
So given Mr Bs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 1 
to 4 were unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr B provided before Loans 1 to 4 or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 4 to 
Mr B. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr B or Sunny my provisional  decision was that 
I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision to say that it had noted that Id said in my 
provisional decision that Id not received details of its credit  checks. So for completeness  it 
had sent us its Loan Datasheet which contained the results of its credit checks  for each of 
the loan applications.
Mr B hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive reviewed the information in Sunnys Loan Datasheet about its credit checks. I cant  see 
any adverse information  in those checks that I think should have caused additional concerns 
to Sunny.
Otherwise I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN95375834Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9537583