K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about how Santander UK Plc administered her account.  She also complains 
it did not include details  of her account when it responded to her Subject Access Request  
(SAR).
background
Ms Hs account details were merged  with those of another customer  for a number of years.  
She complained about this three times.  Each time Santander said it had made a mistake in 
doing it and said it had put things  right. Ms H sent Santander a SAR.  Initially  it didnt include 
details of her account in its response. But it has now done so.
Santander explained it couldnt tell why it had merged her information like this. It also 
accepted that it had told her twice incorrectly that it had put things right when  it had not. 
However, it confirmed on the third occasion  that it had sorted out the problem and had found 
out what had gone wrong  on the other occasions.  It explained that it hadnt processed her 
SAR correctly that is why, at first, it didnt include her account  details.  It said in total it had 
awarded her £515 for this series of mistakes. It thought it had done enough to put things 
right and wasnt prepared  to go further.
Dissatisfied Ms H came to us.
Our investigator looked into things for her. He didnt recommend upholding Ms Hs 
complaint. He went through all the mistakes  one by one and looked at the explanations 
provided by Santander. He concluded  Santander  had let Ms H down with its behaviour  but 
the payments  it had offered and paid were sufficient to make up for it.
Santander accepted our investigators conclusions. Ms H did not. In summary, she repeated 
her previous  stance and asked that an ombudsman  review her complaint. Ms H also raised 
some new matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Ms H has complained about the same mistake  with merging her records  on three separate  
occasions. Twice Santander has told her it made  a mistake but it has put it right. Only for her 
to find out at a later date, that this was not so. To make matters worse it was largely  down to 
her own persistence that she has reached this point now. I can well understand why her 
confidence in Santander might be dented. I can also understand why she might  want  some 
very concrete answers about why things went so wrong. 
She seems most interested  in why the merging happened and precisely when it happened.  
But Santander cant answer the first question and has seemingly given her inconsistent 
information about the second question.
Ref: DRN97735982However, based on everything  Ive got available to me the merging  did happen more than 
six years  ago, Santander has been consistent about  that. Santanders records it seems  do 
not go back far enough to show why or how the merging happened. Banks are not required 
to retain  records of transactions indefinitely. The law sets down a period of up to six years  for 
most transactions.  So I do not find it surprising that the bank has been unable to trace  this 
information. It follows Santander has no way of answering the question, and in these 
circumstances, I cant  make  it.
It is not ideal  that Ms H has been given inconsistent  information  about when the merging 
happened. Santander says now, this happened in 2011. But Ms H says she has been  told in 
the past this happened  in either 2006  or 2007. We questioned Santander about this. It cant 
say why Ms H was given  this inconsistent information. It can only tell us based on the 
information it has now it believes  that 2011  is when  the merging took place.  Again  it seems 
due to the passage of time and because  the profiles  have  now been split leaving no trace of 
the incorrect merge it can tell her and us no more about this. I have  no reason to doubt  what 
it has told us. It follows,  I think  there would be nothing to be gained by asking  it more  about 
this. I realise that is unlikely to be what Ms H wanted to hear.
Given the number  of mistakes it had made  in the past Ms H might have hoped  that 
Santander would have got to grips with her SAR the first time of asking. But it didnt.  It made 
a mistake with it as Ive noted above.  However, it has now sent her the information about her 
account that she wanted.
In total Santander tells us it has made  payments to Ms H of £515.  Ms H has not told us this 
is incorrect. While I can appreciate that she remains dissatisfied, I also think  in all the 
circumstances, Santanders  has paid enough. It follows I dont think  Ive got any proper basis  
to ask it to take any further action.
Ms H has now also raised new questions about  information in the SAR. This is a new matter 
and has not been considered by Santander in its final response to Ms H or investigated  
within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this matter  in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9773598