K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that PDL Finance  Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to her irresponsibly.
background
I attach my provisional decision dated 20 June 2019, which  forms part of this final decision 
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I intended to uphold Miss Gs complaint in part. I invited both parties to provide any further 
evidence or comments they may have by 27 June  2019 before I reached a further  decision.
Miss G and Mr Lender have told us that they nothing  further to add.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
As neither party has sent me anything further  to review, then I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision on 20 June 2019. 
I uphold Miss Gs complaint for Loans  3 to 6. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  is to do
I have decided that Mr Lender should not have given Miss G some  of the loans, so its not 
right that Miss G should  have to pay interest  or charges on these, or have them affect her 
credit file in a negative  way. I direct that Mr Lender should do as follows:
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Miss G in respect  of Loans 3 to 6 
inclusive; and
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loans from Miss Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest and it must  
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 20 June 2019, I uphold  
Miss Gs complaint in part. 
PDL Finance  Limited trading as Mr Lender  should  put things right for Miss G in the way 
I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision on or before 28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN92608972Rachael Williams
ombudsman
provisional decision extract appears on the next page
Ref: DRN92608973the main  part of my provisional decision dated 20 June 2019
background
Mr Lender has sent to us some details about  the agreements and approved loans. I have done a brief 
loan table which appears here. 
loan approved amountrepaid sums
(rounded)repaid dates
1 18 July 2013 £300 £475  $ 23 August 2013
2 7 September 2013 £500 £667 14 September 2013
3 7 October 2013 £650 £862 25 October 2013
4 27 October 2013 £200 £277 26 November 2013
5 6 December  2013 £350 £801   $$$ 26 March 2014
6 21 April 2014 £300 £459   $$ 29 July 2014
$ = rollover applied  
$$ = two rollovers applied
$$$ = three rollovers applied 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint in April 2019 and came  to an opinion  that Mr Lender 
should put things right for Miss G for Loans 2 to 6. Mr Lender said that it wanted to know more 
information about what this service would  have recommended  by way of checks for this series of loan 
applications by Miss G. 
A second opinion was sent. Mr Lender was not content  and criticised it by saying: Rather  than using 
an expenditure assessment  based on testament  and probability, we request that you would consider 
the expenditure assessment  declared by Miss G at the time of her application.
A third opinion was sent in May 2019 by a second adjudicator with some additional  points included 
but the same outcome. 
Both parties have  asked that an ombudsman look at the case. Miss G requested it because  she 
wished the matter to be accelerated to a conclusion. Mr Lender  requested it because  it does not 
accept our adjudicators  opinion as it says it was a templated  view and not a proper assessment.
From Miss Gs response  to our adjudicators  view I understand that she takes no issue with the non-
uphold opinion in relation  to Loan 1 and so I do not plan to review that loan. 
The complaint remains unresolved for Loans 2 to 6 inclusive and so has been passed to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. The key element  was 
that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a number of different things,  
including how much  was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Ref: DRN92608974Mr Lender says that it carried out credit checks. I have seen  a summary of the results which show a 
credit score which out of context means very little. Included in the summary were no other real details. 
So I attach little weight  to the details. But what I do gather from this is that credit checks were carried  
out before each loan approval.  And based  on what it saw from this it decided to lend to Miss G as a 
result.
Miss G applied for the loans and Mr Lender has told us that Miss G declared that she was living at 
home with her parents, working  full time, and her net monthly income was £1,440. From  recent letters 
from Mr Lender  it sought  to demonstrate to us that Miss G had declared  very little in the way of 
expenditure and therefore it proceeded to evaluate her on the basis that her expenditure  was £150 for 
Loans 2 and 3 and £295 for Loans  4 and 5. For Loan 6 the declared  expenditure according to 
Mr Lenders submissions was £700.  What  this would have meant is that for the earlier loans it would 
have appeared to Mr Lender that she had a high level of disposable income.  
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for a sum of £500, the repayments for which  were £667 and that can be calculated  as 
being about 46% of her declared  net monthly income. So it represented a significant  proportion of her 
net salary. I think that alone would have been enough  to alert Mr Lender that maybe additional checks  
ought to have  been carried out. So I would  have  expected that it knew of her income and regular  
expenditure and financial  commitments as declared  together with knowledge of any outstanding short 
term loan commitments (STL) she may have had at the time in September 2013.
 
Mr Lenders detailed  credit  check results  have not been sent but I have looked  at Miss Gs personal  
credit file. It is dated November 2018 and so should cover the period from December  2012 to 
November 2018. 
Whilst I appreciate  that it may not reveal the same sort of information and detail a credit bureau check 
set of results would reveal it is a fairly  good source of information  or me to see what sort of financial 
position Miss G found  herself in at that time. From that I can see Miss G took an instalment  loan with 
another well-known lender (Lender X) on the same  day as she took this Loan 2. But as it was the 
same day I do not think it was likely that Mr Lender would have been aware  of that commitment. And 
so I have discounted it. 
So I turn to Miss Gs regular expenditure. Our adjudicator has suggested  that its likely her 
expenditure over a month was higher  than the £150  Mr Lender has told us it was, and I have to agree.  
But I do not plan to use all of the expenditure figures our first adjudicator used when assessing 
Miss Gs complaint.  I say this because this information appears to relate to a period later than this 
period of July 2013 and April 2014. And so I do not think was right.
For all of these applications  (including Loan 2) Mr Lender  has told us that Miss G had said to it that 
she was living at home. So what I have decided  to do in fairness to both parties is to take the 
expenditure figures but without the rent and council tax figure.  So that leaves  me with a regular  
expenditure figure of about £578 to cover phone, car and transport, food and child costs. 
So I think that with these figures factored in which  is the best I can make of the information available 
to me, then it would have  looked as though  Miss G could have afforded Loan 2. I do not plan to 
uphold this part of Miss Gs complaint.
I do not have any bank statements for this period from Miss G and it is open to her to obtain these  
from her bank (even though the account was closed  last year) and send them to me. 
If either party wishes to send me additional  documents or evidence then I will review  the complaint  in 
a months time. 
Ref: DRN92608975Loans 3 to 6
From Loan 3 onwards  I consider that checks proportionate to the loans  applied for warranted  a full 
financial review of Miss Gs financial situation.
I plan to use the same  regular expenditure and financial  commitments figure  of £578 as outlined  
above. And using her personal credit file I can see that Miss G was regularly  borrowing from other 
payday lenders and instalment (high-cost)  loan lenders.  These included  Lender X but also at least  
three other lenders as well. Often  Miss G took more than one short term loan in a month as well as 
these from Mr Lender. Her declared income  was £1,440. 
I have not got anything to verify that income as £1,440 each month but as I know that Mr Lender had 
carried out credit searches its likely that they had verified her income at around that level. So I will 
proceed on that basis.
Miss G has mentioned gambling to us and to Mr Lender. In its Final Response Letter to her when  she 
first complained to it, the reply included  the following: 
If you would have  made us aware [sic] a change in your mental  health or that you had a 
gambling habit, your loan applications would have not been approved due to not meeting our 
lending criteria.
I have nothing  to know if this was the case and so unless  I receive more  to show me this I am not able 
to make any findings in relation to Miss Gs gambling.
But I do not think that it is necessary as the short  term loan commitments I have  seen for Miss G from 
7 September 2013 through to 1 April 2014 with Mr Lender and other lenders makes me conclude very 
easily that Miss G was not in a position to be able to afford  the loans  from Mr Lender. A responsible 
lender is not likely to have  lent to Miss G in those circumstances.
I am planning  to uphold Miss Gs complaint in relation to Loans 3 to 6 inclusive. 
Because I am planning  to decide that Mr Lender should not have given Miss G some  of the loans, its 
not right that Miss G should have to pay interest or charges on these, or have them affect  her credit 
file in a negative  way. I am planning to direct  that Mr Lender should  do as follows:
refund any interest and charges already  paid by Miss G in respect of Loans 3 to 6 inclusive; 
and
apply 8% simple  interest  per year to any interest and charges refunded from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  payment information about the loans from Miss Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest and it must  give Miss G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
end of extract 
Ref: DRN9260897