K820x#14complaint
Mr B says funds have been moved from his ISA with TSB Bank plc (TSB), and he didnt 
authorise the transfer of any of those funds.  He complains TSB wont refund to his ISA the 
value of the transferred funds.  
background
The transactions, from his ISA, Mr B disputes he should be held liable for were all transfers  
of monies to his cash account. Indeed, theres a long history of funds being transferred out of 
the ISA to his cash account in the same manner. The transfers were  made  by use of online  
banking but Mr B originally insisted  to TSB he didnt  have  online banking set up. Mr B hasnt 
explicitly, though,  identified all transactions he disputes. 
The investigator found, from TSBs records, online  banking was set up for Mr Bs accounts  in 
2016. It also explained the username for online banking was a personalised, self-selected 
one rather than a set of numbers  randomly  generated by the bank. This meant the username 
would most  likely have  been set up by Mr B, which Mr B later accepted. 
Additionally, as the username was self-selected  it wouldnt have been posted to Mr B 
meaning it couldnt have been  intercepted in the post by a fraudster. Regardless, Mr B says 
he doesnt use online banking  but if this is the case,  there remains no explanation as to how 
a third party was able to gain knowledge  of the username and password, log in to his 
account, with access  to memorable information,  and carry out transactions. 
The investigator also said even if a third party had set this account up without Mr Bs 
knowledge, it seemed  unlikely  they would wait before transacting fraudulently.
The investigator also noted online banking records showed other transfers  were  made  from 
Mr Bs ISA to his cash account,  prior to the ones which  Mr B has said he disputes. The 
records showed a number of those transfers were carried out using the same  device  that 
was used for the transfers Mr B disputed.  And the bank identified that Mr B reported the 
disputed transactions  using  the same device  used to make disputed  payments.
So, all of this made it difficult for the investigator to understand how Mr B has contested only 
certain transfers to his cash  account; how he says he doesnt use online banking; indeed, 
how it could be safely concluded Mr B didnt authorise the transfers from his ISA to his cash  
account.
The investigator did initially go on to mention,  as regards  the removal  of funds subsequently 
from Mr Bs cash account, he was unable to perceive how someone other than Mr B was 
able to carry out those cash  withdrawals without  his consent. I refer to this only briefly  
however because Mr B has clearly  stated he doesnt dispute withdrawing cash  from the cash  
account, financed  by transfers from the ISA, himself.
Of course,  given the majority of the transfers  made form the ISA remitted  funds  to the cash 
account, and Mr B doesnt dispute  withdrawing  cash from the cash  account,  there  was the 
issue for the investigator  of where  Mr B had actually suffered  a loss. 
There was a suggestion made  that TSBs IT issues from earlier  in 2018 may have played a 
part in Mr B being able to be defrauded.  But theres no evidence  available  that the issues  
Ref: DRN93254862from many  months before the disputed  transactions led to the disputed  transactions being 
made.
 
Taking everything into account,  the investigator  wasnt persuaded a third party  had been  
able to gain access  to Mr Bs online banking, and carry out all the disputed transactions.  He 
didnt recommend TSB had to refund the value of the disputed  transactions.   
Finally, the investigator  noted TSB had closed Mr Bs account  but he said the bank was 
entitled to do this, it being able to end its banking relationship if it wished.
Mr B doesnt  agree  with the view of the investigator  and has asked an ombudsman to review  
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B continues to dispute the manner in which the balance  on his ISA has depleted, while 
not actually disputing any transaction on his cash account. He maintains hes never  used the 
online banking facility.  He therefore didnt transfer funds into the cash account and he 
remains suspicious about the banks IT problems  and how this may have impacted the 
security of his account.  
Ive carefully considered  all Mr B has said about the extent  to which  hes used the online 
banking facility thats operational for his accounts.  Mr B is very clear  hes not made the 
online transfers between  his ISA and the cash account.
But, and I dont need to repeat all  the investigator has previously  set out for Mr B, the 
evidence presented to me in the form of things like how the online banking  facility was set up 
and the same device  being recorded  for both disputed transactions  and the report of fraud 
leave it impossible for me to conclude its more likely Mr B has been the victim of fraud  and 
not made the transfers from the ISA  than he made the transfers himself.
Theres no evidence the security of Mr Bs ISA was compromised as a result of TSBs IT 
problems. Its also the case  the vast majority  of the debits to the ISA were  made  by way of 
transfer from Mr Bs account to his cash account   he accepts he made  a few cash  
withdrawals himself at the counter - the spending  from which  he doesnt dispute as his.
Finally, the timing of the disputed transactions, particularly in relation to when online banking 
was established,  and the fact funds were simply moved to another of Mr Bs accounts, in this 
case, are not obvious indicators of Mr B being  a victim of fraud.
All the evidence suggests to me Mr B is more likely than not to have made the transfers from 
the ISA, going  on to spend the funds hes transferred once hes done so. In any event  
though, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, given the disputed transactions  only moved 
funds from one of his accounts to another he held, it might well have not been appropriate 
for Mr B to receive a refund to his ISA, even if he didnt make those transfers, given he 
benefitted from spending those same funds  after they were removed by him from the cash  
account.
Ref: DRN93254863As regards  the closure of the account, a bank is entitled to end its banking relationship with a 
customer by closing accounts they hold with it; just the same as a customer  of a bank may 
decide to end the relationship themselves. No explanation  is required  to be provided  and I 
cant fairly and reasonably  require the bank  to offer banking services simply because  the 
customer wants to remain a customer; or for the bank to provide the explanation Mr B seeks.
That said,  I would expect  a bank to exercise its commercial  judgement, to close  an account,
legitimately. A bank  adopts procedures for administrating an account, allowing access  to it
and for dealing with its closure. And TSB has such procedures in place. 
In this matter, Im not aware  TSB failed to follow its own procedures in closing the account. I 
therefore cant fairly and reasonably say the closure  of the account,  ultimately,  was 
inappropriate; nor carried out by TSB in a way other than I would expect it to in compliance  
with good banking practice. 
my final decision
In light of everything Ive said,  I dont  require TSB to refund to Mr B the value of the 
transactions he disputes making from his ISA. And I award no compensation to Mr B.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9325486