K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc unfairly cancelled her overdraft  and recorded  
adverse data in her credit file.
background
Mrs P had a current account with HSBC which had an arranged overdraft limit of £1,750. In 
April 2018 Mrs P exceeded her arranged overdraft and HSBC temporarily agreed an 
unarranged overdraft to allow her to cover cash withdrawals and other debits from the 
account.
In August  2018  Mrs P started to receive  notifications by letter, phone and text that items 
were being  returned unpaid  because  she had exceeded her arranged  overdraft by too much.
Letters were  sent to Mrs P throughout September and October 2018 advising Mrs P to get in 
touch with HSBC  to clear  her unarranged  overdraft.  On 30 November  2018  she was sent a 
letter explaining  her overdraft had been  cancelled and she should contact HSBC to arrange  
repayment.
On 12 January 2019 HSBC sent a pre-demand  letter advising she needed to make a 
payment to bring  her balance within her arranged overdraft limit. Mrs P made  a payment of 
£520 on 31 January 2019,  believing this would clear  the outstanding  sum. However,  on 
9 February 2019  HSBC  wrote to Mrs P with a final demand asking her to clear  the full 
overdraft balance by 26 February 2019. 
Mrs P complained. She said shed paid the amount stated in the pre-demand letter  so she 
believed shed done what she needed  to do to avoid having to pay the overdraft in full. 
HSBC told her that interest  of £27.18 had been added to her balance on 24 January 2019,  
meaning she hadnt paid enough  to clear the unarranged overdraft. Mrs P said she wouldve 
paid this extra sum if shed known. HSBC  said it would  have  to close  the account if the 
balance wasnt cleared by 26 February  2019. As Mrs P wasnt able to clear the balance, the 
account was closed and passed  to the recoveries  department.
Mrs P remained unhappy  and referred her complaint to this service.  She said shed been in 
financial difficulty and was struggling with her health.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Mrs P was told she needed to 
ensure her balance was brought  below her arranged overdraft limit. So even  though shed 
paid the sum specified on a letter, it was her responsibility to check that this was enough to 
clear the unarranged overdraft. She noted that Mrs P wouldve received statements showing 
the balance and the interest that had been  added. The investigator was also informed by 
HSBC that Mrs P had logged into her internet banking  on 1 February 2019. So, she wouldve 
seen that she needed to make a further  payment  to bring her balance  under her arranged 
overdraft limit before HSBC took any further action with the account.
The investigator accepted Mrs P was in financial difficulty  and had health  problems  at the 
time, but as she hadnt told HSBC about this it wasnt in a position to make  any other 
arrangements with her before it decided to close the account.  She noted  HSBC had made 
several attempts  to contact Mrs P by phone but she hadnt returned any calls.
Ref: DRN92270602Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to consider the case. She said she wasnt in the wrong and 
wouldve paid the extra amount if shed  been  told about it. Mrs P didnt think it was fair for 
HSBC to close her account and record  adverse  information in her credit  file for such  a small 
amount of money.  She said shed  had to sell her house and this would impact  her ability to 
rent a property so she was effectively being made  homeless.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs P and it leaves  her in a difficult  position, but 
I dont think HSBC has treated her unfairly.
Mrs P believes it was unfair for HSBC to cancel  her overdraft and close her account because 
shed done what  it had asked her to do in its letter of 12 January  2019. Ive seen a copy  of 
this letter,  which said Mrs P needed  to pay the sum specified in the enclosed notice. The 
notice showed  Mrs Ps overdraft limit of £1,750 and said she was overdrawn by £518.39. 
Underneath this, it said:
You need to make  payment  to bring the balance of your account within  your arranged 
overdraft limit 
On 31 January 2019 Mrs P made a payment of £520 to her account  based on the 
information provided in the letter. However, she hadnt appreciated that interest had been 
added to her balance, meaning  she was actually overdrawn  by £545.57. So, her payment 
wasnt enough to bring her balance within her arranged overdraft limit.
Mrs P said she shouldve  been told about  this additional interest. But I dont think its 
reasonable to have  expected HSBC  to tell Mrs P each time her balance  increased. I think 
she ought to have checked  her balance before making the payment to ensure she would  be 
bringing it within her agreed  limit, which it what the letter  said she needed to do. Although 
the letter specified that she was overdrawn by £518.39, this was the sum owed on 
12 January 2019.  I think Mrs P ought  to have  known the balance  couldve increased by the 
time she made the payment  on 31 January  2019.
I say this because  when Mrs P exceeded  her arranged overdraft limit in April 2018, HSBC 
sent her a letter outlining how interest  would be charged and the other charges that would be 
applied whilst she remained above  her agreed limit. This information was repeated  in several  
letters sent to Mrs P in August and October  2018.  So, I think  Mrs P ought to have known that 
even if she wasnt using  her account,  charges would be applied that would increase her 
balance. She also had access to her statements  and balance online, which wouldve showed 
her balance had increased by the time she made  the payment. I note that Mrs P used  her 
online banking on 1 February 2019,  so she likely  wouldve  seen that her overdraft still 
exceeded her agreed limit on that date. So, I think she had a further opportunity  to clear the 
extra balance before HSBC issued a final demand.
I appreciate that Mrs P had every intention  (and also couldve afforded) to clear the 
unarranged overdraft in January 2019. But ultimately I dont think  HSBC  treated Mrs P 
unfairly when it issued the final demand for full repayment of the overdraft on 
9 February 2019  and closed the account when this wasnt repaid. It provided Mrs P with a 
number of opportunities to clear the unauthorised  overdraft and clearly informed her about 
Ref: DRN92270603the consequences of not clearing it in full in several letters, including  the letter  sent on 
12 January 2019.
I know Mrs P was going through a difficult time and didnt feel she was able to deal with the 
overdraft issue until January 2019.  HSBC  encouraged Mrs P to contact it if she was having 
financial difficulties or repaying her overdraft in a number of the letters it sent her. It also sent 
text messages and made multiple phone calls to her. However, Mrs P didnt call HSBC until 
14 February 2019, by which time the decision to cancel  the overdraft had been made. 
Without HSBC knowing  about Mrs Ps circumstances, I dont think it couldve  been expected  
to do anything differently  at the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9227060