K820x#14complaint
Ms B says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card. She says 
she never agreed to the cover and it was added without permission.
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Ms B disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Id like to say that I certainly  dont doubt that Ms Bs recollections of being mis-sold  the PPI 
are honest  and genuine. However, these events  are from quite a few years ago and because 
this is the case,  weve  got very little to refer to. 
Nevertheless, weve seen  a number of very similar  sales  to this one and weve spoken at 
length to the company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were 
generally used.  
Ms B told us she thought the PPI was sold at a meeting. However FICL records show Ms B 
took out the store card in December 2000  at a high street sore,  but she didnt get PPI on it 
until July 2001,  when it was sold to her during a phone call. 
The FICL description of how this sale took place is in accordance  with my understanding  of 
how many  consumers bought this type of PPI with store cards at around that time but it also 
means Ms B would  have had her card for around  6 months  without any PPI. Because  of this, 
I think shed have been able to see PPI cover wasnt compulsory  or something she needed 
to have with her store card if she didnt  want  to. In short, I think shed have been  able to see 
it was optional.
Theres no recording of the call and FICL  doesnt  have  any notes from it. But I dont think  
thats surprising  given that this all took place around  17 years ago and businesses  arent  
required to keep records indefinitely. I also think  the PPI would have started showing up on 
her monthly statements. And if she hadnt  agreed to the PPI I think  shed have wanted  to 
know what the charges  were for.
These things, taken together, make  me think its more likely Ms B agreed  to add the PPI 
policy to her store card, back in 2001.
Ref: DRN90065812My experience is that FICL provided  a non-advised  sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear  information for Ms B to decide  for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I simply cant say whether this was done  because theres nothing to refer to. But I 
think its just as likely that important information  was given   as it wasnt.  And I think  its fair 
for me to assume Ms B would have  at least been  sent something by the third party  insurer  
explaining the cover  and what  it did.
Ms B told us she was self-employed and sometimes we do see situations where this might  
make claiming on the PPI difficult. But Ive checked  this particular policy  from that time and I 
dont think this would have been the case for Ms B.
So she was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major exclusions we tended 
to see in some of these  policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively  expensive,  but 
the benefits the policy offered gave  more protection than most credit cards. For example, if 
shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her 
outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work or until all the balance  
was returned to zero. These  benefits  wouldve been in addition  to any other means Ms B 
had in place at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use in her situation. I think 
this could explain why she probably  chose to agree  to it during the call.
For me to uphold Ms Bs complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt  given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I just dont have 
that evidence.  So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy  was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint  and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9006581