K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold to him when he applied for a store card.  
FICL has taken responsibility for this sale so Ill refer to it throughout this decision.  
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this complaint  and thought  that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr 
S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover  and looking at Mr S 
circumstances, I think  he met these rules.
Next Ive looked at whether FICL made  it sufficiently  clear  that the PPI was optional. Mr S 
took out the card in store in 2002. At that stage he declined the PPI policy  and this is evident 
from his card application form. FICL has told us that its records  indicate  Mr S took out the 
policy during a subsequent phone call. Mr S has told us that he doesnt  remember  the phone 
call, but that he didnt  need the PPI. Without  hearing  a recording of the call, he doesnt 
believe he would have  chosen the policy. This sale took place many  years ago and it 
appears that the account has also been closed for a long time. Its not unusual  in such  cases  
for information to be incomplete or missing. Ive had to take account  of this in reaching my 
decision. 
From what  we know about this type of sale, the sales scripts used by FICL at the time 
suggest that the sales representatives were prompted to give customers  a choice about  
whether or not to take out the policy. So during the call, it seems likely that it would have 
been made clear  to Mr S that he had a choice about taking out the PPI. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr S has told us. But without stronger evidence, Im not 
satisfied that he didnt need  the PPI, nor do I think its unlikely he would have bought it. So 
overall, I think in this case its most likely  that FICL made it clear  that the policy was optional  
and Mr S chose to take it out. 
Next, FICL didnt recommend the PPI cover with the card so this means it wasnt required to 
make sure it was suitable for Mr S. But it was required to give him information  that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make the decision for himself about whether  or not 
to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN91409092Mr S told us that he didnt  need the PPI and that if hed lost his job or been made 
unemployed, his parents would have  helped him. Ive no doubt that his parents would have 
wanted to help Mr S, but the degree to which they could  have  done  so would have 
depended on their circumstances at the time.  So their help wasnt guaranteed and cant  be 
regarded as a substitute for the PPI. 
Mr S told us that at the time of the sale he would  have  had protection from sickness and 
redundancy from his employer. He informed us that if he was too ill to work or lost his job 
hed have been entitled to receive  pay for between six and twelve  months. 
From the available information  we know that the cost of this policy  was no more than £1.00  
per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance on Mr S card. This was more  expensive than 
some other policies weve seen, but it also paid out a higher-than-average  benefit  of 15% for 
accident, sickness and unemployment claims.  Ive seen nothing that suggests Mr S would 
have found these monthly charges  unaffordable  and the benefits would have paid out in 
addition to any other means  he already  had in place at the time. 
So if FICL had provided Mr S with clearer information, overall I think its unlikely that it would 
have put him off taking out the policy. On balance, I dont think having better information 
would have changed his mind about  taking out the PPI and so I dont think FICL needs to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S, but for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9140909