K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Canada  Square Operations Limited,  trading at the time of sale as Egg, mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Ill refer mainly  to CSOL for consistency.
background
Mr T couldnt remember much about the sale, but CSOL  says its records  show  he bought 
the PPI in 2000 over the internet with a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. But Mr T has already received some money back  for the commission  
CSOL received  from selling him the PPI. Mr T still thinks  he was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place and so disagrees with the adjudicator. His complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Weve also been  asked to look at a number of very similar PPI sales  in relation to CSOL,  
trading as Egg and as a result of this weve obtained a lot of information  about how it 
normally sold PPI over the internet. It isnt unusual that we dont have access  to Mr Ts 
original paperwork after such a long time,  but we asked to see screen shots of the web-
based form that Mr T would have  used when completing his application  back  in 2000.  Ive 
looked at these images and they correspond with the many  others  that Ive seen. 
I think when he was completing his on-line application, Mr T would have been given two 
choices in relation  to the PPI. I think he would  have had to make a choice  before  being 
allowed to progress to the next stage of the form. Consumers were usually given two 
options - one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to.
I believe that Mr T selected the yes option  for the PPI to be added and I therefore think it is 
much more likely  that he made  an active selection to buy the policy.
In addition to this I can see from Mr Ts monthly  credit card statements that he began to 
have charges on the card for credit card repayment  protector . I think this strongly shows  
that he asked  to have the PPI cover and would have been  able to see it had been  added.  I 
think if he hadnt ever asked for the PPI he would  have wanted to know  what these charges 
were for.
So I think the evidence  shows  Mr T asked for the PPI policy to be added.
This was an internet application and so I think Mr T wouldve made his way through  the on-
line process without  any advice from CSOL. But CSOL still needed to provide information  
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mr T could  make  an informed choice about 
whether or not to go ahead  and buy the PPI.
Ref: DRN98850242I note that before making the on-line selection, the application web-page  contained brief 
details about the cost of the cover. I also think there was a link to view the policys  terms 
and conditions. I acknowledge that CSOL couldve possibly provided  more information at the 
point of sale, but I dont think this would have changed anything Mr T actually did.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ts situation.  I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
He told us that he was entitled to sickness cover and some  other  benefits  through his job. 
Ive thought carefully about these things  but this was a non-advised sale so the choice about 
having PPI was for Mr T to make. The PPI would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit  
card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim and this would have been in addition  to 
any other means he had at that time. I also think the cost of the cover was affordable for Mr 
T. So I think this policy was of use.
CSOL has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because when the policy  
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should  have told him about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CSOL has already paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has already paid him for the commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885024