K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Gefion Insurance A/S unfairly declined his commercial motor  insurance 
claim for theft of a vehicle. 
background
Mr S has a motor trade business. In November 2018  one of his vehicles was stolen. He 
made a claim on his Gefion motor  trade  insurance policy. But it was declined. Gefion said for 
accident or theft cover to be in place the policy requires a vehicle to be declared to the 
Motor Insurance  Database (MID). But at the time of the theft the vehicle hadnt been. It 
wasnt declared until a few days later. So it refused to pay the claim. 
Mr S complained to Gefion. He said he had 14 days, from taking possession of a vehicle, to 
add it to the MID. In response Gefion  said Mr S statement of fact and policy terms explained 
theres no accident or theft cover, only third party, until the vehicle  is declared  to the MID. It 
still refused to pay the claim.
 
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. He felt Gefions decision to refuse 
the claim was reasonable. Mr S didnt accept  the assessment.  So the complaint has come  to 
me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Gefion  
pay Mr S claim  or do anything differently.
Mr S policy terms  say any vehicle owned  by him, registered to him or held as stock  for sale 
must be declared to the MID. It says until its declared sections one and two of his policy  will 
be inoperative.
Section one provides cover for accidental damage to a vehicle. Section covers damage or 
loss through fire or theft. So theft isnt covered unless  the stolen vehicle had been declared 
to the MID.  
Unfortunately, from what Ive seen, Mr S car wasnt declared until a few days after the theft. 
He seems to accept that. And according  to the policy terms, at the point it was stolen,  the 
vehicle wasnt covered for theft.  So Gefions refused the claim in line with the policy  terms.
The requirement to declare  such  vehicles is explained on the second page of in Mr S 
statement of fact. Its also set out in the full policy document. 
Gefion says it requires  vehicles to be declared on the MID so it can monitor  the number in a 
policyholders possession. And it says the requirement helps it ensure Mr Ss type of policy  
is being used  as intended. That seems  reasonable to me. So I cant  say Gefion acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by requiring his vehicle  to be declared to the MID.       
According to Mr S hes allowed 14 days to declare a vehicle. But as Ive explained above the 
policy terms dont provide that. They  do refer to 14 days in reference  to vehicles held as 
stock for sale. But it doesnt say he has 14 days to declare those. Instead it says, regardless 
of whether its held for 14 days or more, that type of vehicle must be declared to the MID  
and until it is it wont be covered for accident or theft.. 
Ref: DRN92326452Mr S says its his certificate of insurance thats  important  not the statement of fact and 
policy terms. The certificate does  refer to any motor vehicle owned or in the custody or 
control of Mr S. But it also says refer to the policy  document for full details of the insurance  
cover. That sets out theft cover  isnt in place for a vehicle until its declared to the MID.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Gefion Insurance A/S pay Mr S claim or do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN9232645