K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the general  poor service he got from Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. In particular  he disputes its 
decision on liability and the sum offered to him for his car. Mr W is represented by Ms W.
 
background
Mr W was trying to turn right across a main  road.  He says the traffic  had stopped to let him 
out, but a motor cyclist overtook the stationary cars to Mr Ws right and hit Mr Ws car. Mr W 
and Ms W didnt  think Mr W was at fault,  but Advantage seemed to think he was from the 
start. It settled the motor  cyclists claim without telling them.  Meanwhile,  Mr Ws car was 
assessed, but there was an eight-day delay  in giving him a courtesy  car. Advantage offered 
him £80 for that. When the car was written-off,  Mr W and Ms W didnt think the offer of 
£4,501 for it was enough, as Mr W wanted £5,000. 
Ms W liaised with Advantage  and others  on Mr Ws behalf as the claim was being dealt with. 
She says she faced many poor service issues on Advantages part. They included its 
advisors contacting  Mr W instead of her, and not telling others that she was able to speak on 
Mr Ws behalf. Ms W was told in error  that the car had been repaired. And Ms W and 
Mr W were misinformed  about Advantages liability decision. Advantage offered Mr W a 
further £40 compensation for the latter. It also paid Ms W £100 for the poor service shed 
faced as his representative.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ws complaint. She thought  Advantage had made a 
fair liability decision. She said it took into account  a police report and witness  statements 
taken by them. She thought the cars valuation was low and that Advantage had deducted 
too much  for pre-accident  damage. She thought it should pay £4,604 for the car. She said it 
had dealt with the late provision of a courtesy  car to Mr W fairly.  Although  this wasnt part of 
the initial complaint,  she noted it had paid him £50 for settling late the payment due to a 
finance company.  But she thought it should  pay Mr W a further £110 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage said the pre-accident damage deduction  was worth £525,  but only £350 was 
deducted. It said adverts showed many cars similar to Mr Ws car on sale for far less. It 
thought the overall compensation it had offered was fair. The investigator still didnt think  it 
was clear how the pre-accident damage  deduction  had been  arrived at. As there  was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I think Advantage acted  fairly in dealing with liability. I think it considered  all the evidence,  
including the police  report and witness statements. Under the policy, Advantage may settle 
any claim as it sees fit, as long as it acts reasonably in doing  so. It doesnt have to discuss  or 
agree its decisions  with consumers. But it seems Advantage gave Mr W and Ms W the 
wrong details about liability.  And it didnt tell them the motor cyclists claim had been paid. Its 
claims handler thought  (in error) that Mr W had accepted liability at the start. 
In offering Mr D £4,501  for his car, Advantage relied on the figures set out in three  of the 
national trade guides.  Our investigator also reviewed the trade guide figures, as we think 
thats the best way to establish what a cars  market  value  is. Thats  because  theyre  based 
on extensive research  of likely selling prices. We dont usually find adverts  persuasive.  
Ref: DRN99787322One of the guides Advantages engineer used had a valuation that was out of line with the 
other two, so Ive excluded the valuation in that guide, in line with our usual practice. The 
average of the other two guides  Advantage used was £4,530. Our investigator looked at the 
same out of line guide. The average of the other two guides she used was £4,775. I think 
thats a fair starting point before a deduction for pre-existing  damage  is made.  
Advantages engineer set out why he thought there  was pre-existing damage  to the car and 
where it was located. I think Advantage was entitled  to accept the engineers professional 
view. The sum it amounted to was £525.  We usually say that 50% of a deduction for pre-
existing damage  should  be discounted,  which is around £260  here.  Advantage hasnt 
explained why it deducted £350 from the settlement. Deducting £260  leaves a settlement 
sum of £4,515.  As Advantage  offered Mr W £4,501, which is in line with that figure,  I think its 
settlement figure was reasonable, so I dont think Advantage needs to increase  it. 
Mr W also complained about  various  aspects  of poor service.  Advantage dealt  with the late 
availability of a courtesy car fairly  by offering  him £80. As far as I can see, it also offered him 
£40 for the confusion  around the liability decision   plus £50 for an issue  with the finance 
company. The latter  issue wasnt part of the complaint were considering, so Mr W seems to 
have been paid £120 for the initial  complaint. I think he should be offered a little more.
Advantage paid Ms W £100 for the poor service she faced, but she isnt the complainant 
here. Although she made most of the contact  with Advantage, Mr W knew what was going 
on through her. So he would have been  frustrated as well by the poor service (such  as being 
told the car was ready when it hadnt  even been assessed). Mr W was contacted  directly by 
Advantage, despite Ms W being his representative. And the delay in collecting Mr Ws car 
initially led to a problem  with his finance  company.  He had to deal with that directly.  I think 
Advantage should pay Mr W a further £50 to reflect the general distress and inconvenience 
he faced whilst the claim was ongoing  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Neither party  did so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had any comment  on my 
provisional findings, theres no basis  on which to depart from them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr W a further £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99787323
Ref: DRN9978732