K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In January 2004, Mrs T took out a personal loan and was also sold a single premium PPI 
policy to protect her repayments. Mrs T took out the loan and insurance during a meeting 
with a representative from Nationwide. The loan and PPI policy  both ended in January 2011.
Mrs T believes that Nationwide  mis-sold  her the PPI policy.  She says she was led to believe 
she wouldnt  get the loan without PPI. She says she feels misled  by Nationwide.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.  Here are my reasons:
 I think Nationwide made Mrs T aware  that the PPI was optional and she chose  to 
have it. I say this because, although  I cant be sure what  was discussed  during the 
meeting, I can see on the loan agreement she signed  Nationwide made it clear that PPI 
was optional  and displayed separate costs for it. So, although  I do have regard for what     
Mrs T has said,  I cant fairly say from what I have seen that Nationwide didnt explain 
that it was an optional feature.
 Nationwide says it did not advise Mrs T to take out the policy  but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for her anyway based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances during the 
times of sale. Mrs T was eligible  for it and says she would have had sick pay. But the 
policy would  have  been useful in a time of need  by paying the loan repayments  if she 
was unemployed or if she couldnt work because of accident or sickness.
 If the loan had been repaid early Mrs T would have been given a pro-rata  refund  so 
there were no issues regarding this. So that feature  didnt make the policy unsuitable  for 
her.
 Mrs T was not affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations given  in the terms and 
conditions such  as any to do with a pre-existing medical  condition  for example.
Ref: DRN95167682 The loan agreement  provided for the sale Mrs T signed sets out what she would 
need to borrow  to pay for the PPI, the interest shed be charged on the PPI part of the 
loan, the monthly cost to repay  the PPI loan and the potential total cost of the whole 
loan. So I cant  fairly say that Mrs T wasnt made  aware of the overall  cost.  It seems 
likely to me that he would  have understood what she was paying and I think  it unlikely 
he would have  made a different decision if better information  had been  provided.
On balance, I think Mrs T has not been mis-sold  PPI by Nationwide.  Which means 
Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9516768