K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc in removing 
funds from her account. She says the bank called into question her integrity. To resolve 
matters, Miss H would  like compensation for the trouble and upset caused and the cost of 
having to raise money through other  means.  
background
Miss H was buying a property with a friend. They were short of the money  needed to 
complete the purchase, so a mutual  friend  offered to loan the shortfall, £10,000. I will refer to 
the person loaning the money  as L. 
L transferred the money to Miss H on 21 November 2018. However, on 24 December 2018 
NatWest received a report from Ls bank to say that their customer disputed the payment 
and believed  it had been taken as part of a scam. 
Upon getting the report, NatWest blocked  Miss Hs account and removed access  to the 
funds. Miss H told NatWest that there had been a misunderstanding. She suspected  Ls 
father rather than L had contacted the bank about this. She said L had genuinely  offered  to 
lend her the money and that there wasnt a scam involved. Miss H sent NatWest text 
messages she had received from L before the payment had been made. She said these 
messages proved the arrangement and that the money would  eventually  be repaid.
On 22 January 2019, NatWest returned the funds to L. It said it did so because Ls bank 
hadnt retracted  its report. 
Miss H was distressed  that the money  had been  returned - she didnt think  NatWest had 
listened to her and she felt it had called into question her integrity.  She still needed to 
complete the purchase and asked NatWest  if it could lend her the money. But NatWest  
wasnt willing to provide a short-term loan.  Miss H says she had no alternative but to borrow 
the money from family and friends and sell her belongings at a loss. 
Miss H complained about how NatWest handled  things. However, it didnt accept it had done 
anything wrong. It said it was obliged to take the report  it had received from Ls bank 
seriously. One of our investigators also looked into the complaint but didnt uphold  it. Miss H 
asked that an ombudsman review everything afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances at play here arent specifically covered by the scenarios set out in the 
Credit Payment Recovery Operating Guide issued  by BACS. However, there  are some 
principles there that I think are relevant to NatWests actions. Ive also considered  to what  
extent the banks involved were guided by the apparent need to protect  L as a potentially  
vulnerable consumer.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint  for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN90838812-I can understand why Miss H is upset - this was money she was relying  on. However, 
it is the case that a bank is under  an obligation  to look into a report  about money paid 
in where concerns have been  raised.
-Once NatWest had obtained information from Miss H about the explanation behind 
the funds, I think it should  have  gone  back to Ls bank with those details. But given 
the apparent dispute between the parties,  Id expect  NatWest at least to block  the 
use of the funds in question  until that dispute was resolved. So, the funds  would have 
still been inaccessible to Miss H while the situation  was being sorted out. 
-Given the report that was made, and the fact that L hasnt subsequently agreed to 
give the money to Miss H, it seems likely that Miss H would still have found herself 
having to borrow  money and/or sell possessions to complete her property purchase. 
If Miss H considers this to represent a financial  loss to her, that seems  to me more  
attributable to Ls subsequent unwillingness to release the money rather than to 
NatWests actions.
-Ive not seen anything that leads me to conclude that NatWest has expressed doubt 
over Miss Hs integrity. It appears to me simply to have acted in response to 
information it received  from Ls bank which raised concerns about the transfer. Those  
circumstances were  sufficient to suggest  to NatWest  that it should return  the money,  
at which  point the bank would be entitled to expect  that Miss H and L would be able 
to resolve matters between them. NatWest hasnt recorded any adverse  information  
in relation to Miss H.
I realise Miss H feels very strongly about what happened, but Im not persuaded that 
NatWest needs  to compensate her for what happened. For the reasons set out above, I 
wont be asking NatWest  to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9083881