K820x#14complaint
Mr Z and Ms D complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  them  life insurance.
background
Mr Z and Ms D met with a Barclays mortgage adviser in January 2006. As part of the 
mortgage application process the adviser recommended  Mr Z and Ms D take out a life 
insurance policy.
A mortgage offer was provided to Mr Z and Ms D on 8 February 2006. Under the insurance  
section it said that they werent required to take out any insurance through  Barclays as a 
condition of the mortgage. And that the only insurance they had to take out, but not through  
Barclays, was buildings  insurance.
Mr Z and Ms D set up a life insurance policy with a third party  in April 2006. This policy 
lapsed in May 2010. They  also set up another life insurance policy with the same provider in 
March 2010. This policy lapsed in August 2017.
Mr Z complained to Barclays about the advice they received to take out the life insurance 
policy. He said the adviser recommended they take out cover in order  for the mortgage to be 
approved. And he provided a letter, dated 15 November  2005, from a Barclays  mortgage 
adviser to support this. Mr Z also said that the policy wasnt  required  as he benefitted from 
life cover through his employer.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. They explained that life insurance wasnt  a condition  of 
lending and that this was confirmed in their mortgage offer letter of 8 February 2006. They 
also said that the policy provider had confirmed  the advice to set up the policies was 
provided by other firms. And so they werent  responsible for the sale of the policies.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator acknowledged Mr Zs 
recollection of what happened  along  with the letter of 15 November 2005. But he thought 
Barclays mortgage offer made it clear life insurance wasnt a requirement for it to be 
accepted. He also said that he was more persuaded by the evidence  from the policy provider 
confirming other firms  sold the policies. So he didnt think Barclays were  responsible  and he 
didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mr Z disagreed and so the matter has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale documentation shows the mortgage adviser provided Mr Z and Ms D with a 
recommendation to take out life insurance.  And the letter  of 15 November 2015 says that life 
insurance was a requirement for the mortgage  to be accepted. Im therefore satisfied Mr Z 
and Ms D were advised to take out life cover as part of the mortgage application process. 
What Ive considered  though is whether Barclays are responsible for the policies that were 
set up. Although I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr Z and Ms D, I dont think 
they are and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN98051422The policy provider has confirmed Barclays werent  responsible for the sale of either policy. 
But the policies  were sold by other firms that received commission for setting them up. So 
although I appreciate Mr Z has told us differently,  I think  its more likely that the policy  
providers records accurately confirm who sold them.  It seems  therefore that following the 
recommendation Barclays provided  to Mr Z and Ms D, that they sought advice elsewhere in 
respect of life cover. Because of this I dont think the responsibility  of any alleged  mis-selling 
in respect of these policies lies with Barclays.
I have however considered whether Mr Z and Ms D set up life cover, through  the different 
firm, as a result of what Barclays told them in November 2015   in that it was a requirement 
for the mortgage.  But even if Mr Z and Ms D were misinformed at that time Ive also taken in 
to account what  the mortgage offer, that was subsequently sent, said. And I think this clearly 
set out that the only insurance  required as a condition  of lending was buildings insurance.
I think its reasonable to have expected  Mr Z and Ms D to have read the mortgage offer 
before accepting it. I also think Mr Z ought to have had a greater understanding  of the 
mortgage application process as he was employed  as a financial adviser at the time. So 
upon review of the mortgage offer they shouldve known  life insurance wasnt  required. And 
if they were led to believe otherwise then I think its reasonable for them  to have  questioned  
this at the time. I cant  see that this happened.
I know how strongly Mr Z feels  about this matter  and that he says they relied on what the 
adviser told them. And that as first time buyers  they made sure everything was in place to 
ensure the house purchase  could  be completed - including life insurance as a result of the 
advice they received. But for the reasons  Ive explained I dont think Barclays  are 
responsible for the sale of the life insurance they took out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9805142