K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Ms F arent happy with the way a subsidence  claim under their home insurance 
policy has been handled by Aviva Insurance  Limited. Theyve also complained about 
increases to their insurance premium.
background
Mr F and Ms F say that when Ms F contacted Aviva to make a claim for subsidence,  she 
was told that the damage was settlement and that wasnt covered by their policy.
They also say that the policy excess applying to subsidence  was raised from £1,000  to 
£5,000 without it being brought to their attention. Aviva made a cash  settlement  for the 
subsidence claim after deducting the £5,000 excess.
Theyre not happy that the premium has almost  doubled in the past six years from about 
£2,000 to almost  £4,000. They say Aviva  couldnt  justify to them the reason  for the increase.
They say Avivas loss adjuster  made  a lot of mistakes about their cover  and so they have no 
confidence in them.
They also complained about Avivas method of communicating with them.
Aviva said when Ms F first contacted  it about a potential claim, its claims handler explained 
what subsidence was and Ms F agreed  to get more information about the damage and call 
back. It acknowledged that it could  have asked for more information at the time,  such  as 
photographs of the damage.
Aviva said it had increased their excess for subsidence to £5,000 in 2002 and this was 
made clear in their renewal documents . 
It said the amount  of the premium on renewal  was calculated each year based on its rating 
factors at that time.  In Mr F and Ms Fs case the premium had gone up and down between  
2012 and 2017. It explained that the biggest increase was partly  due to the loss of their 
claims discount (NCD) following a claim in 2015. 
It accepted that its subsidence expert  had made  some administrative errors when dealing 
with the claim and they were compensated for that. 
Aviva apologised that Mr F hadnt  been sent an email  due to a system error.
Aviva offered Mr F and Ms F £100  compensation for the failings in its service. It also said it 
wouldnt charge  a cancellation  fee if Mr F and Ms F wanted to cancel  the policy during the 
term. They didnt accept  the offer of compensation and brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had treated Mr F and Ms F unfairly. As they didnt agree, 
the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94871912Ive listened to Ms Fs call to Aviva about  a potential claim. The claims handler asked 
whether there were any external cracks.  Ms F said she wasnt sure and shed check. Aviva 
explained it needed more information to set up a claim. Ms F appeared to accept that. I dont  
think Aviva  was trying to mislead  Ms F into believing the damage wasnt subsidence  or that 
she wasnt covered by her policy.
I can appreciate that Mr F and Ms F must  have had a shock when  they found that their policy  
excess for subsidence had increased  by £4,000. This is a significant amount. 
Aviva says it told Mr F and Ms F about  this increase  in their renewal  documents.  It said 
Subsidence excess
The excess  for loss or damage to the buildings caused by Subsidence, heave or landslip is 
increased to £5000.
So I cant say that Aviva didnt do anything to bring  this to their attention. I can also see that 
Aviva wrote to Mr F and Ms F before renewal each year.  It told them  their policy  would 
renew automatically unless Mr F and Ms F told it they didnt want to renew.  It asked them to 
check that the cover still met their needs. It enclosed the schedule  and on the second page it 
set out the excess  for a subsidence  claim.  I think its fair to say Mr F and Ms F should have 
read the policy schedule and if they had on the many subsequent  renewals  since, theyd 
have seen what the subsidence excess was.
I can appreciate that Mr F and Ms F were disappointed that their insurance  premium almost 
doubled between  2012 and 2017.  The information  that Aviva has provided to us about how it 
calculated Mr F and Ms Fs premium  is commercially sensitive, so its confidential. This 
means that Im unable  to share it with them. But Id like to reassure them that Ive checked it 
very carefully. And having done so, I think that Aviva priced Mr F and Ms Fs policy  correctly,  
and that the increase in their premium was largely  a result of them  making the subsidence  
claim in 2015. 
The fact that theyd made a claim affected their policy and it also resulted in their NCD being 
reduced from a maximum of five years  to nil on their buildings cover  and to two years  on 
their contents cover.  The premium was also affected by a change in Avivas view of the risk. 
Aviva worked out the chance of certain types  of claim being made in future. 
I should say that its not for me to tell Aviva how much it can charge for a policy. And we 
generally take the view that, as long as they treat people fairly, insurers can charge what  
they feel appropriate to cover  a risk. So, when considering a complaint about  the level of a 
premium, I look to see that the insurer hasnt singled the consumer out. And having 
examined the commercially  sensitive  documents Aviva has shown  me, Im satisfied that 
Aviva has treated Mr F and Ms F as it would its other customers  with similar  circumstances.
Aviva has accepted that its subsidence expert made  some  mistakes in writing  to Mr F and 
Ms F. It incorrectly told them the excess on their policy was £1,000 instead of £5,000. It also 
got the date of a report wrong.  I can see that the first mistake in particular would have been 
very disappointing for Mr F and Ms F. But I dont think  these  administrative errors  mean  that 
its expert was incompetent in respect  of subsidence expertise.
Mr F said he struggled to raise a complaint  with Aviva  because it wouldnt respond by email 
and placed correspondence in a system  which he only had access  to for a certain time. The 
Ref: DRN94871913evidence Ive seen  indicates that Aviva usually responds to complaints  by email, letter or 
telephone. Aviva has explained that emails are only visible and able to be opened within  30 
days of being  sent for data protection purposes. I appreciate  that Mr F disagrees with this 
but its for Aviva to decide  its approach to complying  with data protection requirements.  Im 
not persuaded that Aviva has intentionally made  it more difficult  for Mr F to complain  and the 
fact that he didnt receive its email to him was the result  of a system error.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9487191