K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation)  didnt register  defaults 
against her accounts  in 2011.
background
Miss H was maintaining  minimum payments to her Creation accounts, although the account  
balances were increasing. But in February  2011 she missed  a payment. She then arranged 
a payment plan with Creation, and Creation  reduced the amount of interest Miss H was 
being charged. Miss H remained on payment arrangements,  albeit she missed  a few 
payments, until Creation  transferred her account  to a debt collection agency in 2016.
Miss H is unhappy that Creation didnt register a default against  her accounts, even though 
she was in financial difficulties. Miss H is also unhappy about  the sale of her accounts to the 
debt collection agency. But this is being  dealt with under a different complaint reference  
number. So I wont consider this as part of my decision.
Our investigator found Creation had acted reasonably. He said that, because Miss H was 
maintaining payments up to February  2011,  Creation wouldve had no cause for concern 
about her ability  to service  her debt. But once Miss H missed  payments, Creation arranged 
payments plans for her. When Miss H missed a payment on a payment plan, this was 
followed by a discussion about affordability  and a revised payment plan.
The investigator thought this was reasonable, and he didnt  think Creation shouldve 
registered a default  the guidance issued  by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
said defaults shouldnt  be registered if payment plans are jointly agreed and kept to, which 
generally was the case. So he didnt think Creation needed to do anything  more.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said she hasnt paid anything to Creation 
since May 2018, her accounts have not been  repaid, and she doesnt have a payment  
arrangement in place;  Creation wouldnt let her arrange one because of her personal 
circumstances  she wasnt  working at the time.  Shes also said that the arrangement she 
had in place immediately before she stopped  paying  had become  unaffordable.
Miss H says she always believed Creation had defaulted her accounts, because they werent 
updating her credit  reference  file with payments made; and that all her other creditors  had 
defaulted her accounts even  though  she was on repayment plans.  Shes said the ICO rules  
state Creation  shouldve  informed her they werent defaulting her, and they didnt do this.
Miss H says the second part of her complaint hasnt been addressed   Creation stopped  
reporting the conduct of her accounts in February  2016, just before they were sold to the 
debt collection agency, and they havent been  reported any payments, defaults arrears  or 
otherwise since Creation took the accounts back  in June 2017. She doesnt think  its fair 
that Creation can pick and choose  when and what they report for however long I have these 
balances outstanding.
Miss H says the ongoing situation with Creation is very stressful  and is having an effect on 
her health.  Shes like this to be considered  by the ombudsman as part of the final decision.
Ref: DRN91049932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Miss H was in financial difficulties that resulted  in her missing a payment in February 2011. 
But I wouldnt expect any financial institution  to register a default just because  a single 
payment was missed.  and a payment arrangement agreed. Theres usually a trigger  point 
before the process of registering a default  can be started, and Id expect this to be in the 
region of three to six months payments  missed.  As Miss H had only missed one payment in 
2011, it wouldve  been unreasonable for Creation  to register a default at this stage,  and I 
wouldnt expect them to have done this.
And I wouldnt expect Creation to register a default if Miss H had a payment arrangement in 
place. This is also the case if she couldnt  keep to an existing arrangement, missed a 
payment, and needed to make a new arrangement. So I cant  say Creation did anything 
wrong by not registering a default  while Miss H was (generally) keeping  up to date with 
payment arrangements.
Ive seen Creation  sent Miss H a Notice of Default in September  2014. This asked her to 
make a payment  to bring  her account  back in line with the agreement otherwise a default 
may be registered. Ive also seen  that Miss H started a new payment arrangement with 
Creation in September 2014. So it was reasonable that Creation didnt register  a default at 
this time.
Miss H has supplied copied for her credit files, from two different providers, which  are dated  
January 2020.  These dont show any entries  for Creation at all  either before the accounts  
were sold to the debt collection agency or after. I cant say why this is, and it could be that 
defaults were issued more than six years ago, and the accounts have now dropped off the 
files. But this is unlikely  given the other evidence Ive seen.
And I agree with Miss H that if Creation  arent, and havent been, reporting these accounts to 
the credit  reference  agencies, itd be unfair  for them to start to do this now.  So I wouldnt 
expect them to start to report these  accounts in the future. But I would  expect them to work 
with Miss H to arrange a payment plan thats both affordable  and clears  the outstanding 
balances in a reasonable amount  of time.  If, as has been the case,  Miss H had little or no 
income, I would  expect any payment plan to reflect this. But it wouldnt stop Miss H paying  
additional payments on an as and when basis, if she felt she was able to.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Creation Financial 
Services Limited. 
Ref: DRN91049933Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9104993