K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled her 
motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Miss H has been  helped by her dad. But for ease Ill refer to his 
comments as being those of Miss H.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Miss H bought an Advantage policy online.  A few days later Advantage told Miss H it had 
cancelled the policy without explaining why. Miss H didn't think that was fair and brought  her 
complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Advantage had handled the matter reasonably 
so he said it should:
Remove any cancellation markers from external  databases.
Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience  Miss H experienced because of the 
cancellation.
Provide a letter for Miss H to give to her new insurers to explain that Advantage 
cancelled the policy in error.
On receipt of evidence that Miss H had to pay more  for a subsequent policy 
Advantage should pay the difference in that premiums and her Advantage premium.
Advantage didn't agree  so the complaint's  been passed to me to decide. We've since  
contacted Advantage and explained  that in order to put things right it would need to add 
simple interest to any sums reimbursed because Miss H was forced  to pay a higher  
premium.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
We asked Advantage  to provide an explanation and evidence for its reasons  for cancelling  
Miss Hs policy.  And it might help if I explain  that Miss Hs policy  documents  set out the 
circumstances in which Advantage can cancel  her policy. But Advantage didn't provide 
evidence that any of those reasons applied. So I don't think  it cancelled the policy  fairly. And 
Im aware that Advantages actions have been  the source of distress and inconvenience  for 
Miss H. So to put things  right I think Advantage should take the action initially  recommended 
by our adjudicator,  and which  I've set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
 Remove any record that it cancelled this policy from external databases.
 Provide a letter for Miss H to give to her new insurers to explain that Advantage 
cancelled the policy in error.
Ref: DRN94598322 On receipt of evidence that Miss H had to pay more  for a subsequent policy 
Advantage should reimburse Miss H the difference between that premiums and her 
Advantage premium.  And as Miss H has been without the use of those sums,  it 
should add simple interest to any amount reimbursed at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date Miss H paid for the replacement policy to the date Advantage reimburses her.1
 Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience  Miss H experienced because of the 
cancellation. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Miss H 
has accepted  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate 
of 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9459832