K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained,  through  a representative,  that Barclays Bank  UK plc, trading as Egg, 
(Barclays), mis-sold  him a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W made an application for a credit  card online in July 2004,  and took out PPI at the same  
time. His credit card account was then opened a few weeks later, in August 2004.  
Barclays sent in (amongst other things) copies of statements showing that the credit limit 
reduced to zero in December 2008,  which effectively ended the credit card agreement 
(although it seems that there was a remaining credit balance of £4 which  was refunded  in 
November 2011).
When Mr W made his complaint to us, he said that, at the time of the sale, hed been with his 
employer for a year as a web designer.  He further  told us that he was in good  health at the 
time, but wouldnt have  been entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy pay from his employer 
(although he would, of course, have had some  statutory entitlements) and had no other  
means of meeting his credit card repayments  if he couldnt work. 
However, Barclays sent in its computer  record  of Mr Ws credit  card application  and this 
shows a different employer to that shown in Mr Ws submission. I consider it reasonable to 
take the computer  record  as being  correct  it seems  to me to show  what Mr W entered on 
his online  application.  So we asked Mr W whether his sick pay and redundancy pay 
entitlements would  have  been different to what he first told us. We didnt receive  a response. 
The PPI policy provided cover for death,  disability (accident  and sickness)  unemployment  
and serious illness,  subject to its exclusions and limitations. In the event of a successful 
claim, the monthly  benefit was the lesser of 10% of the balance  outstanding at the start of 
the claim,  or 10% of the credit  limit, or £1,500.  The computer record  of Mr Ws application 
shows a credit limit of £1,000, and from whats on the later statements I think  it remained at 
this level until the account closed. 
The PPI premium at the time of the sale was 74p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. Premiums wouldve been added to any outstanding balance,  thus attracting  
interest, and Mr W wouldve had to continue to pay the premiums during  the period of a 
claim. 
Mr Ws representative made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  I have  
not restated  them all here, but Ive read and considered them  all carefully. In summary, Mr 
Ws representative said:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards  which applied at the time, including  the 
ICOB/ICOBS rules. In those  circumstances, applying the regulators rules  and 
guidance for businesses on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr W was advised to take the policy, despite  what Barclays said about  there  being 
no advice given.
The true costs  of the policy,  including  interest,  werent disclosed; 
The exclusions and limitations of cover  were such that theyd be considered unfair  
under the Unfair Terms  in Consumer  Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR);  and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing valuable cover, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope 
Ref: DRN97257912of the cover  meant  this was untrue. For example, Mr W was misled into believing  that 
claims for backache would be covered when, in fact, the policy limited such  claims;
Our adjudicator didnt  consider that the complaint  should be upheld.  As Mr W disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  the complaint was passed to me to review. I issued a provisional 
decision in September 2019, and invited all parties to respond. 
Barclays said it had no more information to provide and simply reiterated  its offer regarding  
commission and profit share. 
Mr Ws representative said that it maintained that the yes box was pre-ticked on the online 
application, so that the PPI was not sufficiently explained to Mr W and he did not choose to 
take it. Mr Ws representative did not submit any further information about his sick pay and 
savings at the point of sale.
I have considered the responses in my findings below. 
my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards,  relevant codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions  these set out in detail how 
these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to go into the 
same level of detail here but I have taken all of this into account in deciding  Mr Ws 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004  before the sale of general insurance  products  like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA)  in January 2005, and later by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching  principles for 
businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). The same can be said of The 
Unfair Contract Terms and Consumer Notices Regulatory Guide (UNFCOG), which  explains 
how the FCA will apply its powers  under the regulations, rather  than containing 
comprehensive guidance on the regulations themselves, and which was first published in 
2007  again after the sale of Mr Ws policy. 
Mr W also referred to the FCAs Disclosure  Guidance and Transparency Rules  (DTR).  But 
these cover issues such as periodic financial reporting and corporate governance and as 
such are not directly relevant to this complaint.  
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond  as I explained above, Barclays told us that it effectively ended  in December 2008. . 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgement in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgement are applicable.  Ill come back to this later in this decision.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  in 2004, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN97257913complaint. In particular,  there was The General Insurance Standards Councils General 
Insurance Code  for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC  Code, which  set out minimum standards 
of good practice  for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes,  which I 
consider to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected  from 
intermediaries, like Barclays, selling insurance at this time; in particular, there was the 
Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code  of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were members  of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ws case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence),  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith, and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ive also kept in mind  the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP  App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions 
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether Barclays gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
Ref: DRN97257914damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above, and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Barclays sent in sample  screenshots to demonstrate  the Egg Card  online application  
process at the time of the sale. Im satisfied that its reasonable to take these as representing 
what Mr W would have seen when he applied for his credit card. 
In my provisional decision,  I said that, in relation to PPI, the screenshots showed  yes and 
no options so that Mr W could choose  whether or not he wanted to include PPI with his 
card. Barclays computer record of Mr Ws credit card application showed that PPI was 
added as part of his online application. I said I had no evidence to contradict that, so taking 
everything into account, I thought it was most likely  that Barclays presented  the policy  to Mr 
W as being optional  and he chose to take it out alongside his credit card.
I have carefully considered Mr Ws representatives argument, in response to my provisional  
decision, that the yes box was pre-completed. And I have looked again at the screenshots  
provided by Barclays   on which neither option was pre-completed. Mr Ws representative 
submitted no new evidence in support of this point, and from the information before  me, I 
have no reason to think that either  option was pre-completed in Mr Ws application,  or to 
change my conclusion  that Mr W could have chosen  whether to click on the yes or no 
option to indicate whether or not he wanted  PPI. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr Ws representative argued that 
what was on the screenshots  amounted to advice. . 
I accept the sale took place  online, as Mr W and Barclays agree. I cant see that there was 
any direct  contact between Mr W and any of Barclayss  representatives  that would have 
provided it with the opportunity to give him advice about the policy.
Mr Ws representative pointed to the screenshots, which included the wording We strongly 
advise you to take out this valuable cover.  and said this indicated that Barclays 
recommended the policy  to him. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me that Barclays 
made a personal  recommendation  that Mr W take out the policy,  such as evidence showing 
either that he was asked  a series of questions  to allow Barclays  to gain an understanding of 
his specific circumstances  and needs, or that he was led to reasonably  believe hed been 
given advice. Rather it alerted Mr W to the fact that he could take out the policy  and gave 
him information about it.
So, looking  at what happened when  Barclays sold Mr W the PPI, Im not satisfied  that it 
provided advice.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr W to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
As Ive explained, Barclays sent in screenshots it says Mr W would have seen, together  with 
the policy terms and conditions  which I accept most likely  applied to policies like Mr Ws. 
Ref: DRN97257915Looking at the information provided to Mr W at the time, I dont think  Barclays  gave Mr W the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  online. The screenshot showing the yes and no options  that is the 
choice about whether  to take PPI  stated that the policy covered accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The policy also included cover  in the event of death  or serious illness   but 
this was mentioned  on another  screen. The cost was described  as being 74p per £100  of the 
monthly statement  balance. 
The information provided would have given Mr W a broad  sense of what  the policy  covered.  
But it was Barclays responsibility  to draw to Mr Ws attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr W, including  the need to carry on paying premiums during a 
claim or that the premiums would be added to the balance and attract interest.  In addition, I 
cant see that Barclays adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things properly. 
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
Ive concluded  that Mr W wasnt  advised to take the PPI. So he wouldve had to weigh up in 
his own mind the cost of the policy against the benefits offered, and the potential 
consequences if he didnt  insure against  the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ive concluded that Mr W chose to take this policy  out. So I consider its 
also reasonable to conclude  he had some interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But he made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr W 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mr W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known hed have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover 10% of his outstanding balance  from the 
screenshots provided I think hed most  likely  have seen this. I accept  that Barclays didnt 
make clear  the ongoing cost information or that the policy limited the number of monthly 
benefit payments  to 12 per claim. But the policy wouldve helped reduce his outgoings at a 
difficult time  especially  as it seems Mr W would only have had statutory entitlements to rely 
on if he was off sick or lost his job. 
Ref: DRN97257916In addition, the policy wouldve more than covered the contractual monthly  minimum 
payment  which is likely to have been  in the region of 2% of the monthly  outstanding 
balance - and had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full in certain 
circumstances. So whilst  Ive found that Mr W didnt have complete information, the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would  reasonably 
have thought based on the information  on which he most likely made his decision to take the 
PPI - and which he found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded  claims  relating  to medical conditions for which treatment or 
advice had been suggested in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy  and had 
recurred within 24 months  after the start,  or had been diagnosed or led him to 
experience significant  and substantive symptoms during the same periods, or a 
chronic or continuing  disease that the applicant was aware of at the start date:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back  and mental health 
conditions placing  more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr W be unable to 
do his own work,  or other work that his experience, education or training would allow. 
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might have given 
Mr W pause for thought,  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy was not 
as good as he thought  - and he might  have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy. 
For example, back pain and mental health  conditions are common  problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely hed have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest hed have  been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
for example, Mr W told us he didnt have  any pre-existing medical conditions and was in 
permanent employment.  
I still think Mr W had some good reasons  to take the policy out. The evidence about  Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. 
He was eligible  for its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations  and 
exclusions, could  have proved valuable to him should the insured risks have become a 
reality. As Ive mentioned, it seems he would  only have  had statutory entitlements  to rely on 
if he couldnt work. 
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his job, and 
any other job which, in the insurers view, he might  reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
played into his thinking about  what hed have done. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although its possible  he may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mr W was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances  that hed 
be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
Ref: DRN97257917what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy couldve provided  a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. And in those  circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event. 
In saying that, Ive taken  into account what Mr W has said about the following paragraph in 
the terms and conditions of the policy:
The Insurer may at any time change any term of condition of this Policy including  the 
premium payable by giving not less than 30 days written notice of such change  to You at 
Your last known address.
Mr W said that this gave  Barclays  the right to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium, 
and this is a contractual term which is unfair.  
Ive considered the argument carefully.
In this case the complaint  is against Barclays, which was the seller  of the policy, and also the 
lender - but it was not the insurer. The right to vary the cover and premium  is a right that was 
put into the contract by the insurer and could only have  been  exercised by the insurer. So 
what the insurer could  and couldnt do, and whether it acted  unfairly or not, isnt something  I 
can consider here. My consideration in this case  is whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably towards  Mr W when it sold him the policy. And if it did not, whether and to what 
extent I think he lost out as a result.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Barclays should have done more  to clearly bring the 
contractual term about the insurers right to unilaterally vary the cover and the premium to 
Mr Ws attention.  And, having done so, I think it should have done  more. I think this was a 
significant term, so I think Mr W would  have wanted to know about  it. Because Mr W wasnt 
clearly told, I dont  think Barclays  acted fairly and reasonably towards him.
But even if Barclays  had done  more  to highlight the term clearly to Mr W, I dont think  this 
would have made a difference  to his decision to buy the PPI for the reasons Ive already 
explained.
Im also mindful that the policy terms and conditions went on to give both parties  the right to 
terminate the policy  with 30 days notice at any time throughout the duration of the 
contract. So, as and when any new terms were proposed by the insurer,  Mr W had a 
reasonable amount of time to consider whether he wanted  to continue with the policy. 
If Mr W didnt like any newly proposed terms and conditions, he could have  chosen  not to 
accept them and sought cover elsewhere  if he still wanted this type of cover.  But I can 
see that there were  at least two occasions where  changes were made to the terms and 
conditions following which Mr Ws policy  remained active. One was in October 2004  so 
shortly after Mr W took out his credit card and PPI - when,  among other  things, the 
premium increased slightly from 74p to 79p (Barclays  says there were no further premium  
increases after 2004). Another was when  the insurer changed in 2008.
Not all of the changes made on those occasions  meant the policy  terms were  less 
favourable to Mr W. For example, in 2004, the maximum  monthly  benefit  limit of £1,500  
was removed, as was the claim  limit of £15,000  for life and serious illness  claims.
So overall, while I accept Barclays should have done more to bring  the above paragraph 
from the terms and conditions to Mr Ws attention, for the reasons Ive explained  above  I 
dont think hed have  been put off buying  the policy if Barclays  had done  more.
While the above  policy term  together with some  or all of the other  policy terms Mr W has 
highlighted  could  well be considered to be unfair, as I have said,  it would be the insurer  
that would  seek  to rely on them in assessing  any claims, and not Barclays. 
Ref: DRN97257918Im also aware that Mr W thought Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably wasnt because  of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr W, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
The above  means Barclays doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
what Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr W any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr W the difference 
between what Mr W owed and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit  share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest as he paid off the credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint, and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, my final decision  is that I dont  find that the PPI policy  was mis-sold   so Barclays 
Bank UK plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  Bank UK plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9725791