K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is being represented by a claims management company. Shes complaining about 
Leeds Building Society (Leeds BS) because she says she was mis-sold investments  into 
structured products in 2004. Her representative  says the product literature she was given  
was misleading  because the maximum  return  on the investments  was based on unrealistic 
returns and given undue prominence. It says Mrs B was an inexperienced investor and relied 
on this information  when making a decision about  whether to invest.
background
In May 2004, Mrs B made three investments totalling around  £14,000  in structured products. 
The investments matured in 2010 for a total of just over £16,800. At maturity,  Mrs B 
reinvested the proceeds into new structured investments. In 2014, Leeds BS carried out its 
own review of the 2010 sales and offered compensation.  This complaint concerns the 
original sales in 2004 and thats  what Ive concentrated on.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached. Both Leeds  BS and Mrs Bs representative  contacted us to 
say theyve nothing  further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99823522extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
There are two key issues to address in responding to this complaint. First,  whether Mrs B complained 
in time and the case therefore falls within  our jurisdiction.  And second,  if we do have  jurisdiction, 
whether it should be upheld. Ive addressed both issues in this provisional decision.
jurisdiction
The rules I must follow  are set out in the Dispute  Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. The rules say that, without the consent of the business 
involved, we cant consider a complaint that is brought to us outside set time limits. DISP rule 2.8.2 
says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  . . . more than: 
a)six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  
reasonably to have become  aware) that he had cause  for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within  
that period and has a written acknowledgement  or some other  record of the complaint having 
been received;
The investments were  sold in 2004 and I understand Mrs B didnt complain to Leeds BS until 
September 2017  more than six years later. The issue I must decide  is whether  she should have 
known she had cause  for complaint more  than three years before that.
Leeds BS thinks Mrs B should have known she had cause for complaint when her investments  
matured in 2010, but I dont  agree with that. Its my understanding she was expecting to receive  back 
the money invested plus a return and thats what happened. Her complaint is centred on the way the 
products were structured  and their workings were presented in its literature.  I dont think anything that 
happened in 2010 would necessarily have made her aware of these  potential issues.
Ive also considered whether  the review of her 2010 investments in 2014 should have  made  Mrs B 
aware she had reason  for complaint about the 2004 sales and I dont think  thats the case either. The 
correspondence she received focussed on the 2010 investments only.  I dont think it should  
necessarily have led her to question the sale of different products several years beforehand. Even if I 
felt otherwise, I note Leeds BS wrote to Mrs B with the results of its investigation in October  2014 and 
her representative says she first made this complaint to Leeds BS in September 2017  less than 
three years later.
Taking everything into account, I dont  think  Mrs B complained  outside the relevant time limits and Im 
currently satisfied I can look at the merits of her case.
merits
Much of the emphasis  in the complaint put forward by Mrs Bs representative is based on the contents 
of the documentation.  To support its case, its referred to a final notice issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) about Yorkshire Building Society in 2014. 
While I understand  the point, I think its a strange argument to put forward in the circumstances and 
one thats very difficult to place any reliance on. The FCAs final notice concerned sales made  by a 
different business and between  2009 and 2012  at least five years after Mrs B invested. It also 
Ref: DRN99823523referred to the sale of a particular type (cliquet-style)  of structured investment. Neither Leeds BS nor 
Mrs B have been able to provide copies  of the literature she was given. Which means I cant know 
whether the investments she was sold were even of the same type or if there were similar issues with 
the documentation.
This notwithstanding, I note Mrs Bs representative says she received advice  (or at least was entitled 
to believe she did) before investing. It certainly  seems clear Mrs B spoke to staff at Leeds BS and was 
given information about the investments and I can see why she may have felt she was being advised. 
Whether that amounted to a formal recommendation  and advice  as understood in industry  terms is 
difficult to say. The absence of any advice-related documentation, for example  a fact find or suitability 
letter, might  suggest it didnt. But I also take her representatives point that no execution-only 
statement or other documentation has been  provided  to demonstrate the sale was made  without 
advice.
If formal advice was given, the Leeds BS representative giving it had a responsibility to make sure 
any recommendation was suitable for Mrs Bs circumstances and needs.
From the information Ive been able to obtain about  the structured products in which Mrs B invested in 
2004, it seems  they were  designed to return at least the capital she invested  and therefore offered a 
high level of security. As demonstrated at maturity, they also offered the prospect of a return on her 
capital. Presumably, Mrs B was relatively  satisfied with the return she received at the time, otherwise 
she wouldnt  have reinvested the proceeds into other structured products.
The products were  designed to be held for a number  of years, but according to the information  
recently provided by her representative,  the amount invested was less than half the money she had 
available so there was other money  she could  draw on if needed. And In the end, she was able to 
retain her investments until they matured,  without needing earlier access. 
Taking everything into account, if it could be shown Mrs B did receive advice prior to making her 
investments, I think  the available  evidence indicates that advice was relatively suitable at the time it 
was given.
I appreciate my comments will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and this isnt the outcome  she was 
hoping for. But based on the information thats available,  I dont think theres  enough to show she was 
somehow misled about the nature of the investments or given unsuitable advice.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I can consider Mrs Bs complaint but I dont intend to uphold  it for the 
reasons explained above.
Ref: DRN9982352