K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the handling  of her credit card issued by TSB Bank plc. 
background
Miss M has raised  the following issues about  the handling of her credit card account:
1.She made a booking  for a trip in 2016  which she paid for using the card. 
Unfortunately, she was unable to go due to a family  emergency. The accommodation 
charged her for the whole stay as a no show which Miss M felt was unfair, so she 
asked TSB to help her obtain a refund. 
2.She noticed the balance on her credit card in May 2018 was showing as -£495 and 
queried it with the bank. They  told her she was in credit,  so she spent the money. 
Miss M didnt question this as shed had problems  with repeated  charges for 
accommodation in March 2018 and assumed  it was as a result of refunds. But in 
August 2018 she received a bill for over £4,000. Miss M said she was concerned  
about the affect this had on her credit  file, and charges  and interest that shed incur. 
TSB looked into her complaint. They didnt address point one. They  said the issue  with the 
credit card in point two, was as a result  of problems they experienced during a systems 
upgrade. A direct debit from her TSB current account to the credit  card was attempted in 
May 2018 for £3,011.07  to clear the balance. But, as there  wasnt  enough money  in the 
current account, the direct debit  didnt go through. It shows on the current account statement 
as being debited and credited on the same  day. Unfortunately, due to the system problems, 
the money was deducted from the credit  card balance despite  the payment not having been  
successful. TSB corrected this mistake  in August 2018. 
TSB say Miss M should have been  aware  from her current account statement that the 
payment hadnt  been successful. They said the August  2018  credit card balance  in excess of 
£4,000 was correct. But they acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Miss M and 
offered her £1,000 compensation and £50 expenses  for having  to visit a branch. They asked 
her for details of what had impacted her credit file and offered to investigate further. 
Miss M was unhappy with what TSB said and offered, so she referred her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. She asked Miss M for more details and evidence 
relating to the 2016 trip  such as contracts  for the booking and evidence of why she couldnt  
go. But Miss M couldnt provide any evidence  and TSB didnt have any record  of her 
requesting a chargeback for that transaction before. TSB were able to provide evidence of a 
successful chargeback (the process by which a card issuer  and a merchant can resolve 
payment disputes) on Miss Ms current account for £185.61 relating to a hotel booking. 
Miss M received a full refund of that payment in July 2018  but this wasnt the same 
transaction that Miss M is now querying.  The investigator felt there  was nothing further she 
could do on this point  without more evidence.
The second  problem Miss M had raised stemmed from system  problems. Our investigator 
said Miss M ought to have  been aware  that her payment of £3,011.07 hadnt  gone through to 
her credit card as the money stayed  in her current account. She said Miss M was receiving 
paper statements on each account and noticed the £451 credit on the credit card,  so could 
reasonably have been expected to see the extra £3,000 in her current  account.  But the 
investigator agreed that TSB were  wrong  to tell Miss M the £451  was hers. She noted  the 
Ref: DRN96270412£1,000 compensation and £50 expenses TSB had paid Miss M but asked them to go a bit 
further. She recommended that TSB should write  off any interest and charges from 
May 2018 until August 2018   the period that the credit card statements were not showing 
the correct balance. 
Neither TSB nor Miss M accepted the investigators  opinion. 
TSB said Miss Ms credit  card balance was incorrect between  May and August 2018 so that 
had favoured  Miss M as the balance was in credit or lower than it shouldve been.  Miss M 
said she honestly didnt  realise the £3,011.07  payment hadnt gone through  and she was 
treated poorly  by the branch when she went in after the mistake was realised. She provided 
more information  about the 2016 trip for which she felt she was unfairly  charged.  This 
information was a single email in Swedish dated 2 June 2016  to which  she said shed 
received no reply. So our investigator looked  at things  again. 
The investigator concluded that there was no loss to Miss M from interest or charges as TSB 
had said. And she considered whether  Miss M hadnt been aware of the missed  payment. 
She noted that shortly after the failed  payment   which at the time would have cleared the 
whole balance  Miss M had made  a smaller one of £200 to the credit card. She felt that this 
suggested Miss M mustve  been aware  of the failed  payment or thered have been no need 
to make the smaller one. The single email Miss M had sent the B&B for the six-night  stay did 
not provide enough information for the investigator to ask TSB to do anything further and the 
£1,050 offered by TSB was reasonable in the circumstances.  
TSB accepted this opinion, but Miss M didnt. As there was no agreement,  the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has not been  able to provide any further  evidence regarding  the 2016  trip and TSB 
say they have no record of receiving a complaint about it. There are generally two methods 
which enable a consumer  may seek a refund through their credit card provider for a 
transaction theyve  made but havent received the service paid for. One is a chargeback 
under the card scheme  rules, and the other is a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section  75). Each require  certain  circumstances to be met and 
evidence to be provided by the consumer. 
The rules  which cover chargebacks are set by the card scheme, such as Mastercard or Visa.  
They allow card issuers  (in this case TSB) to obtain  refunds from merchants in certain  
circumstances, such as in this case,  accommodation being paid for but not used. But there 
are time limits for a consumer must raise the dispute  with the card issuer  usually in the 
region of 120 days of the transaction but sometimes longer depending on the circumstances. 
I note from what TSB have said, that they have no record  of any dispute being  raised  with 
them in 2016  and Miss M hasnt provided any evidence either.  The first time she appears  to 
have raised this issue is in 2019. Given that the maximum timeframe in any chargeback 
case is 540 days from the date of the transaction, Miss M is out of time to raise  a 
chargeback claim for the problem encountered  in 2016. As such  I dont think  TSB acted  
unfairly by not perusing a chargeback in this case.  
Ref: DRN96270413Section 75 says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit  agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider  if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services. 
If a consumer wants their credit card issuer to investigate such  a problem, they would need  
to provide some evidence  of the breach of contract  or misrepresentation. For example, 
theyd usually need to provide a copy of the contract together with any relevant  
correspondence for a claim to be looked into. It seems Miss M has yet to provide any 
evidence that would  assist the bank in investigating her claim, so I cant say theyve treated 
her unfairly by not doing so at this stage. 
Miss Ms main concern appears  to be the issues regarding the balance on her credit card. 
Ive seen statements  on both the current and credit  card accounts  but havent  seen any 
duplicated payments  relating to her holiday in March 2018.  But I have seen that the 
direct debits to her credit card in April and May 2018  were  both returned to the account. 
In April 2018, a direct debit for almost £1,200 was unpaid and returned to the current 
account on the same day. A few days later, she made a payment of £100 to the credit card.  
On 2 May 2018,  £3,011.07 payment taken was returned to the current account the same 
day. On 16 May 2018, I can see that a payment of £200 was made to the credit card. 
The difference between the two events was that when the April 2018  transaction was 
unpaid, the balance shown on the statement  for the credit card  quite rightly  didnt 
change. But with the May 2018  transaction, the credit card balance was reduced  by the 
payment  and that remained the case until the problems  with the system upgrade  were  
sorted out in August 2018. 
While there  was an error by the bank in that they showed the wrong  balance  on Miss Ms 
credit card for a number of months, I think Miss M ought reasonably  have been aware that 
the payment hadnt been successful. She was receiving paper statements from TSB for both 
her current  account and credit card statement, and it appears may have been aware the 
payment hadnt  gone through because she made the smaller  one a few days later.  
As the credit card account was showing  a credit balance for the period May to August 2018, 
I dont think its likely  that this will have had an adverse impact on her credit file, or that any 
charges and interest were incurred over this period. For this reason, I dont think TSB 
caused her a financial loss nor do I think their actions had any other adverse impact on her 
during this time. I understand however, that Miss M decided at some stage after that to stop 
making payments  to the card which will have been  likely to adversely affect her credit  file. In 
their final response,  TSB offered to look into any problems with Miss Ms credit  file if she 
could provide details of the impact of their actions on it, which I think  is reasonable.  
In any event, its clear that a mistake had been  made but that Miss M does owe the money  
to the bank. Miss M has said shed like to enter a repayment arrangement and do so on an 
interest free basis. Im aware  that shes lodged a separate complaint about that with TSB 
and theyve sent her their final response so Ill not comment  further  on that here.
I appreciate things went wrong  in the processing of the transaction  and the situation may 
have been confusing. From what Miss M has told us about her visit to the branch, I think  
more could have  been done  to explain the situation and assist her in putting things right. Im 
aware that TSB subsequently offered Miss M £1,000 compensation for the distress and 
Ref: DRN96270414inconvenience it caused her, as well as £50 for the expenses she incurred in getting to the 
branch. I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont think I can 
reasonably ask TSB to do anything further but would remind them of their obligation  to treat 
people in financial difficulty  fairly.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9627041