K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ls signed credit  card application. This document isnt of the 
best quality, but its mostly legible. Ive compared the document  weve been sent to 
documentation that we know BoS used during their sales process  around this time.
In order for PPI to be added to the account, a tick and separate  signature from Mr L 
were required. 
I think BoS made it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he might not remember this as a tick and 
separate signature have been added  for PPI.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had to check that the PPI was right for him     
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN98832322Ive thought about everything Mr L has said, but these points dont change my decision.
As Mr L is currently  in a Protected  Trust Deed and theres been an expression of interest  in 
any potential compensation by the Insolvency  Practitioner  administering  Mr Ls trust deed, 
BoS should ensure it pays any redress to the correct party . If Mr L has any queries 
about the redress he should  speak  to Bank of Scotland plc.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  If it has already done this, I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883232