K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about problems she experienced when she switched her current account 
to Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide).  In particular she says Nationwide didnt contact 
her and try to sort out the problems before she went on holiday and she didnt receive a 
refer a friend incentive payment she was expecting.   
background
Miss B applied online to switch her current account  to Nationwide as part of an incentive that 
would pay herand  the friend that referred  her £100 each.
Nationwide switched the account  before the start date Miss B had originally given. This 
caused Miss B problems  as she didnt have sufficient funds to cover some  of her direct  debit 
payments and she was due to go on holiday soon afterwards which  also meant she couldnt 
transfer any funds  into the account.  She also didnt  receive a PIN number for her debit card 
which meant she had to use her credit  card in the meantime. 
Miss B contacted Nationwide to complain. She said Nationwide had made an error by 
switching the account earlier than requested and asked what  it would do to ensure none of 
her direct debit payments were returned unpaid while she was on holiday. She suggested  a 
temporary overdraft facility might help.  Nationwide said it would contact her within three  days 
to discuss what could  be done. And it confirmed that Miss B would still qualify for the refer a 
friend payment.
But Nationwide didnt respond as it said it would and Miss B said she had to ask her friend  to 
transfer some money into her account to cover her bills. And when it did reply Nationwide  
said Miss B didnt qualify  for the incentive  payment as she had completed  a partial switch, 
not a full switch.  But it accepted it hadnt  handled Miss Bs complaint as well as it could have 
done and paid £200 into her account  as compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and said that in his view the payment of £200 
compensation was sufficient for the inconvenience  Nationwides errors had caused.
Miss B disagreed. She said Nationwide  told her it would complete a full switchand pay her 
the incentive. She didnt think Nationwides website explained the difference between  full 
and partial switches  clearly and she didnt believe the compensation shed  received  was 
sufficient for all the errors Nationwide  had made.
As Miss B didnt agree  the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss B feels that she should  have been  paid the refer  a friend incentive by 
Nationwide as well as further compensation for the poor customer service  shes 
experienced. So I can assure  Miss B Ive carefully considered  the points shes  raised  and 
Ive listened to the telephone calls she had with Nationwide. But I think  Nationwide has 
Ref: DRN93864902compensated her fairly here, and I dont think it should have to pay the incentive payment.  I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Miss B so Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Nationwide did carry out a partial switch of Miss Bs account. So my 
first consideration has been whether this was what Miss B actually wanted to do and, if so, 
would she have been eligible for the refer a friend incentive.
The refer  a friend terms and conditionsavailable on Nationwides  websitestates  that 
once the recommended friend  receives  the link from the recommender they must then 
complete a full switch And that the switch must close the old account. The website also 
has a separate  page which says what does  switching  my current account mean and Ive 
seen the definition of switching a current account  is you open a new account and your old 
account is closed. 
Ive also seen that the online application Miss B was asked to complete made  a number of 
references to partial withdrawals and had one section titled  dont want to close  your existing 
account? And what this meant.  So, Im satisfied that Nationwide  did provide sufficient clear 
information of the two types of switch  that were available. 
So Ive gone  on to think about whether Miss B opted for a full or partial switch. And based on 
Miss Bs comments that she couldnt close her old account because it still had an overdraft 
on it, I think its more likely than not that she didnt want to close her old account straight  
away. And by not closing  that account meant  that the criteria  for a full account  switch wasnt  
met at this point. So while  I think she was attracted to the benefit  of opening a new account 
and receiving an incentive payment, I dont think it was her intention to fully switch accounts 
at that time because  of the overdraft  on her old account. And as Miss B didnt close her 
existing account,  I dont think Miss B qualified for the refer a friend  incentive  payment. So I 
dont think Nationwide  is required to pay it to her.
But I do think its clear that Nationwide didnt deal with the switch as well as it should have 
done and made errors in dealing with Miss Bs query  about the account. 
Ive seen how Nationwide:
Set up the date of the switch earlier than Miss B asked for and didnt  explain why.
Promised her that she could  do a full switch when the partial switch  had completed  
and still qualify for the refer a friend payment, when she didnt qualify.
Failed to acknowledge her request for a PIN number for her debit  card which  meant 
she had to use her credit card.
Didnt respond to the questions  raised in Miss Bs telephone  call within  3 working  
days as stated. 
And Ive considered the impact  these errors  had on Miss B. Firstly she had to ask her friend 
to put money  into her account while she was on holiday, she had to temporarily use her 
credit card instead of her debit card and she was incorrectly advised that she would still 
receive the incentive payment. So I do think Miss B has suffered distress and inconvenience 
here.  
But all things considered  I think the £200  Nationwide has paid is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN93864903my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against  Nationwide  Building 
Society in as much as I think the payment its already made  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9386490