K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc debited his credit  card account with a payment he 
says he didnt authorise. HSBC failed to stop the payment  being  made  and refused to refund 
it.  
background 
In 2018 Mr Ms wife was undergoing treatment at a private hospital.  The surgeon treating her 
asked Mr M to make payment to the hospital;  he did this by providing his HSBC credit  card 
details over the phone. Mr Ms wife was then kept in hospital for longer than had been 
expected, so Mr M made a second card payment at the front desk of the hospital.  The 
banks records show that the first payment  was processed by the card details being entered  
manually and the second was made  with the physical card and its PIN. 
After the initial treatment, however, Mr Ms wife had to be re-admitted to the hospital  as an 
emergency. Mr M says that the surgeon told him there was a payment arrangement with the 
hospital; he took that to mean  that all necessary  fees had been paid and that he wouldnt 
have to pay any more.  
However, Mr M then became aware that the amount of credit available to him was over 
£5,000 less than he thought. He contacted HSBC and was told that there was a further 
payment to the hospital pending. He asked the bank to block it, but was told that wouldnt be 
possible; he would have to wait until the payment was made and then dispute  it. 
The payment was debited to Mr Ms credit card account the following day. HSBCs records  
show that it was made when Mr Ms card details were keyed manually  that is, the card 
itself wasnt presented to make the payment. Mr M contacted the bank but was told that he 
should take the matter up with the hospital. It didnt seek a refund through chargeback  the 
process by which  some  payments can be challenged through  the card schemes (in this 
case, Visa). 
HSBC didnt agree that the third payment to the hospital hadnt been authorised. Mr M 
referred the case to this service and one of our investigators considered  it. She concluded, in 
summary, that the payment  probably had been authorised; she accepted that HSBC couldnt 
have stopped it being taken, but thought that the bank ought  to have asked for more 
information before refusing to seek a refund through the chargeback scheme.  In respect  of 
that latter issue she suggested that some  compensation was appropriate; HSBC  offered 
£100, which the investigator thought  was reasonable. The investigator  also expressed the 
view that, had a chargeback  been raised,  it was unlikely to have been successful. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review  
the case, as the final stage in our process.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to broadly  the same  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons.  
In determining Mr Ms complaint about  HSBC, Im required  by our rules  and by law to take 
into account all relevant circumstances. In this case,  those circumstances include in my view 
Ref: DRN92875342the fact that the underlying dispute  here is between Mr M and the hospital that took the 
payment hes disputing. This is not a case where  someone unknown to Mr M has used his 
card without his knowledge  or consent. He knows where the payment has gone. Ill comment 
on the effect of that later, but I should  stress  that its not my role to decide whether or not the 
hospital was entitled to charge Mr M what it did (or indeed anything). I make no comment on 
any dispute that Mr M or his wife might  have with the hospital  whether about the payment 
or the services it provided. 
The first aspect of Mr Ms complaint about  HSBC is that it shouldnt  have allowed the 
payment to be processed, knowing that Mr M was disputing it. HSBC  said that it couldnt 
stop the pending transaction  at that time and that Mr M should raise  a dispute about  the 
payment only if and when it was completed. I agree  with the bank on this point. Credit card 
payments are guaranteed,  in the sense  that the payee can be sure that, as long as theyre 
authorised, they will be completed. So HSBC couldnt stop the payment at that point.
I agree  with the investigators assessment too that its unlikely a chargeback would have 
resulted in a refund of the payment, since the hospital would  have been  able to show  that it 
legitimately had Mr Ms card details and the payment was not a duplicate. Chargeback is 
primarily a means of resolving disputes  about payments, not disputes about between  
customers and providers  of goods or services; its also a process thats based on 
documents. So, whilst Mr M has said, for example, that he was assured  no further payments 
were needed, evidence of that kind would not have  been available in the chargeback 
process. 
The investigator did think however that HSBC should have asked more questions  before 
deciding not to pursue a chargeback. HSBC agreed to offer £100 in respect  of that, and I 
agree thats  a fair offer.  So that Mr M can enforce that  if he chooses to accept my decision 
 I will make an award of that amount. 
I turn then to the main  issue  here  whether or not Mr M authorised  the payment. Initially,  Mr 
M said he had no documentation from the hospital,  but he did later obtain some,  through  a 
subject access request. Of course, Mr M wasnt the hospitals patient; his wife was. That 
may explain why this wasnt available to him earlier. That documentation included invoices 
and information  about payment of fees.  It appears from that documentation  that patients are 
required to leave card details with the hospital and that the hospital  will take payments, using 
the card details, for the services it has provided. 
I accept that Mr M wasnt physically present when the third, disputed,  payment was taken. I 
accept too that he didnt  specifically agree  to the payment  for example,  in a further call to 
the hospital. But he had provided the hospital with his card details (when he made the first 
payment over the phone).  In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that HSBC was 
entitled to treat the payment as authorised. 
That doesnt  mean however that I agree that the hospital was entitled to take the payment 
that it did. As Ive indicated, its not for me to determine the outcome of any disagreement  
between Mr M and the hospital.  
I also commented earlier that the underlying dispute  here is really  between Mr M (and his 
wife) and the hospital. In effect, they say that they were over-charged. Mr M has also 
mentioned action against the hospital in respect of the quality of the treatment provided. So, 
even if I were to take a different  view about the authorisation of the payment, I would still 
need to consider whether  it would  be fair to require HSBC to make  a refund. Its likely that I 
Ref: DRN92875343would conclude that wouldnt be fair and that Mr M should instead take the matter up with 
the hospital. 
For these reasons I wont require HSBC  to refund the payment; I shall however  make a 
formal award in respect of the £100  its already offered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ms complaint, HSBC should pay him £100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9287534