K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with her home insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, because it has declined a 
claim she made for storm damage to her roof.
background
Mrs Ss flat roof was damaged in January 2018.  Water came in and damaged her kitchen. 
There was a storm at the time of the damage and Mrs S made  a claim to Ageas. 
Ageas inspected the roof. It noted the roof was worn in places and felt it had likely  reached 
the end of its natural life. It felt the storm had merely highlighted  the state of the roof, rather 
than caused the damage.  Ageas declined the claim.  When it wouldnt change  its view Mrs S 
complained to us. 
Our investigator saw Ageas report and photos  that had been taken. He felt the conclusion 
reached was reasonable, especially as hed seen no opposing expert opinion to counter it. 
But he did feel that, in line with our approach on these matters,  Ageas should have accepted 
the claim in respect  of internal  damage.
Mrs S was unhappy in respect of the roof damage. She said that all roofs will have  some  
deterioration and it wasnt fair for Ageas to decline her claim on that basis.  Mrs S said 
thered been no sign of any problem with the roof prior to the storm occurring.
Ageas didnt believe it should  have  to cover the internal damage.  It said if the roof had been 
in a good state the internal damage wouldnt have  occurred.
As neither party was satisfied by our findings the complaint was passed  to me for a decision 
to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S didnt choose to take out accidental  damage  cover for her property. Her policy does 
offer cover in the event  that her property is damaged by a storm. But it excludes damage 
caused by wear and tear. As do most  policies  on the market.  
A storm  did occur at the time of the damage. But that doesnt necessarily mean that weather 
caused the damage reported.
The roof in question is a flat felt roof. It is unusual for this type of roof to be damaged by a 
storm if its in good  condition. But it can happen. Its more often the case  that damage occurs  
during a storm because  that weather highlights pre-existing problems with the roof. 
Mrs S didnt get an expert opinion on the cause  of damage to her roof. She did say that her 
roofer said the damage was caused  by winds. But Ive not seen any report  from the roofer. 
Or any explanation of what  damage  had actually occurred to the roof and why it was felt the 
storm had caused  this. 
Ref: DRN97975512When Ageas  assessed the roof it was mostly covered. But the assessor noted cracked 
edges and the age of the roof. It was his opinion that the roof had most  likely failed due to its 
age and he couldnt see any storm related damage. 
The photos  provided seem to support  what the assessor said. Putting this together with the 
fact that flat roofs in good  condition dont usually fail due to storms and that no expert  
opinion has been  provided by Mrs S, Im satisfied that Ageass decline in respect  of the roof 
damage was fair and reasonable.  
That being  said,  Ageas  should  be familiar  with this services approach to internal damage  
that occurs during  a storm. We say that even where the roof is found  to be suffering from 
wear and tear, if internal  damage occurs and theres no sign this has been on-going ie it is a 
direct result of the one-off  storm event,  well require an insurer  to cover the internal damage. 
The kitchen ceiling  and walls, as well as the floor were reported to be wet. It isnt clear to me 
currently what repair to these areas might be needed. But Ageas report  doesnt  suggest this 
damage was long standing or that rain had been  getting in over a prolonged period. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  that Ageas should accept  the claim as far as the internal damage is 
concerned.
Ageas did get things  wrong as far as the internal damage was concerned. But Mrs Ss main  
concern has always  been  the roof. So it is Ageas  decline  in this respect that has caused her 
upset. And Im satisfied  its decline in that respect was fair and reasonable. Therefore, Im not 
going to award  any compensation.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to accept Mrs Ss claim for internal 
damage caused by storm and consider  that part of her claim in line with the remaining policy  
terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9797551