K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (HIFM). Shes unhappy  
with the level of compensation HIFM has offered following a number  of errors. She doesnt 
think HIFMs offer is adequate.
background
Mrs F has a Stakeholder Pension  Plan with HIFM.
In October  2016 HIFM wrote to Mrs Fs husband referring to Mrs F having  passed away. It 
asked him to provide Mrs Fs death certificate. 
As it was Mrs Fs mother and not Mrs F whod passed away  Mrs F was deeply upset by 
HIFMs correspondence. Her husband contacted HIFM to complain  on her behalf.
HIFM responded to Mrs Fs complaint. In summary it:
explained a letter had been received within its group from the NHS pension  service 
on 6 October 2016 confirming Mrs Fs mother had passed away
said the NHS pension  service letter  was passed  onto HIFMs Bereavement Service 
Centre (BSC) whod  failed to read the letter properly and assumed that as the bank  
account quoted was Mrs Fs that it was Mrs F whod passed away
said it had updated Mrs Fs information based on the information  it received from the 
BSC. But accepted it shouldve taken time to read the actual letter  and not just acted 
on BSCs report
said it was sorry for what happened and had contacted BSC to ensure their records  
were corrected.  It had also got its servicing team to update its own records
it was sorry for what happened  and arranged to pay Mrs F £300 compensation for 
upset and frustration  caused
In May 2018  Mrs F noticed HIFM hadnt  collected  her pension contributions since 2016. 
Concerned about  investment loss she contacted HIFM and complained.
HIFM reopened Mrs Fs original complaint to investigate the matter.  Initially  it:
confirmed a breach  had been  raised regarding its inaccurate amendment of Mrs Fs 
records and this was reportable to the regulator
agreed it had failed to reinstate Mrs Fs direct  debit following its original error. And it 
was sorry for any additional frustration caused 
offered Mrs F a further £200 compensation and had arranged for the amount Mrs Fs 
policy wouldve grown if her pension contributions  had been collected as they 
shouldve been between October 2016 and June 2018 to be applied to her policy. 
This amounted  to £329.21
Mrs F responded to HIFM and in summary said:
she rejected HIFMs  offer of £200  compensation
Ref: DRN99102432the value of her pension fund as at 14 May 2017  was £86,044.15 and as at 14 May 
2018 was £92,959.21.  Based on this she felt HIFMs  offer of 329.21  for missed  
growth was inadequate
shed suffered considerable upset and distress and felt HIFMs offers  were  derisory 
HIFMs offers didnt include her missed pension  contributions 
she wanted HIFM to make sensible proposals to reflect her loss, distress  and 
inconvenience
HIFM reviewed its decision and wrote  to Mrs F with its final response  on 15 August 2018. In 
summary it said:
it was very sorry for what happened  
for further distress  and inconvenience  caused  by its error it would increase its offer of 
compensation from £200 to £300
it hadnt found sufficient information  to agree its offer of compensation should be 
increased, or that it should pay the £2,600  Mrs F had asked  for in respect of lost 
growth and missing contributions 
£329.21 shouldve  been achieved as growth on the pension  contributions  it had failed 
to collect and it had applied this to Mrs Fs plan- this growth  was based  on the unit 
price and assumption that contributions  wouldve been received at the normal  date 
each month
it noted Mrs F had said she wasnt in a position to make  up her missed pension 
contributions. But said that if this changed  and she wished to pay them,  itd ensure 
they were applied at the respective due dates
Mrs F responded and in summary said:
HIFMs recent error was more serious because it already had knowledge she hadnt 
passed away in October 2016
HIFM had failed to collect  her pension contributions and had significantly reduced  the 
benefit of her pension  fund
HIFM had failed to contact Mrs F to reinstate her direct debit or advise that her 
pension contributions werent  being taken
she still wasnt able to pay the missing pension contributions to her pension
HIFM hadnt taken  into account  the enormous  personal stress shed been caused
shed accept £2,600 compensation for lost growth and missed contributions  and 
£500 compensation for trouble and upset caused
HIFM responded to Mrs F and said its offer of £300 compensation remained. It said it hadnt 
found sufficient  information to agree to the £500 compensation Mrs F had requested or the 
£2,600 she asked for in respect  of lost growth  and missed pension contributions.
Correspondence continued to be exchanged between  the parties involved but no resolution  
was reached.  As Mrs F remained unhappy  she declined HIFMs offers  and referred her 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
Ref: DRN99102433while she sympathised  with Mrs F she didnt think it was reasonable to expect HIFM  
to pay the contributions it hadnt  collected.
based on annual  statements Mrs F had received it was reasonable to have expected 
her to notice sooner  that her pension contributions  werent  being  taken from her bank 
account and added to her pension.
HIFM applying the growth Mrs F had lost out on as a result of her missed  
contributions not being taken was a fair resolution. And so was its offer of £300 for 
distress and inconvenience caused.
she didnt think HIFM needed  to do anything further to put things right for Mrs F.
Mrs F disagreed with our investigator. She said it wasnt simply that she expected HIFM  to 
pay her missed pension contributions. She explained shed had a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience dealing  with HIFMs  failings twice and didnt think  HIFMs offer adequately  
compensated her for this. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct HIFM to do anything further. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that 
while Ive taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and comments made by 
both parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues central to this 
complaint.
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mrs F. Its clear to me that both 2016  and 2018 
will have been difficult and concerning periods for her. Not only as a result  of Mrs Fs mother 
very sadly passing away in 2016 but also from HIFMs initial error marking Mrs F as 
deceased. This was further compounded by the additional issue  identified in 2018  following 
HIFMs failure  to correct its record for Mrs F in 2016 and specifically reinstate her direct debit 
so her pension contributions could be collected.  Mrs F has on two occasions had to put time 
and energy into dealing with HIFM to try to resolve matters. Because of this I can appreciate 
why Mrs F is so frustrated and upset by what has happened.
There isnt any dispute about the error  HIFM made in 2016. Indeed  HIFM accepts it 
shouldve carried out further checks when its Bereavement  Unit incorrectly  advised  it Mrs F 
had passed away.  As HIFM has acknowledged,  what happened was completely  
unacceptable and should never have occurred. Having recently lost her mother, HIFMs error 
clearly caused Mrs F distress and inconvenience.  In recognition of this HIFM paid Mrs F 
£300 compensation. Im satisfied this payment was fair and in line with what Id expect to 
see in the circumstances. So my decision will focus  on the issue that came to light in 2018 
and the fact the parties dont agree on what compensation  should  be paid or how to put 
things right.
Following its error in 2016 HIFM  reassured  Mrs F the records it held for her had been 
corrected. In 2018 it became apparent this hadnt happened as it shouldve.  While Mrs F was 
no longer listed  as deceased  on HIFMs records, it failed to reinstate the direct debit it had 
erroneously cancelled in 2016. The result was that HIFM didnt collect any of Mrs Fs 
Ref: DRN99102434monthly pension  contributions between October 2016 and June 2018 when Mrs F says she 
noticed what had happened.
Its very disappointing HIFM failed to properly correct the issue  identified in 2016. I can 
appreciate how upset and concerned Mrs F wouldve been when she discovered what  had 
happened. As well as being worried about  the impact of the missing  contributions  to her 
pension, Im sure that having to revisit HIFMs original  error will have  brought back troubling  
memories of what shed previously experienced so soon after her mother  had very sadly  
passed away. In light of this I think its appropriate  Mrs F receives compensation to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience  HIFM caused.
Nothing can take back or alter the trouble and upset Mrs F has already experienced. 
However I do very much understand  how important it is for Mrs F to have what she feels  is a 
level of compensation  that reflects the impact  of HIFMs actions. I agree and would expect 
HIFMs latest  offer to sufficiently recognise  this.
Mrs F advised HIFM  that she thought £500  compensation  for trouble and upset  caused  
would be acceptable.  HIFM originally  offered  Mrs F £200 for this but later increased its offer 
to £300. Mrs F said she felt this offer was insulting. Im sorry Mrs F feels this way. Ive 
carefully considered  everything Mrs F has said along with what  happened. And having  done 
so I think HIFMs latest offer is fair. While I dont underestimate the level of inconvenience,  
frustration and worry Mrs F says shes experienced I havent seen anything  which  persuades 
me an award  higher than what HIFM has offered would be appropriate. These things are not 
an exact science.  But taking into account  the overall impact of this situation I think the £300  
HIFM has offered for this is fair. I dont think HIFMs original offer of £200 was adequate so I 
can understand why Mrs R challenged this. 
Turning now to Mrs Fs concerns about  HIFM not collecting her monthly contributions 
between October 2016 and June 2018.  When HIFM failed to reinstate the direct debit it 
erroneously cancelled in 2016, Mrs Fs pension contributions stopped being taken and 
applied to her pension. Mrs F says she noticed this in 2018. So as well as being frustrated 
that HIFM hadnt corrected the situation,  she was also worried  about  the investment  growth 
shed potentially missed  out on. 
HIFM has accepted Mrs F has lost out on investment  growth because  of its failure to collect 
her contributions.  And it carried out a calculation to establish exactly  what  this was. Ive 
considered the basis of this calculation and Im satisfied  its fair and reasonable. To clarify, 
HIFM said:
() a calculation  has been carried out to establish what  the growth would have been if your 
premiums of £164.10 per month had continued. 
The total of all 20 premiums from November 2016 to June 2018 inclusive is £3,282.00 or 
£4,102.60 when grossed  up. Based upon this sum, the current  value of the missed 
premiums at the calculation date on 21 June  2018 would have been £329.21 ()
This loss of growth  is based on the unit price and using the assumption that the premiums  
would have been received  at the normal  date each month.
HIFM has applied the growth Mrs F missed out on to her pension. By reinstating  this 
investment growth  Mrs F is almost back in the position she wouldve been in had her 
Ref: DRN99102435contributions been collected by HIFM on time.  What  remains  is the matter  of Mrs Fs 
missing pension contributions.  
My understanding is that Mrs F is not currently in a position to pay her missing contributions. 
HIFM has ensured  shes  not disadvantaged  by this by applying  the investment growth  she 
missed out on as if Mrs Fs contributions had been made as they shouldve been,  on time. 
HIFM has also said that when Mrs Fs able and chooses to pay her contributions it will make 
sure theyre applied at the respective due dates. I think this is fair solution  in the 
circumstances. 
I understand Mrs F feels strongly  that HIFM should credit  her missing contributions to her 
policy at its expense. However this isnt something Ill be requiring HIFM  to do. I dont think  
itd be reasonable or appropriate. Were I to do this Mrs F would be making an unjustifiable 
profit from HIFMs  mistake.  Mrs F has had use of the contribution payments HIFM  failed to 
collect from her albeit  not in the way that was originally intended. 
Im also mindful that Mrs F has said she noticed the issue with her contributions when  she 
looked at the annual  statement HIFM sent her in 2018. Mrs Fs statements are sent annually 
so she was sent a statement by HIFM in 2017 as well as 2018. The 2017 statement (like the 
2018 statement)  wouldve  highlighted that contributions  hadnt  been paid to Mrs Fs plan. Its 
unfortunate Mrs F didnt  notice this either from her pension statements or bank records, as 
the matter couldve  been corrected sooner and contributions resumed. But I still dont think 
this means HIFM should pay the missing contributions. It remains  that Mrs F has had the 
benefit of this money. 
While I havent found in Mrs Fs favour, in that I dont think HIFM  should  offer further 
compensation or pay her missing pension contributions,  I do think its entirely reasonable for 
Mrs F to expect  HIFM  to provide  a better  level of service than it has on this occasion.  I am 
genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mrs F.
I dont doubt Mrs Fs sincerity in bringing  her complaint and certainly dont  underestimate her 
strength of feeling  regarding the matter.  But for the reasons Ive explained I wont  be asking 
HIFM to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mrs F to decide whether 
she would  like to accept  HBOS Investment Fund  Managers Limiteds offer of £300 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019 .
Ref: DRN99102436Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9910243