K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) cancelled  his 
building and contents insurance policy with short  notice and rejected his claim.
background
Mr M held a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with LV since 2011.
In 2013 Mr M began building work on the property  which included structural works. He says 
he spoke to LV at the time to inform them of the work he intended  doing.  Mr M says he told 
LV he wouldnt be staying at the property overnight, but he would be there  from early  
morning until late in the evenings.  
Mr M says LV agreed to continue his cover and asked for an additional  premium  to cover 
theft of building materials which was added to his policy. Mr Ms policy renewed each year 
for several  years.
In 2018 Mr Ms property was burgled  during which a glass French door was broken and tools 
and building materials  were stolen. So, he made  a claim on his insurance policy with LV.
LV said it wasnt aware the building work had gone on for so long. It said had it known the 
building work  was still ongoing and Mr M wasnt occupying the property, it wouldnt have 
continued his cover. So, LV gave  Mr M seven days notice of cancellation of his policy.  
LV also declined Mr Ms claim on the basis the property was unoccupied. LV said it was a 
condition of the policy-  in the section relating to theft- that the property was occupied.
Mr M wasnt happy with LVs actions, so he made  a complaint. He said he had told LV in 
2013 what the situation with the property was and, as this hadnt changed, he didnt think  
hed have to give an update to LV. Mr M was also unhappy he was only given seven days  
notice of cancellation of the policy over the Christmas period.
In response LV agreed  it should have accounted  for the Christmas holidays during the notice 
period and offered Mr M £100  in compensation for this. But, as the property was unoccupied 
at the time of the theft,  it maintained its decision to decline Mr Ms claim, as this was a term 
of the policy.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. I sent Mr M and LV my provisional 
decision on 30 June 2020. I explained that I didn't  think it was fair for LV to rely on the 
unoccupied exclusion  when rejecting Mr Ms claim.  I also said LVs offer of £100 for failing  to 
give Mr M enough notice  of his policy cancellation  was fair. Ive copied my findings from my 
provisional decision below. 
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
Im very sorry to hear Mr M was the victim of a burglary. My role, in complaints like these, 
is to decide if LVs decisions were fair and reasonable when it decided  the cancel Mr Ms 
policy and decline his claim. For ease, Ive split the two issues  into sub headings.
Ref: DRN93652742Declined claim
I dont think LVs decision to decline the claim was fair, Ill explain why.  
LV said,  had Mr M disclosed the level of occupancy in 2013, then the cover offered to him 
would have been restricted  and theft excluded. But it no longer holds records  from 2013  
when this conversation  took place. Mr M maintains he did disclose the level of occupancy 
in 2013. 
When Information is incomplete or missing as it is in this case,  I must  base  my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened. Theres no dispute Mr M called LV in 2013 and 
had a conversation  around building work he was due to start on the house.  And, at the time, 
LV increased Mr Ms premiums and included a term relating to the theft of building  materials. 
So, its clear LV knew building work was going on. Ive also thought  about  whether Mr M is 
likely to have told LV the house would only be occupied during daytimes and in the evening, 
but not overnight.
I dont know exactly what was discussed during the call in 2013.  But in Mr Ms policy 
schedule, there is a section entitled  about the property.  Amongst  other things, it says; Is in 
need of or is undergoing structural work and Is normally occupied (daytime or evenings). 
So, I think its clear Mr M notified LV that there would be ongoing structural work on the 
house. And Mr M has told us the structural work included  removing the roof and most of the 
walls of the property.  So, he wouldnt have been  able to stay at the house overnight. 
The wording  used on the policy schedule leads me to think, on balance,  its more likely Mr M 
did tell LV his house was undergoing structural work  and it would be occupied in the 
daytimes and evenings. And I think its likely  the information Mr M gave was then reflected in 
the policy schedule  and wording used.  
LV have relied upon an exclusion in Mr Ms policy which says theft claims wouldnt be 
covered after your home has been  unoccupied for more than 60 days  in a row. And LV said 
this was highlighted in the key facts document sent to Mr M. But the exclusion is further 
defined in the policy documents and goes on to say (unless the insurance conditions  shown 
on your schedule shows anything different).  
The policy documents define the meaning of unoccupied as being slept in regularly. It says 
regular visits and occasional overnight  stays are not accepted.  So, whilst I agree Mr Ms 
house could be defined as unoccupied as per the terms of the policy, the exclusion allows 
for the schedule to show different conditions.  And I think, where Mr Ms schedule  says 
Occupied (daytime and evenings), this could  be interpreted as an insurance condition  noted 
on the schedule  which shows  something different to the terms of the policy. 
In its final response letter  LV said However,  your documents that were sent at every  
renewal, clearly state that the house was occupied  night  and day and if this wasnt the case, 
the onus was on you to tell us. Im not persuaded, from the documents Ive seen, the 
documents clearly  state the house  was occupied night and day. As Ive said, the documents  
appear to indicate  the house was occupied daytimes  and evenings.   
LV said the onus  was on Mr M to let it know  if the details on the schedule  were incorrect, or if 
they had changed. I dont  think this is unreasonable, but from Mr Ms point of view, the 
details on the schedule were correct, and he was continuing to pay an additional premium 
for the building  work. So, I dont think he would have felt it necessary to contact  LV.  
Ref: DRN93652743So, for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont think it would be fair for LV to rely on the 
unoccupied exclusion when rejecting Mr Ms claim. So, Im minded to say LV should  settle  
Mr Ms claim  in line with the remaining terms of the policy and any applicable policy limits. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest  on the settlement from the date LV declined  the claim  
23 January 2019.
Cancellation of policy
LV said during the investigation  into Mr Ms burglary it had established Mr M hadnt been 
living in the property for several years. It said whilst in the past we have been prepared to 
cover your home, going  forward were not willing  to. The terms of Mr Ms policy allow for LV 
to cancel the policy with seven days notice  if a change in circumstances means LV can no 
longer provide cover. 
The circumstances around  this claim meant that LV were no longer willing  to provide cover 
for Mr M. I dont find that unreasonable, as LV are able to make a business  decision on who 
they insure. And LV felt it was no longer able to cover the property, knowing Mr M still wasnt  
living there.  
Whilst I think it was fair that the policy came to an end, I dont think  its fair for LV to have 
cancelled Mr Ms policy  as it did. I say this because when an insurer cancels a policy,  it can 
have an impact on its customer. Future  insurers would expect Mr M to disclose that he had 
an insurance policy cancelled. He may then be seen as a greater risk to insure and have to 
pay increased premiums. 
Therefore, Im minded to say LV should  record the policy  as if Mr M had cancelled it himself.  
And update  any records it holds to this effect.
When LV notified  Mr M that the policy  was ending, it gave  him seven days  notice. 
However, the letter was sent on Christmas  eve and so, it wasnt  received by Mr M until the 
date that the policy  was ending. LV have acknowledged that it should have considered this 
when it sent the letter  and offered £100 compensation to Mr M. I think  that £100 fairly  
reflects the inconvenience this caused Mr M, having little time to find new cover.  So, Im not 
minded to ask LV to do anything more in relation to the notice  period.    
the responses to my provisional  decision
LV said it was happy to accept my assessment.
Mr M asked  me to consider further  compensation for the financial hardship he has faced in 
the past 18 months. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  my provisional 
findings.
I was pleased to see that AXA accepted my provisional decision. I also responded to Mr Ms 
comments about the financial hardship hed faced. 
Ref: DRN93652744I explained to Mr M that I had considered  the financial  pressure  he may have faced over the 
past 18 months, having been deprived  of the settlement money LV should have paid him. 
I understand this may have influenced a range of decisions Mr M made about his spending 
and borrowing over that period. Its not always possible to say for sure what the cost of this 
is however I feel in the circumstances  of this case an award of 8% simple interest on the 
settlement is fair compensation for Mr M having been deprived  of the settlement money.  
I invited Mr M to provide  any further evidence of financial loss however, Mr M didnt provide 
any further evidence  for me to consider. So, I still think an award of 8% simple  interest  on 
the settlement  is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, in this and my provisional decision, my final decision is 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited should;
1.Settle Mr Ms claim  for the burglary in line with the remaining terms of the policy and 
any applicable  policy limits. 
2.Add 8% simple interest to the settlement from the date it declined Mr Ms claim to the 
date of settlement.
3.Record the cancellation  as if Mr M had cancelled the policy himself.
4.Pay Mr M £100, if it hasnt already done  so, for the inconvenience of giving 
insufficient notice  of cancellation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9365274