K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains she was mis-led by American Express  Services  Europe Limited about the 
partnership airlines  available  for the reward points she has built up for using her card.
background
Mrs P opened her Gold Card with American Express in 2012. It came with 10,000  free air 
miles and no annual  fee for the first year.  After  the first year Mrs P was looking to cancel  the 
card account  as the fee free period had come to an end. However, she says she was 
persuaded to keep  the account after finding out she could transfer her miles to an existing 
airline she earned miles with  Malaysian Air.
Mrs P continued using the card over the years. In November 2018,  she wanted to close  the 
account and transfer her points to her Malaysian  Air reward scheme. She was told this 
wasnt possible as that partnership only applied to the American Express currency card 
(dollars or euros). Unhappy with this Mrs P complained. She says a staff member tried to set 
up a dummy account so her points could be transferred but couldnt  complete this. So the 
matter was referred for the complaint to be investigated.
American Express issued  its response  on 4 December 2018 not upholding the complaint as 
there was no information available  to review from when she decided  to keep the card.  But 
Mrs P didnt receive this letter. And despite  her following up her complaint by letter and e-
mail she wasnt contacted  again until January 2019. During  that call Mrs P expressed her 
unhappiness at the situation  and that she never received a copy of the final response.  She 
asked the call handler whether she could transfer her points  to Cathay Pacific and was told 
no as it wasnt a partnership airline. So she asked what airlines she could transfer her points  
to and during  this she was told Malaysian Air. She asked  the call handler  to clarify and they 
confirmed that was only for currency card accounts. Mrs P felt as this mistake had been 
made during this call it was possible the same mistake had been made years earlier. 
Mrs P asked us to look into the matters. She either  wants  her miles transferred to her 
Malaysian Air account  or a refund  of all the annual fees she paid for the card as this was the 
only reason she took it out. Our investigator looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold  it. 
She wasnt persuaded there was sufficient  evidence American  Express did anything  wrong.  
Mrs P asked for the matter to be reviewed.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 July explaining why I was minded to uphold  this 
complaint. I was persuaded by Mrs Ps testimony  about what she was told when the fee free 
period of her card account expired. And to that end I required American Express  to either  
refund the annual  fees with interest or allow  Mrs P to transfer her miles to Asia Air which  
allowed use on Cathay Pacific  the choice was Mrs Ps. 
I said:
I accept there is no longer  a recording of conversation Mrs P had with American  Express  in 
2013. There is no requirement for businesses to makes recordings, or if they do, to keep 
them for that length of time.  And there are no system notes either,  so there  is no written 
record of the discussion.  
Ive therefore  considered  Mrs Ps testimony  about what  happened and listened to the call 
she had with American Express in January 2019.  She has been consistent both in her 
Ref: DRN99010022written and verbal testimony  about what happened. And she has told us she has not used 
the card for any other benefits  (aside  for a small amount of cash  back  on one shop).  Given 
the annual fee charged  for the card, I find it more likely than not that she only decided to 
continue with the card in 2013 as she was led to believe she could transfer her miles to 
Malaysian Air. 
In reaching this conclusion, I have taken into account that during the call of January 2019 the 
staff member included Malaysian Air in the list of partnership airlines when  asked to confirm 
whom Mrs P could transfer her miles to. As this mistake was made  during a call concerning 
her complaint, I find it entirely  plausible the same  mistake could have been made during an 
everyday enquiry about the miles.  Ive also noted  that a member of staff tried to create a 
dummy account  so she could transfer her miles  presumably because they accepted 
something had gone  wrong. 
Overall, I have  found Mrs Ps testimony plausible and persuasive,  such  that I am currently  
minded to uphold  her complaint.
how American Express  should put this right
Mrs P has asked  that she either be able to transfer  her miles to Malaysian Air or receive a 
refund of the annual fees she has paid since  2013. 
During my consideration of this complaint  I note that Mrs P queried whether she could  
transfer her points to Cathay Pacific.  She was told they werent a partnership  airline.  Whilst 
that might  be correct, it isnt a direct partnership, Ive seen on American Expresss  website 
that miles can be transferred to Asia Miles and Cathay Pacific  is one of the airlines  listed 
with Asia Miles. I dont  know  how this works  or whether this is actually available to her  or 
whether she would still be interested. But it appears to be an option available so she doesnt 
lose her miles. 
So in order to put this matter right, American  Express should either:
close Mrs Ps account and refund the annual  fees she has paid for the card account 
since 2013; and.
add 8% simple interest  per annum on each of those fee refunds from the date the 
payment was made until the date of settlement.
Or
arrange for Mrs Ps miles to be transferred to Asia Miles; and
pay £250 for the inconvenience caused  by providing incorrect  information.
If there is any reason  why Mrs Ps miles cannot  be transferred to Asia Miles, I ask American 
Express to let me know in response  to this provisional decision. And I ask Mrs P to let me 
know which compensation she prefers.  Of course, if American Express  lets me know that it 
cant transfer the miles such that they can be used by Mrs P for Cathay Pacific, redress  will 
revert to the refund set out above.
In summary,  Mrs P accepted my decision and said shed prefer  the refund of fees and 
interest. But she also raised a question about the first 10,000  air miles she received when 
first opening  the account. 
Ref: DRN99010023American Express said, in summary:
Its disappointed  with my findings but wants to work towards  an acceptable 
conclusion. 
The ombudsmans decision to refund the annual fees plus 8% interest is 
disproportionate to the alleged error; misinformation which  cannot  be evidenced by 
Mrs P. If the ombudsman still feels this is acceptable then the points earned 
shouldnt be honoured. 
The account has a lot of other benefits  and the ombudsman hasnt considered 
whether Mrs P has used  the other benefits. 
The proactive  decision by American Express to try and transfer the points to 
Malaysia Airlines was to explore every option  to help Mrs P. It wasnt an admission 
of liability in its part and wants  this suggestion  removed from the published decision.
It proposes to pay Mrs P £250 and transfer her points to another partner or she can 
use them  in other ways.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and argument, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to alter my decision to uphold this complaint. 
I accept American Express explanation  that it sought to transfer  the points to Malaysia 
Airlines as a good will gesture. 
American Express believes  a refund of the annual  fee plus interest is disproportionate to the 
alleged error. However, it knows that when we find something has gone wrong our approach 
to putting that right is to put the customer in the position they would have been in but for that 
error. 
Ive accepted Mrs Ps testimony as plausible. And contrary  to its arguments, I did explain in 
my provisional decision that Mrs P didnt use any of the other  benefits  that came  with the 
account aside  from some cash back on one shop. It hasnt provided any evidence  to show  
that Mrs P did, in fact, make use of the other  benefits that came  with the account. I was 
therefore satisfied  she only continued with the account after the fee free period because she 
had been given incorrect information about Malaysia Airlines.
It follows that if American Express had provided  the correct information, Mrs P most likely 
wouldnt have continued with the card account.  That means she wouldnt have paid the 
annual fees and so is something  she is entitled  to have refunded.  And as she has been  out 
of pocket because  of paying  those  fees, our usual approach is to award 8% simple interest 
per annum  on each  of those fees. I see no reason to depart from that approach in this case.  
Mrs P prefers to close the account and have a refund  of the annual  fees. And to that end I 
would agree with American Express that as I have found she wouldnt have gone  ahead with 
the card account  then she wouldnt  have  been able to earn the points.  And so the points 
shouldnt be honoured. 
However, Mrs P raises  a compelling argument  for the initial  10,000 air miles. These were 
awarded on account opening. And the wrong doing didnt occur until a year later when the 
fee free period expired. So it seems to me Mrs P is entitled to retain the initial  10,000 air 
miles. She will need to make arrangements to spend or transfer those points if she wishes 
Ref: DRN99010024for the account  to be closed  and she is aware  it isnt possible to transfer these to Malaysia 
Airlines. 
how American Express  should put this right
In order to put this matter  right, American Express should:
On the transfer  or use of the initial 10,000  air miles, close  Mrs Ps account and refund 
the annual fees she has paid for the card account  since  2013; and.
add 8% simple interest  per annum on each of those fee refunds from the date the 
payment was made until the date of settlement.
If American Express thinks  its legally required to deduct income tax from any interest, it 
must send  a tax deduction certificate  to Mrs P if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require American  Express Services  
Europe Limited to pay Mrs P compensation in accordance with the above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9901002