K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr O bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card online. It covered 
him in case he was off work sick or lost his job. In a claim, the PPI would pay towards his 
credit card each month until he either returned to work or it cleared the balance.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen, when Mr O applied for his card there wouldve been a section for PPI. 
It briefly explained what  the policy was for and what it cost, and then there were two tick 
boxes to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down.  Both boxes were equally 
prominent and neither  one was pre-selected. The electronic record of Mr Os application 
shows that he chose  PPI. So I think that Canada  Square made Mr O aware  he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  even if, understandably, he 
may no longer  remember doing so after so long.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. They did have to give Mr O enough information to decide if the PPI was right 
for him.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mr O about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr O chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations.
Mr O did have some sick pay, but the PPI covered him for at least  twice  as long, and he 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case he lost his job. I also understand that his 
family wouldve been more than willing to help, but there was always  the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed.  And the PPI meant  that Mr O wouldnt have to ask his family to 
pay his credit card if he was off sick or lost his job. So the policy  would have been useful for 
Mr O in case something went wrong. And so I dont think  better information about  the PPI 
was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN93920902my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9392090