K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Stockport Car Supermarket  (SCS) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance PPI policy when he took out a hire purchase agreement.
background
Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement through SCS in 2008. At the same time he was 
sold a PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on his agreement if he was off 
work sick or was made redundant. The cost of the policy was added  to his agreement  and 
he paid interest on it.
Mr B says that he was told he wouldnt qualify for the finance agreement if he didnt take out 
the PPI. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs case didnt think his complaint  should be upheld.  Mr B 
disagrees, so his case has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
SCS disputed that they were responsible for the sale of the PPI. This was dealt with 
separately  first by the Financial Services Compensation Service  and then by this Service  
which both concluded  that SCS was responsible  for the sale.  So I have made my decision 
about the alleged mis-sale on this basis.
There isnt much information about the sale. Mr B has provided  a copy  of his hire purchase  
agreement and I can see from this that there was a choice about the PPI. Various insurance 
products were listed and Mr B signed separately to say he wanted  to buy PPI, but not any of 
the others.
But Mr B says that he was told he had to take the PPI to qualify for the finance. He says that 
SCS spoke with the lender on the phone and relayed this message  to him. It is clearly 
difficult to weigh the evidence here without further  information. But, on balance, I am 
satisfied that a choice was presented to Mr B because thats what  the paperwork suggests.  
And if Im wrong and PPI was made a condition of the finance  then Mr B had the option to 
decline the agreement  and seek alternative finance elsewhere. 
Because I havent  been able to uphold Mr Bs complaint on the grounds that he has 
suggested I have  looked at what is known  about the rest of the sale to see if theres any 
other reason why the policy might have been mis-sold. 
Its likely  SCS would have  provided  a personal recommendation to Mr B about  the PPI. So it 
had a responsibility to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was right for him. Having 
looked at Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale, as well as the policy terms  which  its 
Ref: DRN95356772likely were in place  at the time, I think that any such recommendation  would have been 
suitable. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which  
might have  made it more  difficult  for him to make a successful claim  such as those 
related to self-employment  or existing medical  conditions;
Mr B didnt  have any contractual sick pay, so the policy offered a useful benefit if he 
couldnt work due to illness or an accident;
Mr B would have received a small amount of redundancy pay from his employer, but 
the policy would have paid out in addition to this, leaving any redundancy pay to 
cover other uninsured  expenses;
Although Mr B may not have  received  a pro-rata  refund  of any premiums  if he wanted 
to cancel the policy, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest this was something he 
was likely to want to do at the time of sale. 
Its possible Mr B wasnt given  all the details he ideally should  have received to help him 
make his decision. But I dont think more, or better, information would have  changed his 
mind about  buying  it, because  it was suitable for him in the way Ive already described 
above. The cost of the policy was set out in the agreement, so Mr B knew  how much  hed be 
paying for the policy itself and the interest  on the loan to pay for it.
On balance, I dont  think Mr B lost out as a result  of anything SCS did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint so it follows  that Stockport Car Supermarket doesnt  have  
to pay any compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9535677