K820x#14Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) moved to a new overdraft pricing structure 
which charged a daily fee for use of his facility.
Background
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr C complained to Lloyds he calculated that the new pricing  structure 
meant that hed pay 30 times more than what he was paying before.  
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said it was entitled to change  its pricing structure  
and while  this meant some customers might  end up paying more,  it had transitional 
arrangements in place to mitigate this. It also said that its collections department did help    
Mr C when his account ran into difficulties. Mr C remained  dissatisfied and referred  his 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Cs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong  or treated Mr C unfairly  and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further,  I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr C is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair and substantial  increase in 
Lloyds overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said,  while Im not looking at Lloyds charging  structure changes  per se, it wont have 
acted fairly  and reasonably towards  Mr C if it implemented these changes  unfairly.  For 
example, in circumstances where he was in financial difficulty  and it took no steps to mitigate 
the effects of the proposed changes and this compounded his difficulties. So Ive considered 
whether Lloyds treated Mr C fairly  and reasonably  when it implemented  these changes on 
his overdraft. 
I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr C unfairly  or unreasonably here though. I say this 
because having  looked at Mr Cs statements I cant see anything to suggest that he might  
have been experiencing  financial difficulty at the time of the change to the pricing  structure. I 
accept that Mr C had a large overdraft limit which he was using regularly. But it is clear that 
significant funds  were going into the account.  And it also looks  as though Mr C was using 
some of the funds as cashflow for his employment  too.
So I dont  think that Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr C may have been  struggling 
financially. And as the balance  was regularly being reduced suggesting that it could  be 
Ref: DRN91948082repaid within  a reasonable period of time too, I cant reasonably  reach the conclusion that 
the overdraft was unaffordable either.
Ive also seen what Mr C has said about a loan not being much  use to him. I can sympathise 
and understand  why a loan might be less useful for Mr C than his overdraft as he wouldnt 
be able to use a loan in the same way. But the flexibility of overdrafts  is one of the reasons 
why the interest  rates are higher than for fixed-term  loans. And as Lloyds is entitled to have 
varied the terms in the way that it did, its up to Mr C to decide whether he wishes to use the 
overdraft on these new terms. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds implemented  these 
changes in a way that treated Mr C unfairly.  And as the terms and conditions  permitted 
Lloyds to make these changes in the first place,  it follows that Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9194808