K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss T bought the policy in 1988 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Miss T applied for her mortgage and PPI policy but 
Santander has been able to provide evidence that they started  at the same time.
The policy documents that applied  to Miss T are no longer available. I dont think thats 
surprising given how long ago the policy was sold. But I have looked at the nearest available  
policy summary which I think is the same as, or at least similar to, the policy that wouldve 
applied to Miss T, to help me decide this case. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss T for accident, sickness, and redundancy  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  an amount  sufficient to cover Miss Ts monthly  
mortgage payment  in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £9.84 a month. 
At the time,  Miss T was employed  as a care assistant. She has told us she was entitled to 12 
months sick pay (consisting of 6 months  full pay and 6 months half pay), redundancy pay, 
and death in service  benefit. Miss T has told us about a surgical  procedure  she had several 
years before taking  out the policy but otherwise appears to have been in good health  at the 
time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 1995.
Miss Ts representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ts representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Miss T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss T and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN95359242The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1988 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1995. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after Santander sold Miss T PPI. Prior to this there  were fewer requirements on a business 
when selling  insurance such as this. But Santander  doesnt appear to have considered Miss 
Ts complaint any differently  it seems  to me they have considered the sale of PPI against 
these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Miss T in a more favourable position, I 
have taken into account the later industry  codes  of practice in considering  what  I think  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95359243In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Miss T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Miss T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss T and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN95359244did Miss T know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Miss T have been  able to provide me with copies of the 
documentation from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising given how long ago the 
policy was sold. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale,  so I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Santander says it wouldve  made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and that Miss T would 
have had to complete a separate application to take out the PPI. Based on the evidence 
available, I havent  seen enough  to doubt that Santander followed  it usual  process at the 
time. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Miss T knew the policy  
was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it provided advice during this sale. Miss T hasnt said if she agrees. An 
advised sale places  a higher burden  on Santander  to make sure the policy was suitable  for 
Miss T, so Ive considered this complaint on the basis that the sale was advised. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Miss T with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss T. It seems Miss T cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  information about 
Miss Ts financial  circumstances  as part of her mortgage application, but there is no specific  
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Miss T would  have been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet her needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered  
whether Miss T had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss T given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Santander  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss T, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss T met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Miss T had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Miss Ts ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
Ref: DRN95359245working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay benefits she says she would have been entitled to.
-Although Miss T says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss T. There 
was nothing about Miss Ts employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Miss T has told us 
about a surgical  procedure  she had several years before taking out the PPI, but shes 
not suggested that this surgery continued to cause her any issues  at the time of the 
sale. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover  for mental  health  or back 
problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that Miss T be disabled or unemployed for 60 days before she could make a claim 
and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each 
claim), the policy still provided valuable cover given:
Miss Ts circumstances, including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Miss T be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Miss T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss T was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss T would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss T agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss T Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Miss T all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN95359246Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss T about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ts representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss T has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Miss  T? To what extent  did Miss  T 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss T. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss T, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss T has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Miss T would have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss T says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN95359247return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss T had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ts circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss T knew she would have to pay 
something for the policy, Ive seen nothing to show that Santander told her the exact 
premium at the point  Miss T applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Miss T 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible she might have  raised  that with Santander at the time,  or reconsidered 
her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss T would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Miss T would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss Ts 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss T thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any chronic or recurring disease, disorder or 
condition of which Miss T was aware on the date of signing  the application form for 
which a claim  had been paid under the insurance;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss T pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss T from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss T was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Miss T says she had surgery 
several years before taking out the PPI (which  shes said also required an extended period 
of time off work) I dont  think  better information  about  this exclusion would have put her off 
agreeing to it. I say this because Miss T hasnt suggested that there were any ongoing  
Ref: DRN95359248issues caused by this surgery at the time of the sale, so I dont think  its something shed 
have thought it likely shed need to claim for.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss T would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Santander may not have told Miss T that any claim she made would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 24 
months was a longer period than Miss T would have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss T would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Miss Ts sick pay or redundancy  money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss T would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss T 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ts representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss T would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss T 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN95359249Miss T believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss T in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Miss T compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss T thinks Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Miss T, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1988 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ts representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss T and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss T in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2021.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9535924