K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Target Servicing Limiteds redemption figure for the equity loan on her 
Help to Buy home was based on an incorrect valuation and she paid more than she should 
have to. Mrs B wants Target  to repay  £8,000.
background
Mrs B bought a property  in 2012  with the assistance  of the governments Help to Buy 
scheme. Under this scheme she got a loan through the scheme of 20% of the purchase 
price and when  it was sold, the scheme  would get 20% of the sale proceeds  of that property. 
In 2013, Mrs B acquired an adjoining piece of waste land at the rear of the property and 
extended the house into the outbuildings with a garden. Mrs B decided to sell the property in 
2018 and got a valuation.  The surveyor provided two valuations.  The surveyors  opinion was 
that with the additional  land, the property  was worth £280,000 and without the land,  it was 
worth £240,000.
Target required Mrs B to redeem the equity loan based on the higher valuation. So, Target 
required Mrs B to pay £56,000. Mrs B believed  that she should only have to pay a 
redemption figure  based  on the lower valuation which would have been £48,000.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld as the guidance on how 
this scheme is meant to operate  suggests that any improvements made to a property  with 
the approval of the mortgage  administrator will be ignored in reaching  a valuation. So, our 
investigators view was that Target should  refund Mrs B £8,000 and pay her £150 for the 
problems it caused  her. Target disagreed saying in summary that the previous 
administrators of the scheme did not ringfence  the extra land so that it should be included  in 
the valuation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Help to Buy scheme assisted Mrs B to buy this property  by providing 20% of the 
purchase price. Its entitled to 20% of the sale price when the property is sold. The matter  is 
complicated by the fact that after the original purchase Mrs B got an opportunity  to buy an 
additional parcel of land at nil value.  This was waste land with outhouses  which Mrs B made  
into an extension and garden. To access the garden  required a door through  the wall of the 
original property and Mrs B got permission from the administrator of the Help to Buy scheme 
at that time to do that.
Mrs B sold the property which is composed  of two different  parcels of land,  one of which  is 
subject to the equity mortgage and the other which is not. Mrs B got two valuations. One 
valuation was for the parcel which is the original property subject to the equity mortgage.  
This was valued at £240,000. That seems  to me to be the relevant parcel to value  as the 
other parcel  of land isnt subject to the equity mortgage. I cant  see how the Help to Buy 
scheme can require  Mrs B to pay over a portion of the proceeds of the sale of land over 
which it holds no charge.
Even if I were to accept  that the scheme  had some  claim  I have  noted  that the equity 
mortgage terms refers  to the situation if, as here, Mrs B made any additions or 
Ref: DRN99437112improvements to the property with the written consent of the lender. In that case, in 
determining the market value of the property on disposal, such additions or improvements 
should be disregarded. Mrs B got such consent. Although,  I dont consider that this is the 
correct way to look at this, it suggests  that in all fairness the additional value added by the 
borrowers to the property  should be discounted  in coming to the value of the property for 
redemption purposes.
Target says that when  the previous mortgage administrators gave consent to Mrs B to do the 
improvements they didnt  confirm that the land wouldnt  be included in the final valuation. I 
understand this is what Target means  when  it says that the previous administrators didnt 
ringfence  the land. I assume this to mean that there was a further administrative step that 
the former  administrators should  have  taken. But Mrs B wasnt  to know the internal 
procedures of the administrators and shouldnt be penalised if this didnt  happen. I note that 
Mrs B was put to a lot of worry  and stress by this. For the above reasons I uphold  this 
complaint and order Target to repay  £8,000 and pay Mrs B £150 for her upset.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Target  Servicing Limited to pay Mrs B:
1.£8,000.
2.Interest*on  £8,000  from date of payment to date of settlement at 8% pa.
3.£150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
     *If Target  considers it should deduct  income tax from the 8% interest element  of my award  it may do so, but 
should give Mrs B the necessary certificate,  if she asks for it, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes  
entitled to do so
Ref: DRN9943711