K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  has unfairly 
discontinued all aspects  of the travel  insurance on their NatWest Black account.  Theyve  
said that NatWest refusing to provide no cover at all without the payment of an additional 
premium is discriminatory on the basis of their age. .  
background
Mr and Mrs K have  held a fee paying  NatWest Black  account for a number of years  with 
NatWest. In return for a monthly account  fee, they receive a range of insurance and non-
insurance benefits, including worldwide travel  insurance. The worldwide travel insurance 
covers account holders  (and their family) up to the age of 70. But once anyone who is 
insured by the policy is over the age of 70, they can still be covered by the policy,  providing 
they pay an additional age extension premium  of £75 per person, per year.
Mr and Mrs K accept  that it isnt unfair for a charge to apply per se. They  say they 
understand why an additional charge may apply for people over 70 for health  related aspects 
of cover,  given the increased risk of suffering from ill health that comes with age. But they 
think its unfair for the aspects of cover  that are unrelated  to health e.g. lost baggage, 
delayed and cancelled  flights etc to also be withdrawn without the payment  of the 
additional premium.   
To resolve  their complaint, Mr and Mrs K have asked that NatWest extend  all travel 
insurance benefits to clients  over 70 (except health related cover)  if the additional premium  
isnt paid.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that NatWest  had 
discriminated against Mr and Mrs K because of their age. As Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with 
this, they asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Firstly, I should explain  that although  this case is against NatWest, it is the insurance 
underwriter who is responsible for setting the terms, conditions, exclusions and eligibility 
requirements of the travel  insurance policy. 
Therefore, I can only consider this case in the context of NatWest  providing travel insurance  
as a benefit of its fee-paying Black account.  And it doesnt appear  to be in dispute that 
NatWest made Mr and Mrs K aware of the age extension condition  once they reached the 
age of 70. So overall, I think NatWest has done enough to inform Mr and Mrs K about the 
age extension condition  on the Black account  travel insurance benefit.
Ref: DRN98925302Turning to The Equality Act 2010,  I appreciate that it banned  age discrimination in the 
provision of goods and services.  But there  is an exception in the law for providing  financial 
services such  as travel insurance. The law is quite detailed on this point  but essentially it 
means that a bank  (or insurance provider)  can continue  to use age as a factor in designing, 
pricing and offering its insurance products. And most, if not all, travel insurance  policies have 
upper age limits included  in their insurance policies. So I dont  think NatWest did anything 
wrong just because it offered travel insurance with an age extension upgrade, as a benefit of 
its Black  account.
However, I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs Ks point  is more  nuanced  than outright disagreeing 
with having to pay the age extension premium. Specifically, they question why someone  
over the age of 70 cant still be covered for all other aspects of cover  that are unrelated  to 
health, if they dont pay the age extension premium. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs K have asked for this, after all by not paying the age extension 
premium, theyd still have  to pay the same amount for an account that would not be as 
beneficial to them. But it might help for me to start by explaining that Mr and Mrs K didnt buy 
a travel insurance policy. What they bought and what they continue  to pay for is a set 
package of benefits in return for a set monthly  fee. It is simply not possible to have some  of 
the package without having  the rest of it. And it follows  that it is not possible to separate the 
components that make  up the individual benefits  either.  
So while an insurer  might be able to offer a tailored product that might better suit 
Mr and Mrs Ks needs, this is not a feature of the Black  account that Mr and Mrs K agreed to.  
And, in these circumstances, its up to the account  holder, or account holders, to decide 
whether theyll  find enough of the package useful to justify paying the monthly fee.
I can understand why it might be frustrating for Mr and Mrs K to have to pay the same 
monthly fee for fewer  benefits. But NatWest doesnt  allow any customer, including those  
under the age of 70, to split the benefits  of the account and specifically the travel  insurance, 
in the way that Mr and Mrs K want.  So I dont  think NatWest  has treated Mr and Mrs K 
unfairly because  of their age.     
Given everything, Ive seen nothing to suggest that NatWest has acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in this matter. I appreciate  that this may not be the outcome Mr and Mrs K 
were hoping for. But I hope  this decision explains why I dont  think  NatWest has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.  
And because of this, I dont think it would be appropriate to require NatWest to do anything 
further. As I understand  it Mr and Mrs K can switch to a different account should they wish to 
do so. And this course of action remains available to them should they decide that the Black 
account no longer  meets  their needs.  
Ref: DRN98925303my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9892530