K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  has charged 
them an unfair amount for the cost of their buildings and contents  insurance over several 
years.
background
Mr and Mrs T have  banked with Lloyds for many years and consider themselves loyal 
customers. In 2011 they visited their local branch and were sold a Home Solutions building  
and contents insurance policy. They said they took this out in the belief that they were 
getting a good deal and would be looked  after by Lloyds as loyal customers. 
Mr and Mrs T have  said they didnt go into branch looking to take out an insurance policy 
and cant remember what they were  paying for this insurance with their previous provider. 
However, they assume the price offered by Lloyds in 2011  was cheaper  and therefore, 
together with the level of cover being  something they were  happy with, they took the policy 
when offered it in branch.
When they first took the policy in 2011  it cost £502.71 for the year. The policy  was renewed  
each year and Mr and Mrs T said they were  happy  with the level of insurance they had and 
continued with this until 2015. Mr and Mrs T believed the wording within  the renewal  
documents indicated they were  getting  a competitive price each year as it spoke about their 
policy being inclusive  of discounts  theyd  qualified for. 
In 2015 Lloyds sent its renewal quote  for the 2015/16 insurance, quoted at £814.39 for the 
year. Mr and Mrs T werent happy  with this price and decided to look online through  a price  
comparison website. Using the same  levels of cover and excesses they had on their existing 
policy, Mr and Mrs T were able to find lots of quotes all far cheaper than Lloyds renewal 
quote. Included  within these quotes  was a quote  with Lloyds.
Mr and Mrs T called  Lloyds to complain about  this and ask why the quotes offered online 
were all so much lower  in price than the renewal quote  theyd been  offered. Lloyds  said this 
is because the businesses wanted to attract new customers by offering discounted  rates. Mr 
and Mrs T dont think this is fair and challenged whether Lloyds is treating their existing 
customers fairly and not taking advantage  of them. Mr and Mrs T also said they believed 
they could have got an alternative policy from Lloyds  for less from the start,  had they 
shopped online for this over taking the policy in branch. 
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She explained that the home insurance  
market is competitive  and its not uncommon for businesses to charge  new customers  a 
lower price in order to help attract new business. These prices might not reflect  the actual 
cost of the insurance  to the insurer and could be deemed uneconomical at the start. But this 
new customer discount is then recouped  over time as the policy is renewed.
She said she believed this was fair and if a business wanted to offer a lower price in the first 
year and recoup this discount over subsequent years  it could. But if it appeared that the only 
reason the price increased  was down to the customers continued commitment to renew the 
policy each year without  shopping around, in some circumstances,  that wouldnt be fair.
Ref: DRN97162912Although the policy had risen each year,  our investigator didnt believe the overall increase 
took the cost of the policy past a point where she believed  this was unfair, or that Mr and 
Mrs Ts lack of engagement on the renewals  had been taken advantage off. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They said they are not savvy and able to access  technology as 
easily as others and because of this, together with their age, should be considered 
vulnerable. They feel because of their loyalty they have been  taken advantage off by Lloyds 
and would like the difference what they could have paid and did pay for the insurance 
refunded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided  not to 
uphold this complaint,  I know  this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T but Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T feel strongly  that Lloyds hasnt treated them fairly.  They believe their loyalty  
and trust has been taken advantage off, both when this policy  was taken out and with the 
price offered  each  year on its renewal.
The first part of this complaint to be considered is whether Mr and Mrs T were taken 
advantage of when the policy  was taken out. In other words, was it mis-sold?  They believe 
Lloyds didnt make it clear when the policy was taken out that they could have got the cover 
cheaper elsewhere and this resulted in Lloyds  taking advantage of them  and their 
awareness of the market.  
When Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs T the policy there were a number of things they needed  to do 
to comply with the relevant regulations. This included making sure that they provided  them 
with information which was clear,  fair and not misleading. And if the policy was sold with 
advice, it needed  to ensure the recommendation was suitable  to their needs. Under ICOBS  
5.3 a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for any customer 
who is entitled to rely upon its judgement. And under the principles set out by the FCA on the 
fair treatment of consumers, it states  that a firm must pay due regard to the interest of its 
customer and treat them fairly.
The rules also stated (ICOBS 5.2.2), at the time of the sale that Lloyds needed to specify, 
based on what  Mr and Mrs T said, what their demands and needs were as well as the 
underlying reasons for any advice that was given.
Mr and Mrs T havent complained about the level of cover  they were offered or that it wasnt 
suitable or right for them and I havent  seen anything to suggest that it wasnt.  But they feel 
the information provided wasnt sufficient to make them aware of other  options and this has 
meant Lloyds didnt treat them fairly.
Lloyds has said it was only able to offer the Home Solutions policy  in branch and the advisor 
would have no access to the alternative policies it had available through its telephone and 
internet sales  channels. The recommendation was made around whether the policy it offered 
in branch was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts needs  and it was offered at the price applicable to 
this policy.
I understand the concern  Mr and Mrs T has about other policies via other sales channels not 
being offered, but I dont think Lloyds  has treated them  unfairly when it didnt highlight  these 
Ref: DRN97162913to them. Mr and Mrs T decided  to take the policy quoted in branch as they were happy with 
cover offered, (as Ive said theres  no dispute this didnt meet their demands  and needs), and 
they felt the price was fair. Although Lloyds offered a similar policy  through its other sales 
channels, there is no obligation  on it to highlight  this during the sales  process.
The second thing to consider with this complaint is whether Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs T 
fairly with the pricing journey of their policy.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance shouldve cost. I would be, in 
effect determining or telling a business  how it should operate   and thats  not my role. But I 
can look at whether Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs T fairly throughout the period they held 
the insurance policy.
When a customer  hasnt engaged with the renewal  documents  year on year, wed describe 
these customers as inert. There comes  a point where we think  the business  should become 
aware of this and wed expect it not to increase the price  solely because  of the customers 
inertia.
And in this case,  I dont believe Lloyds has unfairly increased the price of Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy. They  only had the policy for four years before cancelling when they became unhappy 
with the price offered  at the fifth renewal. During this time the policy increased  in price from 
£502.71 when  it was first taken to £672.22  in 2014. The renewal offered after this point 
wasnt accepted  or paid by Mr and Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T have said the information  provided  in their renewal documents let them know 
they were given  a discount  when the policy was first taken. So it wouldnt be unusual for 
Lloyds to recoup this discount  over the next few years. And I can see that Mr and Mrs Ts 
premiums did increase  each year and they didnt engage with Lloyds until 2014  when they 
felt it was becoming too expensive. 
If Lloyds increased the price  just because Mr and Mrs T didnt engage at each renewal, that 
wouldnt be fair. But looking  at all the facts, Im not persuaded Lloyds  increased the price just 
because they didnt engage at renewal.  So, I cant say it acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs T say they only realised  they were  being overcharged when they went  online 
and they should get a refund. They point to the alternative lower  premium  quotes they were 
able to get on price comparison websites  in 2014.  Ive thought  about this. But these policies 
would not have  been identical to the one they had with Lloyds and so cant be compared like 
for like. 
And even though the alternative  from Lloyds  was similar there were  differences  in cover. So, 
the price was always  going to be different. I must also take into account that these wouldve 
been new policies  being quoted in 2014 so Mr and Mrs T possibly  received a discount on the 
premium cost being quoted as well. So, this doesnt  make me think Lloyds acted unfairly.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T but I do not think Lloyds took 
advantage or acted  unfairly so I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020. 
Ref: DRN97162914Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9716291