K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited (Red Sands for 
short) turned down  his claim  under  his pet insurance policy.
background
Mr B has annual  pet insurance  with Red Sands. In June 2017 he made  a claim for the vets 
treatment of his dog in relation to the condition known for short  as Dry Eye.
Red Sands  turned down Mr Bs claim. It said the Dry Eye was a pre-existing condition 
because there had been issues with the dogs eyes before  the policy started. Red Sands 
also applied  a policy exclusion for claims related to eyes and resulting conditions backdated 
to the policys  start date.  Mr B has argued previous  eye issues are unrelated.  He came to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said Red Sands wasnt entitled to apply a policy  
exclusion backdated to the policys start date because it hadnt asked Mr B questions 
appropriately when  he applied for and renewed the policy. The treating vets evidence  was 
that its unlikely  the eye issues were linked and so it wasnt  a pre-existing condition either. 
So he said Red Sands  should pay the claim,  with interest and remove  the retrospective 
exclusion. Red Sands didnt  agree at first. So our adjudicator  issued a second view 
explaining his thinking further. Latterly Red Sands has said it will have to agree to process 
the claim but hasnt mentioned its position regarding  the added  interest. Mr B has asked for 
an Ombudsmans decision so the complaints comes to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Red Sands  and Mr B dont agree  to some of the key issues  here. So I can only make  my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Having done  so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
The policy terms are clear  that theres no cover for pre-existing conditions.  So if the condition 
Mr B was claiming for was already present when he took out his policy, it isnt covered.
The Red Sands definitions of a pre-existing condition includes a condition,  symptom or sign 
of a condition  occurring or existing in any form and at any time prior to the commencement 
date. The commencement  date of the insurance was in April 2017. Red Sands points to the 
dogs medical records  which  show a haze on the eye and alopecia  around the eye both of 
which were noted  on the dogs  records in 2016.
The vet treating the dog has provided  his expert  position on this matter and this is the only 
expert view provided by any of the parties involved. The vet has said:
I have been one of the vets involved in (the dogs) care since September 2016.  On the 
clinical notes, as you have referenced,  there was the suspicion of a scratch  on the eye as a 
pup on 4.2.2016. This is unrelated to the claim  for dry eye (Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca or 
KCS). On 17.9.2016  I myself examined (the dog) as he was off form for an unrelated  reason 
and noted slight periocular alopecia". In my professional opinion this thinning  of the hair 
Ref: DRN91070602around the eye is not a clinical sign suggestive of KCS and was noted only as an incidental 
finding on exam.
I find this expert comment persuasive.  As such on balance Im not persuaded that the 
medical records indicate a pre-existing medical  condition to be in play prior to the 
commencement date. So its not fair for Red Sands to reject the claim on this basis.
As well as rejecting  the claim, Red Sands  also added an exclusion to the policy.  The policy 
terms say an exclusion  may be added for this clinical signillness or condition. The 
exclusion Red Sands  added is much wider  than this and excludes all cover  with respect to 
the eyes and sight, not just the particular condition Mr B claimed for.
As our adjudicator has said, Red Sands was not entitled to apply a retrospective policy 
exclusion. It would only be entitled  to do this if it could  show Mr B hadnt taken care 
answering its clear questions. Red Sands  hasnt  been able to provide a recording of the call. 
So its hard to know  what exactly was said. It says he was asked whether his pet have any 
pre-existing or on-going  illnesses  
I dont think its likely  Mr B thought a healed scratch in the dogs eye or slight hair loss 
around his dogs eye were pre-existing or ongoing  illnesses. As such I think Mr B took 
reasonable care when  answering, no to the question. So I dont think  Red Sands has 
shown that he made  a qualifying misrepresentation. I think it is unfair for Red Sands  to add 
the retrospective exclusion to the policy or rely on that to decline the claim.
All in all I think Red Sands decision to change its position and pay the claim is correct. And it 
knows this services approach around such cases.  So I think  it should  have paid the claim 
when it was originally  made. So I think it fair that Red Sands pays  interest on this as Mr B 
has already paid the vets bills.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we tell it Mr B 
has accepted  my final decision I order Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Pay Mr Bs 2017  claim regarding this dog, subject to the policy limit and excess. Red 
Sands must add interest at the simple rate of 8% from the date he paid the bill to the 
date of settlement;  and
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9107060