K820x#14complaint
Mrs As complaint is about the handling  of a home emergency insurance  policy  with Inter 
Partner Assistance  SA (IPA).
background
Mrs A made a claim under the policy on 5 March 2018. IPA arranged for a contractor to 
attend. He said the main  heat exchanger was faulty and noisy. The engineer  adjusted  the
temperature to reduce the noise and apparently said there  was probably sludge in the 
system.
On 18 March 2018 Mrs A contacted IPA again,  as her boiler had stopped  working and she 
had no heating or hot water. A contractor came  out again on 20 March 2018. I understand 
the contractor determined that the heat exchanger needed to be replaced. This was done  
but some  further  work was also required as this did not resolve the problem. 
However, on 27 March 2018,  IPA told Mrs A that the work  required would cost more than the 
policy limit (i.e. £1,500) and that the boiler was beyond economical repair. It was offered to 
continue to attempt  repairs up to the policy limit but said it could not guarantee that a repair 
would be successful. IPA offered  to pay Mrs A £459.56 (being the remainder of the policy  
limit less the cost of the repairs already carried out) towards the cost of a new boiler as a 
good will gesture;  and paid Mrs A £150 compensation for some delays. 
Mrs A is very unhappy with this. She also says that IPA caused damage  to her property and 
wants IPA to pay the cost of rectifying this and the cost of replacing her boiler and 
compensation for the time she was without heating and hot water.  I understand she had the 
boiler replaced herself in April 2018.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld.  
The adjudicator was satisfied that IPA had handled the claim reasonably.  The policy covers 
repairs up to the cost of £1,500 and there is no cover if the boiler  is beyond  economic repair. 
The adjudicator also determined that IPA was not responsible for any water damage to the 
property, as she said there was no evidence Mrs A had reported an ongoing leak before 
telling IPA on 12 April 2018  that there was water damage.  
The adjudicator thought  the offer of a total of £609.56 was reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Mrs A doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment, so the matter  has been  referred  to me. 
Mrs A has made a number of submissions in her original complaint and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  I have summarised  them below: 
She has had problems with the boiler since August  2017,  as it would only work  
intermittently or not at all, and had called  IPA in late February 2018 to report  yet 
another boiler breakdown. 
She was fobbed off repeatedly by IPA. It then told her the boiler was beyond 
economic repair and she was not told it would contribute to a new boiler. 
She was without heating and hot water for most of the coldest days of the winter.  She 
has five children, two of whom  have disabilities. The house was so cold they could 
not use some rooms at all and she was worried  that their pets may not survive.  
Ref: DRN96473222She had increased  electricity costs because she had to use electric  heathers and 
received no help from IPA with this. 
IPA provided a contribution towards  the purchase of electric heaters but this was not 
enough for the house. 
There were  delays  every time IPA carried out any repair,  as the engineers always  
said theyd have  to come back with other parts. She had to spend considerable time 
on the phone to IPA and accommodating engineers  visits, which  meant she had to 
miss a lot of time off work.  
The engineer  who came on the last visit to fit the heat exchanger  was the one who 
left the leak. She wasn't aware  of the leak immediately, as it was hidden behind  a 
large steam shower/bath. However,  she noticed  it in the hallway below the bathroom 
when she came back after going away for a couple  of days.
She called  IPA to isolate the leak as soon  as she found it but it refused to send 
someone out to isolate it, as the claim for the boiler was still open  and she had an 
ongoing complaint. She says she had similar  home emergency over with her home 
insurance policy and it came  out to stop the leak. 
She pulled her bath forward to check where the leak was coming  from, and found  it 
was coming from above the bath and therefore from the boiler. When she did so the 
glass shower screen fell and smashed.  IPA should pay for the replacement  shower  
screen, as it would not have  happened if she had not had to try and find where the 
leak was coming from. She has not been able to replace it as it is no longer made, 
and so she will have to replace the bath and the screen. 
Her hallway is still water stained  with damaged plaster and flaking paint on the 
ground floor ceiling, plus stains to the paint on a brick wall on the stairwell where the 
bathroom ceiling is on the inner side, the leak was extensive and was reported as 
soon as noticed. The joists and floorboards are damp still. The whole house  smells 
damp still.
This has caused immense pressure and the hardship for her and her family and she 
has had to be prescribed anti-depressants.   
Mrs A has also provided a video of the leak under the boiler  and details of the many  
telephone calls she has made to IPA. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see this was an ordeal for Mrs A; 
being without  heating and hot water in winter,  with young children in the house is difficult  and 
stressful. I can also understand the distress  caused by the water damage. However,  I do not 
intend to uphold this complaint, as I am not persuaded that the trouble experienced by Mrs A 
is due to anything  IPA did or did not do. 
The policy provides the following cover: 
If you suffer  an emergency at your property  you should tell us on the emergency
telephone number. Having verified  your claim on the phone  we will then:
a) inform  you how to protect  yourself  and the property immediately;
b) organise  to pay up to £1,500 including  VAT,  call out, labour, parts and materials to carry
out an emergency repair, or if at a similar  expense a permanent repair.
Ref: DRN96473223Mrs A says she had been having problems with her boiler breaking  down every couple of 
months since around August 2017 and I understand that IPA had previously  been  out to the 
boiler in December 2017 and found  the heat exchanger was blocked. 
IPA apparently attended and repaired the boiler each time, which is what it is obliged  to do 
under the terms  of the policy. There is no evidence that it didnt  carry out any of those 
previous repairs properly. While it is frustrating to have regular boiler  breakdowns, theres no 
evidence this was due to anything IPA did wrong.  
When Mrs A made the claim  in March 2018,  IPA did try and repair the boiler.  However, its 
engineer determined that it would cost at least £1,500 and it might  still not resolve al the 
problems with it. Mrs A thought it was unreasonable to spend this amount on repairing it and 
it should have  paid that towards a new boiler instead. However, the policy  is a repair  policy 
and so I dont  agree that IPA needed to offer this as an alternative for Mrs A. Also there  is no 
provision for any contribution if the boiler  is beyond economic repair or irreparable. 
I am not therefore  persuaded that IPA acted unfairly. And there is no evidence that any of 
the repairs it did do or that it said were needed were  incorrect.  I therefore consider that its 
offer to pay Mrs A the balance of the March 2018 claim limit, which  it says is £459.56, is 
reasonable. There is no obligation for it to make  any contribution towards  the cost of a new 
boiler if it cant be repaired or is likely to exceed the policy limit. 
PA did accept that there was some delay in attending when Mrs A first reported  the claim.  I 
understand that it took around  three  days to attend  initially. Mrs A says there were also 
delays in getting parts and coming  back to do repairs and in getting the quotes for the 
repairs. We would expect  repairs to be done as soon as reasonably  possible. However, 
theres no evidence  of any undue delays after the first attendance. It did take around three 
weeks to determine  that the boiler  was beyond economic repair.  It is not clear  whether it was 
working at all in that time. While this would undoubtedly have bene extremely difficult for   
Mrs A, I am not persuaded  that this was entirely due to anything  IPA did wrong. Mrs As 
boiler needed considerable repair and ultimately  needed to be replaced.  IPA was prepared  
to try and repair it but couldnt be sure that it would be able to succeed. It is inevitable that 
this process would have  taken  some time.   
Having taken all this into consideration, I am satisfied that the £150  compensation already 
offered, together with the contribution of £459.56  is reasonable compensation for any errors 
made by IPA. 
Mrs A also says that IPA caused damage  to her property as the engineer that attended to 
replace the heat exchanger caused  a leak (or left it leaking). Mrs A has provided some  
photos of the damage to the hallway ceiling and a video of the area around  and under the 
boiler. However, I am not persuaded  that there is evidence that IPA caused the leak to the 
boiler. It had told Mrs A that her boiler  was beyond economic repair  on 27 March 2018  and 
the leak was not reported  until 12 April 2018. Mrs P says she had been away for a couple of 
days before  she found it and it was initially hidden by the bath. While there  is evidence  of a 
significant leak from the boiler, there  is no evidence to link it to any actions by IPA. If the 
boiler was leaking  due to the need  to be repaired,  then that is not due to IPA. It had already 
said the boiler could not be repaired within the policy limit around two weeks before the 
water damage was reported to it. And there  is no evidence that its engineer  did anything 
wrong to cause the leak.  
Ref: DRN96473224Given this, I dont consider that IPA is responsible for any of the water  damage to the 
property, the replacement of the shower screen  or any inconvenience  this has caused.   
my final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs As position,  I dont uphold this complaint, as I consider that 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA has already  made a reasonable offer in settlement of the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9647322