K822xcomplaint
Mr F1 complains about how R. Raphael & Sons Plc has responded to a number of queries 
made on his behalf  about a credit card account  he previously held with it. Mr F2 brings this 
complaint for Mr F1. 
background
Mr F2 has a deputyship order which allows him to conduct financial affairs  on behalf of Mr 
F1. Mr F1 was sent a cheque by Raphael, which Mr F2 queried, and then asked to have 
reissued. 
Mr F2 has experienced a significant amount of difficulty in getting  Raphael to respond  to his 
queries, and in due course he complained to our service about this. 
Mr F2 listed  his complaints under the following headings  
-Unprofessionalism  Raphael had made no attempt to answer  his concerns regarding its 
apparent loss of the certified copy of the deputyship order  hed sent it; and Raphael  had 
made no specific response to his correspondence in its letters.
-Deception  initial correspondence from Raphael referred to recent correspondence from 
Mr F1, which  was upsetting given  that Mr F1 wasnt able to conduct his own affairs.  
-Evasion  Mr F2 had tried repeatedly to register a complaint with Raphael, with no 
success. 
Our service contacted  Raphael. It sent us a file with some details on Mr F1s credit  card.  It 
showed us a cheque issued on 9 March 2017, which was in Mr F1s name. It hasnt  
answered the majority  of the questions that our service put to it on Mr F2s behalf.  
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that Raphael  had never  told us whether it 
had received Mr F2s certified copy of the deputyship order  for Mr F1. So she upheld  Mr F2s 
complaint that this hadnt been  returned to him. She said that Mr F2 had shown us 
correspondence that Raphael hadnt  replied to, so she upheld his complaint that Raphael  
had ignored his correspondence. She said that Raphael had issued a cheque  in Mr F2s 
name after he asked  for the money  owed  to Mr F1 to be paid to him, so she upheld Mr F2s 
complaint that Raphael  had issued an incorrect cheque. She said that Raphael had referred 
to correspondence  from Mr F1, but it was dealing with a web claim for a refund of a payment 
break plan,  rather than correspondence  from Mr F1. So she upheld  Mr F2s complaint that 
Raphael referred  to correspondence from Mr F1 when it hadnt  in fact received  such 
correspondence. 
Our investigator said that our service cant legislate to make  sure that Raphael doesnt do 
this again in future. We could ask Raphael to pay compensation where we thought  that was 
appropriate, and she thought it was appropriate here, so she said that Raphael should pay 
£125 for that. She also said that if Raphael hadnt  yet issued a cheque for the refund in 
Mr F1s name, it should now do that. 
Mr F2, on behalf of Mr F1, didnt agree with that. He said that the compensation wasnt  
enough to make Raphael behave differently in future. He said that he would accept 
compensation of £250, if Raphael also paid some additional money  to a charity of its choice. 
Our investigator said that our service doesnt  have powers to punish businesses for 
wrongdoing. So we wouldnt look to fine Raphael, or otherwise to charge it so much that it 
Ref: DRN97498652wouldnt make  this mistake again.  Instead,  we try to make sure that a business puts the 
customer back in the position that they wouldve been in if the error hadnt  occurred. 
Our investigator also said that because Mr F2, on behalf of Mr F1, hadnt  agreed and 
because Raphael hadnt responded, this case would be passed  to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. And she passed it to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Like our investigator,  I also thought that Raphael had provided  poor service  to Mr F2. It 
wasnt clear whether Raphael lost the copy of the deputyship order that Mr F2 sent it, but 
it hadnt replied  to Mr F2s queries on this, and it ought to have done so. It ought to have 
responded to Mr F2s wider correspondence, and to his complaint.  It ought  not to have 
issued a cheque  in Mr F2s name without his clear and express agreement to that, which 
it doesnt appear to have.  And it shouldve been clear, or as clear as it was able to be, 
about where the initial enquiry  about  a payment break plan refund came from. 
-But, in assessing  this complaint, I had to take account of the fact that this was Mr F1s 
account. He was the account holder, and he is the complainant. When  I considered 
compensation, I needed to consider the impact on him, not on the person who brought 
this complaint on his behalf. I explained  that our rules dont allow  us to award 
compensation for people acting as representatives in cases like this.
-That was difficult in this case, because I thought that almost all of the things that Raphael 
did wrong impacted  Mr F2, not Mr F1. It was Mr F2 who was inconvenienced  by 
Raphaels failure to respond  to his correspondence and by having to ask for a cheque to 
be reissued, and it was Mr F2 who was upset when  Raphael  said it had been 
corresponding with Mr F1. From what Id seen,  those  issues  didnt appear to have  
affected Mr F1. I didnt think that I was able, under the rules  of our service,  to take those 
points into account when I was thinking about  compensation  in this case.
-I recognised the frustration that this would  cause to Mr F2, particularly given how long 
hed waited for this matter  to be resolved. I could only apologise for that. Im not able to 
amend our services  rules on this issue.
-I did think that there was one issue which  would  have  affected Mr F1. Mr F2 told us that 
he sent a certified copy of the deputyship  order he holds for Mr F1 to Raphael, and it 
didnt send it back. I thought that Mr F2 was likely to require such copies, and would now 
need to replace this, and I also thought that Mr F1 was likely to have  to pay for this. For 
those reasons, I thought that Raphael  should pay Mr F1 £100,  to allow  Mr F2 to replace 
this certified copy, which  it seemed likely that Raphael had misplaced. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Our service received no response  from Raphael. Mr F2 wrote to object to our decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ref: DRN97498653Mr F2 told us that hed found numerous inconsistencies within  my decision. Ill deal with his 
points in turn. 
Mr F2 said that the original complaint  was made  by him, not by Mr F1. I dont think Ive 
suggested otherwise.  My decision  does start with the phrase Mr F1 complains  but it goes 
on to explain that this complaint is brought by Mr F2, on behalf of Mr F1. The complaint 
does, however, remain that of Mr F1. 
Our service has strict rules about  who can bring a complaint to us. We simply wouldnt be 
able to consider  a complaint brought by Mr F2 in his own right about these issues.  We can 
only consider what  Mr F2 says because  he complains on behalf of Mr F1, who is Raphaels  
customer. So this is, and must remain, Mr F1s complaint. 
Mr F2 said Id misread compensatory  figures  he quoted  in an earlier email. My provisional 
decision says that Mr F2 said that he would accept compensation of £250, if Raphael also 
paid the same amount to a charity  of its choice.  Rechecking  his email, I can see that he 
wanted a fine of at least  double that to be applied to Raphael.  I apologise  for my oversight, 
and Ive amended  that above. Our service doesnt,  though, have powers to fine businesses, 
as I explained.  So I cant require Raphael to pay a fine of any amount. 
Mr F2 also said that I was wrong  to conclude that he wanted me to fine Raphaels. He said 
hed just asked  for compensation.  But I note that he only wanted  some money paid to him, 
he wanted other money paid to a charity  of Raphaels choice. And our service, broadly 
speaking, looks at compensation  to deal with the effect of a problem on the individual 
concerned. Mr F2 said that he didnt think we had told Raphael  to pay enough  to encourage 
this bank to review and improve  their ethos.  That sounded to me more  like a fine for 
Raphael than compensation  for Mr F2 or Mr F1, so thats why I described what Mr F2 
wanted in this way.  
Mr F2 said that if we cant compensate those who represent complainants, then he shouldve  
been told that earlier. And he said that this had been particularly frustrating, because the 
complaint to us had taken a long time and he thought it had only made the problem worse. 
Mr F2s concerns about our service will be dealt with separately  to my decision on the merits 
of this case. For my part, I can only acknowledge the frustrations  Mr F2 feels. Im sorry Im 
not able to do more in this case.  But Ive considered this case  carefully,  and given the 
constraints of our service, I continue to think that the award I initially proposed is appropriate  
here.
my final decision
My final decision is that R. Raphael & Sons  Plc must  pay Mr F1 £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F2, on behalf  of 
Mr F1, to accept or reject my decision before 7 September  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9749865