K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Plane Saver Credit Union  Limited (Plane Saver)  mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to him alongside a number of loans. 
background
Mr W had taken out PPI alongside 16 loans. I issued  a provisional decision in which I said I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint in respect of two of those policies. I asked the parties  to 
send me any further information they wanted  me to consider before I issued my final decision. 
Mr W responded to say he had nothing further  to add. Plane Saver  did not respond. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints about 
the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.   
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence,  I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  So for the reasons set out in my provisional decision,  I uphold 
the complaint  in respect of Loans  1 and 15 as set out below. Plane Saver  will need to take 
action to put things right for Mr W. 
putting things right 
Plane Saver  must put Mr W in the position he would be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI in 
respect of loans 1 and 15. The PPI should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled  already 
and Plane Saver must:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI in respect  of loans 1 and 15. 
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back.  The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Plane Saver  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Plane Saver to take off tax from this interest. Plane 
Saver must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I have partly upheld this complaint and require Plane Saver Credit  Union Limited  to comply 
with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  219. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92371452COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Plane  Saver Credit Union Limited  (Plane Saver) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance to him alongside  a number of loans. 
background
Between June  2003 and June 2008, Mr W took out 17 loans with Plane  Saver. PPI was sold to him 
alongside 16 of those loans.  For ease of reference, I have set out the borrowing below: 
Loan 1 June 2003
Loan 2 September 2003
Loan 3 January  2004
Loan 4 March  2004
Loan 5 June 2004
Loan 6 August  2004
Loan 7 September 2004
Loan 8 January  2005
Loan 9 March  2005
Loan 10 August  2005
Loan 11 January  2006 NO PPI WAS TAKEN WITH LOAN 11
Loan 12 March  2006
Loan 13 July 2006
Loan 14 February 2007
Loan 15 June 2008
Loan 16 December 2008
Loan 17 July 2009
It is worth noting  that Mr W took out a further eight  loans  after loan 17. However, I have not set that 
borrowing out in detail because  PPI wasnt sold alongside it. 
Our adjudicator thought that PPI for loans  12, 13, 14 and 15 had been mis-sold. She thought  that Plane  
Saver hadnt done enough  to make Mr W aware  that he could have refused the PPI policy for those  
loans if he wanted  to.  She  didnt think the complaint in respect of the other loans should be upheld. 
Plane Saver  didnt agree with our adjudicators  view. It said that it had consistently applied its 
approach to PPI sales and it was not clear how it could  have sold PPI correctly  most of the time, but 
then made  mistakes in other  sales. 
As the parties disagree with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
As things stand, I think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld  in respect of loans 1 and 15 only. Ill 
explain my reasons below. 
Loan 1 
This appears to have been the first loan that Mr W took out with Plane Saver. 
It seems likely to me that the PPI was sold to Mr W during  a meeting between  the parties. I cant know 
what was said during  that meeting, so to help me decide what happened, Ive thought about  what Mr W 
told us. And Ive also had the benefit  of seeing  the loan agreement  and the loan application. 
Ref: DRN92371453I can see from the loan application form that there were two equally prominent boxes to be completed 
 one to indicate that Mr W wanted PPI and another to say he did not. I can see that the yes box has 
been electronically marked  and that accident, sickness and unemployment cover was selected. 
However, Mr W was supposed  to sign that section of the form to confirm  hed chosen  a PPI policy. 
And he hasnt.  
As the box selecting PPI was computer generated and in the absence  of Mr Ws signature,  its not 
clear to me that Mr W agreed to buy the PPI. I cant say that Plane Saver obtained his specific 
consent before the cover  was added to the loan.  
So I provisionally think that the PPI sold alongside loan 1 was mis-sold. As Ive set out below,  Im 
provisionally satisfied that Plane Saver will need to take action  to put that right. 
Loans 2 to 8 
Ive dealt with the PPI sold alongside these  loans  together. Thats because  the paperwork is the same 
for the applications. Also,  Mr Ws employment circumstances were the same for each of the loans. 
Again, it appears  likely  to me that the PPI was sold alongside these loans during  a meeting between  
the parties. As I said above, I cant know what was said to Mr W during those meetings.  I think that 
the discussions Mr W had around PPI are probably  reflected what was in the paperwork. 
Ive thought about whether Mr W would  have known these policies were  optional  and that he didnt have 
to take them out if he didnt want them.  On the application forms,  there were  two equally prominent 
boxes for Mr W to complete  one to say he wanted PPI and another to say he didnt. The box indicating 
that he wanted  cover has been selected. Crucially, Mr W has also signed the relevant section of these 
forms. I think he would have reasonably known that he could have refused this cover  if he didnt want it. 
Im satisfied that the person selling PPI to Mr W probably  made that clear to him as well. 
From the evidence  Ive seen  so far, I dont think Plane Saver advised Mr W to buy these  policies. But 
it still had to give him enough information about the cover so he could decide  for himself  whether it 
was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. 
I accept it is possible that Plane Saver didnt  tell Mr W everything it should  have done about  the cover. 
So the question for me now is whether hed have  changed his mind about buying PPI if Plane  Saver  
had given him all of the relevant information. To help me decide what hes likely  to have done,  Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions  of the policies.  And Ive also looked at what  Mr W told us about his 
personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to make a PPI claim  for loan2, Mr Ws repayments would have been covered 
for up to 24 months  if he became unwell or for 12 months if he was made redundant.  For loans three 
to eight, it appears that the loan repayments would have been covered  for 24 months if he was to 
unwell to work. 
Mr W told us that hed been  in his job for quite a long time and if hed become unwell, he would have 
received full pay for at least six months. He told us that he could  have received this pay for longer at 
the discretion of his manager. Whilst I appreciate  that it was possible for Mr Ws manager to extend  
his sick pay entitlement,  his manager wasnt certain to agree  to an extension.  
Mr W also told us that his trade union would  have  been  able to help him if he was off work. However, I 
think it would be unusual for a union to cover  a members salary for a significant period if they were  
unwell. And in any event, this wasnt something that Mr W would have definitely  been entitled to. With 
all of this in mind, I think that the PPI would have paid out for longer than his guaranteed sick pay 
would have lasted. 
Ref: DRN92371454Mr W told us that he was in good health when he bought this cover. So I dont think hed have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  unusual 
about his circumstances that would  have stopped  him from being able to make a successful claim if 
he needed to. 
Taking all of this together,  I think the PPI could have been helpful to Mr W if he lost his job. And I think 
he probably  chose to buy these policies  so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover.  I dont 
think more or better information about the PPI would  have  put Mr W off buying  it. So Im not proposing  
to uphold the complaint for loans two to eight. 
Loans 9 to 10 
Again, Ive grouped  these  loans  together because  both Mr Ws employment circumstances  and the 
paperwork are the same. Upon considering  that paperwork, it seems likely to me that the PPI was 
sold during  a meeting  between  the parties. And Ive again considered  the available documents  and Mr 
Ws recollection to help be decide what happened during  that meeting. 
As to whether Mr W would  have  known he had a choice about buying  PPI, I can see that the loan 
application form is the same as the previous forms. Mr W has signed to say that he wanted PPI cover 
for accident and sickness. And for the same reasons as already set out above, I think hed have 
known he could refuse to buy the cover. 
I can see that our adjudicator didnt  think Plane Saver had advised Mr W to buy these PPI policies. 
But with respect to our adjudicator, I dont agree. For these loans,  Plane Saver has provided us with a 
demands and needs statement. In those documents, I can see that Plane  Saver  specifically 
recommended this particular policy.  So it had to make sure the cover was suitable  for Mr Ws needs.  
And to help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms of the cover,  as well as Mr Ws 
personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to claim on the PPI policy, Mr W would have been covered for up to 24 
months. His sick pay arrangements were the same as Ive mentioned above.  So for the reasons I gave 
earlier, I think  the PPI would have lasted for longer  than the other means  Mr W had in place in respect 
of his loan. He was in good health and I havent seen anything to suggest that he wouldnt  have been 
able to make  a successful claim  if necessary.  Overall, I think  the cover  probably was suitable. 
Ive also considered that Plane Saver might not have given Mr W all of the relevant  information. But for 
the reasons set out earlier, I think he would have bought this policy  even if Plane Saver had told him 
everything it should have done. Im not proposing  to uphold the complaint  in respect of loans 9 and 10. 
Loan 11
As set out above, the parties appear to agree that PPI was not sold alongside this loan.   I have not 
considered this matter further. 
Loans 12 to 14
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of these loans. She didnt  think it 
had been made clear to Mr W that the cover was optional. It seems to me that the basis of her 
decision was that theres a statement on the demands and needs statement that says failure  to 
complete and return this document will result  in a delay to your loan allocation.
But on considering this document, it is not a PPI application form.  It is a document that reflects the 
discussion around  Mr Ws demands and needs. There is nothing to show Mr Ws acceptance of PPI 
on this document, it is confirmation of his receipt of the summary of the policy, his status  disclosure 
and the policy documents. I note that a similar  document with the same statement about  delaying a 
loan was sent out alongside  the documents for loan 15. And that was when  Mr W had rejected Plane 
Savers recommendation. 
Ref: DRN92371455Thinking in the round about whether Mr W would have known PPI was optional  for these particular  
loans, Im satisfied that he would have known he had a choice about taking  cover in nine previous  
loans. In his PPI questionnaire, he told us that hed been asked whether he wanted the insurance to 
continue. He hasnt suggested that Plane Saver told him cover was compulsory.  On balance,  I think 
Mr W would  have probably known  the policy  was optional. I dont think  the wording on the demands 
and needs statement  would have caused him to change his mind. 
Again, I think  Plane Saver advised Mr W to buy this cover.  For the reasons Ive set out when looking  
at loans  9 and 10, I think the recommendation  was suitable. And as Ive already said, I dont think  
more or better information  about  the cover  would have put Mr W off buying  it. Im not proposing to 
uphold the complaint in respect of loans 12 to 14. 
Loan 15
For loan 15, Ive had the opportunity to consider the demands and needs statement and I can see that 
Mr W signed to say he didnt want the PPI policy. The demands and needs statement  says: 
we are not making any recommendation on the basis that you have indicated from the outset that 
you have no wish to discuss payment protection insurance in relation to your loanYou should  be 
aware that in the event  that you are unable  to work  due to an accident, sickness or unemployment, 
you will still be liable to make the regular repayments to your loan. 
However, I can see from the credit agreement that PPI was added  to the loan and Mr W was charged 
premiums for the cover.  I dont think he consented to PPI alongside  this loan. So I uphold the 
complaint in respect of loan 15.   
Loans 16 and 17
I have dealt with loans 16 and 17 together. This is because both the terms and conditions of the PPI and 
Mr Ws personal circumstances were  the same. The PPI applications are also identical for both loans.  
Looking at the dates  on the loan agreements,  I think  its likely  that these  policies were  sold to Mr W 
over the phone. I cant know  what was said during those calls. I havent been given a call recording. 
Its not clear to me whether Plane Saver routinely  recorded calls. But even if it did, these policies were 
sold over ten years ago and I wouldnt expect recordings  to be retained for so long. Again, to help me 
decide whats  likely to have  happened in this case,  Ive looked at Mr Ws recollections,  along with the 
paperwork that is available from that time. 
I can see from the credit  agreements that there are two relatively prominent  boxes about PPI. The box 
choosing PPI has been selected on both agreements. Theres an equally prominent  box underneath 
that could have  been  selected if Mr W didnt  want the cover. Mr W hasnt signed separately for the 
policy. But the PPI information is just above  his signature. I think Mr W would have seen this before 
he signed the document  and so if he didnt want PPI, I think hed have raised  this at the time.  
The cover  was set up to cover Mr W for accident and sickness only and would have  paid out for up to 
24 months for each  claim. Ive treated these  sales  as advised. But as Ive set out above, I think the 
cover was probably suitable for Mr W as it would  have lasted for longer than his guaranteed  full pay. 
And I dont think hed have been affected  by any of the policys  exclusions. Even if Plane Saver didnt 
tell Mr W everything it should have done, I think PPI could have been  helpful if he was out of work. 
Again, I dont think he would have changed  his mind about the cover for these  two loans even if Plane  
Saver had told him everything it should  have  done  about the PPI. 
I can see that in its correspondence  to our adjudicator, Plane Saver  told us that it had further 
information it wanted me to consider. However, it said that it had not been able to locate that 
information and that it would appeal against my final decision at a later date. I must  make absolutely 
clear to Plane Saver that there is no right of appeal against my final decision.  I have only issued this 
Ref: DRN92371456provisional decision  because  I am proposing to come to a different conclusion to that of our 
adjudicator. If there  is any further information Plane Saver wants  me to consider, it must  take the 
opportunity to provide it in response to this provisional decision. I reiterate that once it is issued, my 
final decision  cannot be changed. 
putting things  right 
As things stand, Im planning  to require  Plane Saver to put Mr W in the position  they would be in now 
if he hadnt  taken out PPI in respect of loans 1 and 15. The policy should  be cancelled, if it hasnt 
been cancelled already, and Plane Saver should:
Pay Mr W the amount  he paid each month for the PPI in respect of loans  1 and 15. 
Add simple interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Plane Saver  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Plane  Saver to take off tax from this interest. Plane  Saver  must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  the complaint in respect of loans 1 and 15. Subject  to any further information 
the parties provide,  Plane  Saver Credit Union Limited will need to take steps to put things  right. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 
12 September 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9237145