K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC closed its bank account and 
will not reopen it.
background
P had an existing account with Barclays. It was asked for more information  about its 
business to check  that it was not carrying out a regulated activity.  P was not able to provide 
this and so the account remains closed. P complains that there had been  an issue  with the 
correspondence address used by Barclays and says that it did not receive the letters.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-A gone away marker was applied to the account in January 2017 and after that 
letters and statements were not sent out.
-Although the director said he updated  the address  with a different part of Barclays  he 
had not given that information to the business banking team. 
-The accounts had first been closed  in February  2018 but were reopened in March  
2018.
-There was a record of a call note with him on 3 April 2018 when the issue  with the 
address was brought to his attention.  P had the opportunity to update the information.
-He did not think further letters had been  sent after this. And the account was closed 
again as P had not been using  it.
-P had not been able to provide Barclays with information about whether its activities 
were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It was unfortunate P was 
unable to get this information but that was not due to an error  by Barclays.
-Although P thought it had been  told it could not apply  for an account  again there  was 
no record of that. But if would  need to make a new account application.
P did not agree. The director said that he thought errors had been made. When the address 
was changed  there  was a redirection service from November 2016 for six months. He was 
unhappy that Barclays had been issuing letters that had no prospect of reaching P. Barclays 
had allowed an extended period for the information  it wanted  but had not made the deadline  
clear. P had lost thousands of pounds invested  in establishing the business.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to set out a bit more detail  about what happened here.  There were two exercises  
being carried out by Barclays. One was because the account of P was dormant and was 
accruing charges and interest. The other was related  to the business activity of P. These  did 
overlap but both resulted  in the same  decision  to close the accounts.
I will set out some of the key dates Ive noted to help explain this below:
Ref: DRN92047672January 2017  - a gone away marker  was applied to the accounts.  P accepts that the 
address had changed and was relying  on a redirection. Barclays says it would be normal  if 
mail had been  returned  for future  mail to be suppressed.
November 2017- the account had been dormant for some  time. Under  the terms and 
conditions of the account this would be grounds to close the account  especially as there was 
an overdraft. It is clear  that the letter about this was not sent to P as there was no address 
on it and it was marked not mailed.
15 February 2018 - Barclays decided  to review the business of P and see whether it is 
regulated or not. It had first carried out this exercise  when the account was opened in 2015. 
It noted that it called  P about  this and left a message and also sent a letter.
25 February 2018 - the account  is closed  due to dormancy and Barclays  writes off the 
overdraft of £102.61.
13 March 2018  - the account was reopened following  a complaint by P and Barclays accepts 
that the letter about closure had not been sent.
3 April 2018 - there is a contact note of a call in which Barclays  tells P that there is a gone 
away marker and that it needs to update the address.
17 April 2018 - a further dormancy letter  is generated. This says that the account  is due to 
be closed on 16 July 2018 as it is not being  used. This would  be stopped if a credit is paid in.
3 May 2018  - the director  of P is in contact  with Barclays about the information requirements 
for its business and asks for a further extension. Hes provided a related exchange of emails 
that continue up to 8 July 2018.
4 July 2018 - Barclays issues a letter  to P saying  that further to a conversation and the 
previous requests the information is now urgent  and needs to be provided by 11 July 2018.  
12 July 2018 - Barclays issues a notice saying  the account will close in 60 days  with a 
deadline expiring  on 10 September 2018.
12 September 2018  the director phones to complain about  the decision  and says that he 
had not received any letters. And that he still has not had an answer from the FCA. He has 
taken legal advice  and been told that P did not need to be regulated.  He does not want  to 
spend more money  on professionals  to confirm  that. He wants  the account for P to be re-
opened.
18 September 2018- Barclays issues a final response to the address for P its had since  April 
2018 and says P would  need to start a new application now and that the previous account 
could not be reopened.
Ref: DRN92047673assessment
Our adjudicator took the view that he could not find that any letters were sent to P. The 
information held against the address  for statements for P is that the gone  away  marker was 
not removed before the account  was closed. And any evidence  about when the address  was 
changed was lost when the account  was closed.  So I agree its safest to work  on the basis 
that P did not get these  letters.  
But that wont affect my assessment here. One reason is because it was Ps responsibility to 
keep the address details up to date. P fairly knew about the issue  with the correspondence 
address when it complained about the account being closed the first time. And theres a 
record it was also told about this in a call in April 2018. A further reason is that I cant see 
any evidence of the account  of P being used. And the official  returns  for P indicate that it is a 
dormant company. The issue for the director is the investment put into P not it seems  to me 
any impact on immediate  trading income. 
The most important point though is about  the information requirement  from Barclays. Ive 
seen the evidence P provided about  its activities before it opened the account in 2015  and 
the confirmation it then received from the FCA. I think it was reasonable for Barclays  to want  
to review that and confirm  the position  had not changed. Whether or not P received letters 
about this its clear it had email exchanges with Barclays. It was given an extended  period to 
obtain the information. I dont think it was unreasonable  for Barclays to decide that P had 
been given sufficient time and to close the accounts for that reason. As Ive indicated above 
that overlapped with a decision to close the accounts based  on dormancy too. But the 
reason the account would not be reinstated was because P could not provide the evidence  
Barclays wanted.
Taking all this into account I dont think Barclays decision to close Ps accounts and then to 
require it to complete  a new application if it wanted  accounts again was unreasonable. Even  
if, as P says, all the letters did not reach  it I think it was clear what information Barclays 
needed to prevent the account closing and P was unfortunately not able to provide this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9204767