K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about problems he had accessing his account through  HSBC  UK Bank  plcs 
online banking service.
background
In October  2018, Mr M found he couldnt log into online banking. He phoned  HSBC  and 
explained the trouble he was having. He also said hed had difficulties before. He felt the 
staff members he spoke to were unhelpful,  and he asked to raise  a complaint.
HSBC said Mr M was registered to use a digital secure key on his mobile phone to access  
online banking. It also said he could only have one type of secure key active  on his account 
at a time.  So when  Mr M had tried to use an old physical secure key to log in, it didnt work 
and locked him out. 
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  had done  anything wrong.  Mr M didnt accept that and 
asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he could no longer remember the full facts of 
what had happened, but he had tried to log into online banking a different way in October 
because he was having trouble logging in as he usually did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was struggling to log into online banking and I can see why this was frustrating. But I 
dont think this was because of a mistake  by HSBC. Ive listened to a recording of Mr Ms 
phone call with HSBC  on 12 October. In it, Mr M explained that he could no longer  use 
mobile banking  on his phone, because the size of the HSBC  app had increased  so much 
that it was too big for his phone. The digital secure  key is part of the mobile  banking  app. So 
it seems from what Mr M said that he tried to use the physical key instead because  he could 
no longer use the app  and not because of any issues with HSBCs service.
In any case, during the phone call with Mr M HSBC  offered to help him reset  his online 
banking so he could  use it again. I think that was a reasonable step for it to have taken. It 
also told him how to log in without any secure key at all, and apologised for any 
inconvenience or frustration he had experienced. I think that was fair, and I find no grounds  
to require HSBC  to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9495515