K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained ReAssure Limited mis-sold him a life assurance policy that he didnt need. 
background
In 1987 Mr B took out a mortgage via ReAssure Limited and was sold a life assurance policy 
at the same  time. ReAssure Limited says it was a condition of the mortgage borrowing for 
Mr B to take out the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. He thought  that as Mr B was 
told it was compulsory for the mortgage, Mr B couldve chosen not to take out this mortgage 
and to shop around  for one which didnt have  these lending requirements. 
Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. He says that the policy was mis-sold to him 
because he didnt have  any dependants  so he didnt need the benefit the policy  wouldve 
provided. He also says he is unhappy that he wasnt told what  commission he was being 
charged for the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Due to the time thats passed since the mortgage  and policy were taken out, there  is limited  
information available from the sale. But ReAssure Limited has told us that it was compulsory  
for Mr B to take out the policy if he wanted the mortgage. Mr B isnt happy with this but 
lenders are allowed to set conditions on the lending offered  as long as they make this clear  
to the consumer. Based on Mr Bs recollection  of the sale it seems  he was aware the policy  
was compulsory and, as our adjudicator said, he couldve  gone elsewhere if he wasnt  happy 
with these conditions  or if he felt the policy wouldnt have been of any use to him. 
Even though  Mr B didnt have any dependants, I think there is still some benefit  in having a 
life cover policy that would pay off the mortgage  if Mr B died.  And it would certainly give the 
lender some  assurance  that if this unfortunate event occurred,  there wouldnt be any risk the 
mortgage wouldnt be repaid. So I dont think it was an unreasonable  condition  for granting 
Mr B the mortgage. 
Mr B has complained about being  unaware  of the commission  he was charged on the policy. 
However, I have to take into account  of how long ago this sale was. In 1987 insurance sales  
were only subject to common law, which didnt recognise the concept  of mis-selling and 
only placed a duty on professionals to exercise reasonable care to avoid actual 
misrepresentations (which  is not the sale as a positive duty to sell fairly); and to make  sure 
that any advice  given was accurate in line with received wisdom. But, as I said above, there 
is very little evidence available from the time of sale, and I wasnt  present in the meeting to 
comment on what may or may not have  been discussed. From what little information I have 
seen and been told I cant fairly conclude that ReAssure Limited didnt exercise reasonable 
care to avoid misrepresenting Mr B. So I havent found any evidence that ReAssure Limtied  
did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN97461732my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9746173