K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains American Express Services Europe  Limited (AESEL) cancelled a benefit 
associated with his gold credit card and subsequently handled his complaint poorly.
background 
Mr C had a gold credit card account  with AESEL. Whilst raising a different complaint with 
AESEL he decided to close  his gold credit card account. This happened in November 2018. 
Despite the credit card account being cancelled  Mr C believed he had been assured he 
would still be able to use one of the benefits  associated with the card. Whilst on a trip in 
July 2018 he discovered this was incorrect. As he was hoping to use the benefit again soon 
after he telephoned AESEL and requested an urgent response.
After Mr C came to this service AESEL  has accepted  it made a number of errors whilst 
dealing with Mr C. These  are:
Failing to tell Mr C that once  the cancellation of the gold card is notified to the 
provider of the benefit Mr C wouldnt be able to access the benefit;
Failing to be clear about there  being only be a partial refund of the gold card fee;
Assuming an incorrect cancellation  date of April 2018 in one of its final response 
letters and providing an incorrect explanation  of events based on this false  
assumption; and
Failing to apologise  for the above errors  once these were realised.
Following mediation with the adjudicator  AESEL  offered to:
Pay £30 which would cover the cost of using the benefit twice
Remove the residual  fee of £38.36 left on the account
Pay £120 compensation
The adjudicator thought  AESELs offer was fair. She confirmed that AESEL had told her that 
the residual fee hadnt been reported to credit reference agencies.
Mr C did not think it was fair. He thinks not all the complaint points  he has raised have been 
addressed. He gives as an example the fact that he has had two final response letters which  
both state different dates on which he has purportedly closed his account.  He wants 
confirmation of when his account was closed. He thinks the fact that new passes to enable 
him to use the benefit were sent out after he closed the account shows that either AESEL 
knew the passes  would  not work when they arrived but told him otherwise to get rid of his 
complaint, or it expected them to work which means the person offering him the redress for 
complaint expected them to work  and therefore considering this information was passed on 
to him AESEL should abide by it. He also has concerns with the level of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  given  what he says are the amount of fraudulent information 
and general lies told to him.
The adjudicator issued a second  view. In it she said agreed that the first final response  letter  
had an incorrect closure date in it. But she pointed out the second final response letter  had 
the correct date and AESEL  offered  compensation which  she thought  was fair and 
reasonable for the error.  She didnt  agree  with Mr C that there was an intentional mistake by 
AESEL regarding the benefit  associated  with the gold card.  And she thought the overall 
compensation offered was fair.
Ref: DRN98536462Mr C again disagreed. Mr C insists he was promised the benefit associated  with the gold 
card. He is also unhappy with the different dates given for when he closed his account; he 
says this is a major issue for him and he would like confirmation of when exactly his account 
was closed and confirmation that no adverse  credit  markers will ever appear  against his 
name owing to AESEL's error in closing his account. He also doesnt agree that the 
compensation offered covers the distress and inconvenience caused to him which came 
after a very long journey. 
The adjudicator responded to say that it was agreed by both parties that AESEL had made  
an error regarding  the benefit. And AESEL  has confirmed that no negative marks have 
been left on Mr Cs credit file. Finally she confirmed that Mr Cs account was closed on 
22 November 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I want to make it clear that I am not looking at the complaint Mr C raised  with AESEL in 
2017. I am only looking at his 2018 complaint.
Secondly, Mr C is concerned about any adverse markers on his credit file. AESEL has told 
this service the residual  fee isnt reported  to credit reference agencies. If Mr C finds this is 
incorrect he can return to this service.
It is agreed by both parties that: 
Mr C wasnt  unreasonable  in thinking  he would  be able to access the benefit 
associated with the gold card even though  he no longer has a gold card;
Mr C wasnt  able to access that benefit after he had a very lengthy  journey and feels  
let down
There were  mistakes  in the handling of Mr Cs complaint
Both parties  dont agree on what would be fair compensation.
Mr C has said the two final response  letters referred to different closure dates for his 
account. That is correct  and unfortunate. AESEL accepted this as soon as it looked  at the 
complaint again  once  it had come to this service. The correct closure date is 
22 November 2017. 
Mr C doesnt think that all his points have been  fully addressed or understood and he thinks I 
should listen to some of the early calls. The calls from 2017 arent available. I have read all 
the information on this file and I think the adjudicator has addressed  all of Mr Cs main  
points. Mr C seems  to be particularly focussed on the fact that he thinks  AESEL has told lies 
and/or acted fraudulently. I cant see any evidence for this. I think it is far more likely that 
where AESEL has said something that isnt true it has made a mistake. 
Ref: DRN98536463When I initially looked at the complaint I asked AESEL to provide me with some  evidence 
regarding the frequency  with which the benefit  can be used  and the cost for additional  use or 
use with a guest.  Having done  so Im satisfied that at the time Mr C was denied  access to 
the benefit that an AESEL gold card holder could access the benefit twice a year and it 
would cost them £15 to bring a guest. Subsequently  the cost for a guest has risen  to £20. I 
asked AESEL if it would agree  to compensate Mr C with an additional £10 (that is two further 
£5s). It agreed.
Mr C thinks AESEL should  be required to provide  him with the benefit rather than 
compensation. I considered whether to make this award. Mr C has said that AESEL told him 
lies. As Ive said I cant see any evidence that AESEL lied. The fact that Mr C does 
characterise AESEL  as telling lies persuades me that his relationship with AESEL has 
broken down. When relations between parties  have broken down I think it is usually better to 
award monetary compensation if possible and that is what  I intend to do here.
I have looked  at the overall compensation offered by AESEL including the additional £10 
offered after I looked at the case.  Overall I think it adequately compensates  Mr C for all the 
errors made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order American Express  Services  Europe 
Limited (AESEL) to:
pay Mr C £40 which would cover the cost of using the benefit twice;
remove the residual  fee of £38.36  left on the account if it hasnt already done so; and
pay Mr C a further £120 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9853646