K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that when he was injured and tried to make  a claim under his medical 
insurance, it was declined by AXA PPP Healthcare  (AXA) due to an exclusion. 
background
Mr R bought a medical insurance policy through an insurance intermediary. In October  2018  
he made a claim for treatment which related to an injury sustained  whilst playing rugby.
AXA refused  to pay the claim on the basis of an exclusion in the policy. Mr R says that he 
only took the policy out for the purpose  of covering any injuries caused whilst  playing  sport,  
he therefore feels that the policy  has been mis-sold. He has asked that AXA either cover the 
claim or refund the premiums paid for the policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the terms and conditions  
contained the exclusion relied  on by AXA. She also explained that AXA wasnt responsible  
for the sale of the policy, so she couldnt comment on this further.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I also wont be considering the sale of the policy as part of my decision. This is because AXA 
didnt sell the policy. As our investigator has pointed out, any concerns about  the sale would 
need to be directed to the seller of the policy. 
Mr R plays rugby, and whilst he says he isnt professional, he is sponsored  and paid for his 
participation. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs policy say:
We do not cover  treatment you need  as a result of training for or taking  part in any sport  for 
which you:
are paid
receive a grant or sponsorship (we do not count travel costs  in this), or
are competing for prize money.
I am sorry  to hear that Mr R was injured whilst playing sport, and I understand he doesnt 
play this professionally. However whilst  he wasnt playing  professionally, he was being 
sponsored to play at the time.  
Every insurance policy  will contain a number of exclusions in the terms and conditions. And 
unfortunately Mr Rs policy does contain  an exclusion for treatment required as a result of 
playing sport  whilst sponsored. With this in mind I am unable to say AXA has acted 
unreasonably in applying the above exclusion and declining the claim as the policy doesnt 
provide cover for this.
Ref: DRN96183192As mentioned above, I cant consider what was and wasnt discussed during the sale of the 
policy as part of this decision. But Mr R has mentioned that the policy was originally sold in 
2013 so the terms  must have been  introduced  by AXA at a later date. AXA acquired another  
insurers book of business in July 2016. In advance of this, in May 2016, AXA has said all 
members were contacted  to explain this, and to decide whether they wanted  to continue with 
the cover.
Whilst AXA has been unable to provide a copy of the letter that was sent at the time, it has 
provided the policy documents from 2016 onwards.  Since the change in underwriter  to AXA,  
these do contain  the same  exclusion  relating to sporting injuries whilst being sponsored. I 
cant therefore conclude  this has been  introduced since  AXA acquired the policy  from the 
previous insurer. 
In the circumstances there is no basis for me to ask AXA to pay the claim or to refund  the 
premiums that Mr R has paid.
my final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no award  against  AXA PPP 
Healthcare.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9618319