K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about how Sainsburys Bank  Plc administered her credit  card account.
background
In August  2018  the format  of Miss As Sainsburys Bank credit card statements changed.  
She found the new format confusing and says it caused her to be charged interest as she 
was unclear about what she needed  to pay to clear  her balance  in full. She complained to 
Sainsburys Bank. She asked for:
-the format to be changed back;
-the interest to be refunded; and
-her forename initial  to be removed from her name on her statements.
She later added that Sainsburys Bank  had lost a cheque and that this resulted in her 
balance being  higher  than it should have been, which led to her being charged further 
interest.
Sainsburys Bank responded  to Miss As concerns. It said it:
-wouldnt change the statement format, but that it had taken her feedback on-board;
-had refunded some interest, but the rest would stand as it had been applied  correctly;
-couldnt remove her forename  initial for regulatory reasons; and 
-acknowledged a cheque might have been  missing and asked Miss A to cancel it. 
Miss A wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys Banks  response so she asked our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator looked  into matters  and concluded that Sainsburys 
Bank had treated Miss A fairly. This was because he was satisfied:
-Miss As statements included the information  they needed to;
-Sainsburys Bank had applied interest in line with the account terms and conditions;
-It wasnt wrong for Sainsburys Bank to include Miss As forename initial  in 
correspondence; and
-Sainsburys Bank had, on balance, not lost Miss As cheque.  
Miss A didnt think the investigator had reached  a fair outcome on the complaint as she 
remained of the opinion interest  had been  charged  to her account  incorrectly. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Miss A doesnt  like the change in the format of her credit card statements. But its 
for Sainsburys Bank to decide what format to use and I cant  see that any key information is 
missing or inadequately  presented. I dont think Sainsburys Bank did anything wrong here.
Miss A says she was confused by the statements following the change which meant  she 
didnt know how much she needed  to pay, and that this led to her being charged interest on 
her balance. I have some  sympathy  for Miss A here. But in my view,  if she found the new 
Ref: DRN95006712format confusing and wasnt sure what to pay, she ought reasonably  to have asked 
Sainsburys Bank for assistance. I cant see that she did. It follows that I dont think  I can 
fairly say Sainsburys Bank  is responsible for Miss A incurring interest.
Turning to the interest, Miss As account terms and conditions say:
3.5 You won't be charged interest on purchases  shown on your statement provided  that you 
pay the total balance shown on that statement by the payment date (and have also paid the 
total balance on the previous statement by the payment date).  When  we do charge interest 
on a transaction,  we do so from the date that the amount was first charged to your account.
And;
3.6 If you don't  pay the total balance shown on your statement, at your next statement date 
we may add the interest we have  charged  on the unpaid amount to the balance  we charge 
interest on  
Miss A says, with the exception of one payment, she always  paid her balance  in full, each 
month, so she shouldnt have been charged  any interest. Shes  provided  her own records to 
support her position.  Her records  are detailed, but they dont  quite match her credit  card 
statement cycle. So Ive gone through Miss As credit card statements and can see the 
following:
-From  January 2018 to July 2018 Miss A paid off her balance in full, so no interest  
was charged to the account.
-Miss As August 2018 statement said she needed to pay £128.12 by 3 September  
2018 to pay off her full balance. She only paid £100, meaning she hadnt repaid the 
balance in full, which resulted in £5.05  of interest  being charged on her September  
2018 statement.
-Miss As September 2018  statement  said she needed to pay £434.69 by 2 October 
2018 to pay off her full balance. She paid £429.64, meaning she hadnt repaid her 
balance in full. This resulted in £6.29 of further interest being charged on her October 
2018 statement.
-Miss As October 2018 statement said she needed to pay £296.81  by 2 November 
2018 to pay off her full balance. She paid £291.76. This led to further interest  being  
charged on her next statement.
-Miss As November 2018 statement said she needed to pay £423.74 by 3 December 
2018 to pay off her full balance. She paid £100.  Miss A says a cheque  for £315.17 
was sent, but not cashed. Ill come  on to that. But £415.17 (£100 + £315.17)  still 
wouldnt have paid off the full balance.  This statement also included  a refund of the 
interest charged on her October  2018  statement  - £6.29  - which  was done as a 
gesture of goodwill. As the balance wasnt repaid  in full further interest was charged 
on Miss As next statement.
-Miss As December 2018 statement said she needed to pay £651.90 by 1 January  
2019 to pay off her full balance. She paid £322.14. This led to further interest  being  
charged on her next statement.
Ref: DRN95006713-Miss As January 2019  statement said she needed to pay £771.47 by 1 February  
2019 to pay off her full balance. She paid £645.01. This led to further interest  being  
charged on her next statement.
-Miss As February 2019 statement said she needed to pay £704.47  by 3 March  2019 
to pay off her full balance.  She paid £100. This led to further interest being charged 
on her next statement.
-Miss As March 2019 statement  said she needed  to pay £722.14 by 1 April 2019 to 
pay off her full balance. She paid £100. This led to further interest  being  charged on 
her next statement.
-Miss As April 2019 statement said she needed  to pay £901.97 by 4 May 2019 to pay 
off her full balance. She paid £267.87. This led to further interest  being  charged on 
her next statement.
Miss A didnt pay off her full balance by the 3 September 2018 due date, which  led to 
interest being charged. Her full balance wasnt paid following this, which resulted in further 
interest being charged. I accept Miss A made a mistake in relation to her August 2018 
statement. But from what Ive seen, based  on how payments were made to the account, 
interest has been charged correctly. As a gesture of goodwill Sainsburys Bank did refund 
some of the interest. However, as it hasnt done  anything wrong  in charging the interest it 
has, I dont think  I can fairly  ask it to refund any more.
Miss A says she sent Sainsburys Bank  a cheque for £315.17 along with a letter on 
19 November 2018. Sainsburys  Bank  has provided a copy of the letter, so Im satisfied the 
letter was sent and received. I cant be certain,  however,  that a cheque was enclosed  with it. 
On the one hand, Miss A appears to have  sent cheques with other letters  which were 
cashed by Sainsburys  Bank. On the other hand,  if Sainsbury Bank  had received this 
cheque, it stands to reason it would have  cashed it, as it did the others.  
But Im not persuaded it makes a material difference  either  way. I say this because Miss A 
could have cancelled  the cheque and reissued  it (as Sainsburys Bank  advised  her to). I 
cant see that she did, and therefore dont think she mitigated the impact of the value of the 
cheque not crediting her account. Because of this Im not going to ask Sainsburys Bank  to 
rework the account  as if the cheque had been cashed.
Im aware that Miss A doesnt like Sainsburys Bank  using her forename initial.  Sainsburys 
Bank has explained that its required  to hold a customers full name for regulatory reasons  
and that this means it will appear  on Miss As statements. I think this is most likely the case. I 
dont require Sainsburys Bank to change the way it corresponds with Miss A.
Ref: DRN95006714I have some sympathy for Miss A. She clearly  keeps meticulous records and feels strongly 
shes been charged interest  when she shouldnt have been.  But from what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded Sainsburys Bank has acted outside  the account terms and conditions,  or treated 
her unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
James Langford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9500671