K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC wrongly recommended  a life and critical illness 
insurance policy in 2000 given she had sufficient cover via her employer, and that she was 
pressurised into taking out this unnecessary policy.
background
Mrs D said that her employee benefits  included six months full pay and six months  half pay 
(in the event  of being ill) and that she did not need any further cover, particularly given she 
didnt have any dependents. She said she never  told the advisor that she wanted  her 
mortgage to be paid off in the event of her death  so her relatives wouldnt inherit  this debt, 
and his written record was therefore an invention.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
He felt the evidence indicated that Lloyds made clear that the policy was not a condition  of 
the further mortgage advance, meaning  Mrs D had been in a position to decide whether or 
not to go ahead the recommendation.  He noted  that she had signed  the relevant  
documentation and had not chosen to cancel despite having plenty of opportunity to do so.
He also didnt feel it was inappropriate  to recommend bespoke protection  for a mortgage,  
specifically covering its size and term,  as any workplace protection  was not designed  to 
match this particular commitment,  could be withdrawn at any point  and would automatically 
end if someone changed  jobs. It also did not guarantee to pay off a specific mortgage  debt.
Mrs D did not agree, and said:
She didnt agree  that shed been  given all the relevant  information  at the point of sale 
or that shed  said what the advisor  had written down
She had no need for this policy and had been  pressurised  into taking it out
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation). In this context I do not think 
there is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that the advisor  did offer poor or unsuitable 
advice.
The advisor appears to have provided specific cost comparisons to demonstrate the 
potential advantages of taking out this new policy which  provided  life and critical illness  
cover for Mrs Ds entire  mortgage debt. He also explained that if she went  ahead  with this 
plan she should  cancel her existing life cover policy. I recognise that Mrs D does  not accept 
the accuracy of some  of the advisors record but I am satisfied that he offered  a reasonable 
explanation for his recommendation.  Mrs Ds signature indicates, although does  not prove, 
that she saw and shouldve checked the accuracy  of his notes. 
Ref: DRN93256842There was also, for various  reasons, a three  month gap before the policy  could begin  so I 
feel Mrs D had sufficient time to raise any questions  about his recommendations and cancel 
the policy if she wasnt convinced it was right for her.
I do not doubt Mrs Ds recollection  about  what was allegedly said,  and not said.  Nor can I be 
certain that the advisors record was a 100% accurate account  of what  was discussed. But in 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to either conclude that the advice was clearly 
wrong or that the advisor did not give Mrs D sufficient time or information to make  an 
informed decision about whether to go ahead with the recommendation. I dont feel there is 
sufficient evidence about either  of these issues to uphold the complaint.
I acknowledge that Mrs D said she felt pressurised into agreeing to the recommendation but 
given the fact that the conversation took place  nearly 20 years ago, I dont believe I can 
come to a definite conclusion  about this issue, particularly in the absence of any other 
supporting evidence.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9325684