K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr V says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made  it clear that Mr V didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it 
out. I say this because  Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form which was 
completed during  the meeting he had in branch and a printed cross  has been placed  in the 
box next to the credit card repayment  insurance  the name used by BoS for PPI. Mr V has 
signed and dated the form.
Mr V has commented on the cross being  printed on the form and therefore  pre-selected. 
Whilst the cross has been pre-printed on the form, I think its likely this answer would have 
reflected the conversation he had with BoS in the meeting. Ive also seen that it says you 
should mark the relevant boxes If you would like to take advantage of these services  
which indicates that you could leave them blank if you didnt want  the cover.  If the PPI 
hadnt been explained as optional in the discussion,  I think Mr V would have questioned this 
with BoS when he saw that this wasnt a mandatory product. So, on balance, I think  BoS 
made Mr V aware  that the policy was optional and he chose to take it, knowing he could 
refuse it if he didnt want it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr V so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover. Mr V has told us he would have only received statutory sick pay if 
he was too ill to work at the time of the sale but that this would change to three  months full 
pay, followed by three  months half pay a few months later. He also told us he had some 
savings. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr V had been unable  to 
work due to accident, sickness or if he had lost his job. And this would  have been  in addition 
to, and potentially for longer than, his sick pay. The policy would also have enabled him to 
protect his savings or use them  to cover other essential living  expenses. So I think this policy 
could have provided a useful benefit  to him.
Mr V has also told us he had life and critical illness policies at the time of the sale.  But these 
policies provide a different benefit  to the PPI and would normally  only issue  a lump sum for 
specific severe medical conditions or death. So I dont think  that Mr V having  these  policies 
makes a difference to my outcome.
Its possible  the information BoS gave Mr V about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
Ref: DRN92342402affordable. So I dont  think better  information  about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr V paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr V back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand  BoS has already paid this to Mr V.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9234240