K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Ageas Insurance Limited turned down a claim for storm damage 
under their buildings  insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs L made a claim for storm damage in November 2018. They said the storm had 
caused damage to their roof allowing  water  to enter their property.  Their  roof is partly  tiled 
and partly flat.
Ageas sent an inspector to look at the damage. The inspector  said there was no evidence of 
any storm damage, and initially  thought there may be a leaking pipe. Ageas therefore 
advised Mr and Mrs L their storm claim had been declined.   
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with this  they said Ageas inspector hadnt properly inspected  
the roof as hed stood 50 feet away from the property.
Ageas looked  at the photos  provided by its inspector and agreed they werent clear. It 
therefore went back to the inspector, who then provided further comments. The inspector 
said the entire roof was in need  of repair, and the tiled roof had significant moss growth 
between the tiles. The inspector said the moss can only absorb so much water  before it will 
allow water ingress to take place. The inspector provided further photos in support of this. 
Based on the additional  information  provided  by its inspector, Ageas turned down the claim 
as it thought the damage had happened gradually  rather than a storm. Unhappy  with this, Mr 
and Mrs L brought  a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt  think thered been a 
storm, and so concluded the damage couldnt  have  been caused  by a storm.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Was the damage caused by a storm?
Mr and Mrs Ls policy covers them against damage  caused by certain events, one of those 
being storm damage. They dont  have accidental damage cover.  
Mr and Mrs L say there were gale force winds as well as heavy rain on the night in question,  
which they think caused damage  to their roof allowing water to enter. 
The policy doesnt  define what is meant  by a storm. In such cases  we usually say a storm 
should involve  violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.  Ive therefore 
considered an independent weather report in order to decide whether there was a storm. 
Ref: DRN90266252The weather  report Ive looked at has provided data from a weather station nine miles away 
from Mr and Mrs Ls home address.  This says the strongest gust of wind recorded  that day 
was 22 miles per hour, and the maximum hourly rainfall recorded was 7.4mm.
Whilst I accept  there was some heavy  rainfall, this wasnt accompanied by strong winds.  
That being  the case, Im not persuaded there was a storm. That means  the damage couldnt  
have been caused by a storm. 
In turning down  Mr and Mrs Ls claim, Ageas said the moss  on the roof was absorbing  
rainwater and allowing  it to enter  the property. It said this wasnt  storm damage, but was 
damage that occurs  gradually over time, which it said was excluded  under the policy.  
As Mr and Mrs L havent shown that damage was caused to their property by a storm (or any 
other specified event  covered by their policy), I dont need to make  a decision on what  
actually caused  the damage. I think Ageas has confused matters a little here, as it only 
needed to consider whether the damage  had been  caused by a storm, or one of the other  
insured events under the policy.
Other issues
Mr and Mrs L say the impression they got from Ageas inspector was that there was wear  
and tear to their flat roof. They say they paid a roofer  to re-do the flat roof, and their roofer  
advised them the leak wasnt coming  through the flat roof, and instead  was coming through 
the tiles on the main  roof.
Ageas inspector had said he thought the flat roof was showing signs of dipping  which he 
thought was a clear  sign it needed to be replaced. However, it was Mr and Mrs Ls decision 
to have repairs carried out to the flat roof. Although their roofer thought the rainwater had 
entered via the main roof, as Ive said above, I dont need to consider  this. Mr and Mrs L 
havent shown  that damage was caused by a storm (or any other event covered by their 
policy) so I dont need to make a finding on how the rainwater was able to enter the property. 
Mr and Mrs L point out that Ageas inspector initially thought there may be a leaking pipe. 
They disagreed with this, and maintained the water had come  through the main roof and 
then through the ceiling. This was later confirmed by their roofer.
However, after referring their complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs L noted their policy  had 
provision for trace and access for water leaks. They think Ageas ought to have offered them  
this option so they could  have found the source of the leak.
The policy says an insured event covered by the policy is water leakage. It defines  this as 
Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed domestic water  or drainage installation, heating 
installation, washing machine, dishwasher, water  bed, fish tank, refrigerator or deep freeze 
cabinet. 
It then says under the water leakage section  that Ageas  will pay for trace & access,  and 
describes this as the  reasonable costs  you have to pay to find where the leak is coming 
from, including the cost of repairs to walls, floors  or ceilings up to £5,000.
The policy says it excludes  repairs to pipework.
Ref: DRN90266253Our usual  approach to claims for trace and access is that thered need to be evidence that a 
water leak was coming from part of the water and heating system in the home. We wouldnt 
expect an insurer to provide trace and access cover  to find the source of a leak through a 
roof for example.
Ageas accepts that its inspector initially thought that there may be a leak from pipework that 
was causing the damage.  Mr and Mrs L were  advised that theyd need to have this 
investigated at their own cost. Its not clear if Ageas advised Mr and Mrs L of this, or if 
Ageas inspector did. Either way, I think this was wrong. Ageas  ought to advised Mr and Mrs 
L that they had trace and access  cover, which  they could have used. I appreciate the policy 
excludes repairs to pipework. However, if there had been a leak,  this would have needed to 
be traced in the first instance  before Ageas could say whether or not it was excluded.  
Having said that, I dont think Ageas failure  to advise  Mr and Mrs L of their trace  and access 
cover has had a financial  impact on them. I say that because Mr and Mrs L didnt  arrange  for 
anyone to investigate  whether there was a leaking  pipe in their house.  Instead they had their 
flat roof replaced,  and their roofer found that the water was entering  through the main roof. 
We therefore know there wasnt a leaking pipe in their house that needed tracing,  as the 
water was coming through the roof. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9026625