K821x#15complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  hasnt refunded  her after she 
was the victim of a scam.  She says she made the payment after being  reassured by a 
branch employee.  
background
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties,  so Ill only provide an 
overview of the key events here.  
On 18 July 2017, Mrs R made an international payment  for £1,835.54 in branch. She thought  
she was paying  to secure rental of a holiday villa in Spain, but it turned out to be a scam.
Bank of Scotland tried to recover  the money Mrs R had sent but was unsuccessful.  It said it 
was unable to refund the money  as Mrs R had willingly transferred it. It wasnt able to identify 
the staff member that helped Mrs R on the day she made the payment but said it would have 
ultimately been for Mrs R to verify  the recipient and to determine  whether the transaction 
was going to a legitimate account.  
Unhappy with the banks position,  Mrs R referred her complaint to us. Our investigator  
looked into the matter and didnt  think the payment was an unusual amount for Mrs R to 
spend. She noted the bank had said it wouldnt  have  discussed anything  specific  about  
scams with Mrs R as the payment wasnt for a high value. Our investigator  wasnt  persuaded 
Mrs R would have acted  any differently even if the bank had asked further questions at the 
time the payment was made. She pointed  out that Mrs R thought the holiday company was 
genuine and that she would have  wanted to make  the payment as soon as she could to 
secure a promised discount on the booking. 
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators position.  She highlighted  the booking was a year in 
advance and she would have had plenty of time to look for an alternative.  She asked for her 
complaint to be considered afresh  by an ombudsman,  so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
When I reviewed  the file, I noted  Mrs R had told us she was nervous about making the 
transfer because  shed been  the victim of another scam in the past. Mrs R says she went 
into branch, spoke with a branch colleague and showed them her paperwork. She says the 
banks employee  then made the payment using an iPad. Mrs R says the banks employee 
told her the payment would be fine as long as she wasnt negligible [sic].  
I thought it was more  likely than not that something about the payment was discussed at the 
time it was made, even  though the bank had said it wouldnt have gone through any details.
Mrs R said the fact I had a contract which the lady at the Halifax  said would prove I was 
being responsible had everything to do with me going ahead with the booking. I thought 
Mrs Rs recollections suggested there  had been  a discussion around negligence (my 
emphasis) and that the branch colleague should  have used their knowledge  and experience 
of scams to help Mrs R reflect on whether the situation was legitimate. 
I noted that an international payment was not something Mrs R typically did. I also noted that 
Mrs R recalled showing the relevant paperwork to the branch  colleague  when inputting  the 
payment information  into the iPad.  Having  looked  at this paperwork, I noticed  the address  of 
Ref: DRN95949422the receiving bank was in Germany, not Spain,  which  seemed unusual  in the context of the 
transaction Mrs R thought  she was making.  I was persuaded by what  Mrs R had said about 
going into branch  for peace  of mind and I felt the branch missed the opportunity to help her. 
I thought the bank  should have intervened by telling Mrs R what  scams  of this nature 
typically look and feel like, and had it done so appropriately, it would have prevented  the loss 
as Mrs R would not have gone on to make the payment to the scammer. I shared my 
thoughts with the bank.
Bank of Scotland did not agree that it should have  intervened further or that its intervention 
would have made a difference.  It pointed  out Mrs R regularly used online banking to make 
transfers. It said she had made  124 online  transactions in the two years  leading up to the 
disputed payment, with 15 of those payments being for more  than £1,000. It didnt think  
Mrs Rs transaction on that day was unusual or out of character. It also didnt consider it to 
be of high value.  
It suggested that it does  not automatically  follow that Mrs R went into branch to make the 
payment because she had concerns over the value of the transfer or because of the risks of 
making an international transfer. It said she could have been asking advice on how to make  
an online  international payment and that she intended  to make the payment herself using the 
online service once  she knew  how to do it. It suggested Mrs R would have known that a 
payment could not be stopped once  it has been  made. It pointed  out that the bank is unable 
to verify if the contract or the holiday villa was genuine. 
Mrs R was disappointed  with the banks response. She said I can hand  on heart tell you 
I visited the branch  on that day for their advice and reassurance about the payment which  
I got and the lady went  ahead on my behalf  and paid.
As both sides have had the opportunity to provide further comments and evidence,  I will now 
reach my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
customers account. That was the case in July 2017 when this payment was made  and 
remains so now. 
Its not in dispute  that Mrs R authorised  the disputed payment  to be made. At the time the 
payment was made, she agreed to it, but she did not know shed been tricked  by scammers 
into instructing her branch to transfer the money.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN95949423Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps  may include following  the Banking  Protocol 
where appropriate.
So Ive thought about whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mrs R when it processed the payment for £1835.54. Having done so, I think the bank 
should have done more  to question Mrs Rs payment request before it was processed.
The bank agrees Mrs R went  into branch  on that day but suggested she may have been 
finding out how to make the payment with the intention  of making it online herself  at a later 
opportunity. Due to the passage of time, the bank no longer has the technical records to 
show exactly how and where the payment was made from. But I am not persuaded by what 
the bank has recently  said.  When the bank issued its final response on the matter,  it 
accepted the payment had been  made  in branch.  Mrs R has maintained  consistently  that the 
payment was made in branch by the branch  colleague using  an iPad. On balance, it seems  
more likely than not that is how the payment was made.
It's clear Mrs R knew how to make a payment  online from the evidence  the bank has 
presented, so I am persuaded by what she has said about going into branch to discuss  this 
payment specifically, otherwise she could have just made the payment from home, as she 
has done on many other occasions. 
Bank of Scotland has pointed out the payment Mrs R wanted to make  wasnt  for a large  
amount and that Mrs R makes other  payments for similar amounts. I accept that in the 
context of the way Mrs Rs account ran, the value of this payment wouldnt have necessarily 
stood out. But the value  of a transaction isnt the only sign that might indicate to a bank that 
its customer could be at risk of fraud.
What is unusual depends on the overall  circumstances.  Mrs R considered this payment to be 
unusual for her. She went into the branch specifically  to make it, and I think  that interaction  
with the bank is an important factor in this case.
Bank of Scotland has said it cant comment on the authenticity  of adverts  offering  items or 
services for sale online. It has highlighted  that it provides lots of information  on its website 
about scams and how to avoid them. But Mrs R had physically  presented  herself in the 
branch as the dialogue with the branch staff, who are an invaluable line of defence  when 
spotting fraud, was important to her.
Even though  the amount  of the payment  wasnt significantly more than Mrs R has been  
known to spend on other occasions, it was the first international payment Mrs R wanted to 
Ref: DRN95949424make and it was going to a new payee.  So I dont think it was fair and reasonable for the 
bank to have processed  this payment  without  question, especially as I am persuaded Mrs R 
went into the branch  to seek  further  assistance.  I think it should have made at least some 
basic enquiries before putting the payment request through. I think  Bank of Scotland ought  
reasonably to have  been  aware, and was aware, of this type of scam and its prevalence.  
The Banking Protocol  encourages  staff to ask probing questions to get into the detail behind 
a payment and to warn of the risk of fraud and scams. In the circumstances, it would have 
been fair for the bank  to ask a basic level of questioning designed to disturb or unearth a 
potential fraud. It should have established that Mrs R was not at risk of financial harm. 
I am persuaded that the bank was aware  of what Mrs R wanted to make the payment for. 
Her recollections of the conversation suggest  the banks employee reassured  her that she 
would not lose her money as long as she hadnt  acted negligently. So I think  the bank knew  
that the payment was for a holiday villa Mrs R had found online,  especially as Mrs R says 
she had printed off the paperwork and taken it into branch with her. The branch  colleague  
should have helped Mrs R to reflect on whether it was legitimate or not. I accept the bank 
doesnt have the means  to verify if the contract  or the villa was genuine, but it has more 
experience of what scams of this nature look and feel like than Mrs R does. 
I think it could have  told Mrs R about  online scams  and the prevalence  of bogus  holiday villa 
websites. Mrs R says she showed  the staff member the contract and the staff member  put 
the details in the iPad for her. The fake rental contract said the address of the receiving bank 
was Klosterstrasse 62, Berlin. This information was prominent and next to the account 
details Mrs R wanted to pay. I think the branch colleague should have prompted Mrs R to 
think about whether  that was right, and to reflect on why she was dealing  with someone in 
Spain that wanted them  to pay an account  held in Germany. This was something that a more  
experienced eye should think  was potentially not quite right.
Given Mrs R has sadly fallen victim to a different scam in the past, along with what  shes 
said about making this payment in branch for reassurance, I think  providing  further  
information about the hallmarks of this type of scam  would have been enough to cause her 
sufficient concern. I am persuaded Mrs R would not then have gone on to make  the payment 
to the scammer.  
Ive also thought about whether Mrs R was herself  blameworthy  in some way. In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Mrs Rs actions were  unreasonable. She has been the victim of 
a clever fraudster. Her explanations around why she went into the branch that day are 
plausible and persuasive. She did not have the knowledge or experience to know whether 
she was at the risk of harm when making this payment and I think  the branch should have 
done more than it did to help her. I am persuaded that Mrs Rs actions are reasonable and 
indicative of someone  that was seeking peace  of mind specifically from the branch 
experience. 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. In the circumstances 
I am satisfied Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably reimburse  Mrs R for the loss 
she suffered without any reduction, together with interest to compensate her for being  
deprived of the money she lost. 
From what  Mrs R has said, she had earmarked this money for a holiday villa. But its not 
clear exactly  when  she would have found  another villa or whether she would have  used the 
Ref: DRN95949425money for something else in the interim. Where it is not clear  what  a consumer would have 
done, I think its fair to award 8% simple  interest  from the date the payment was made to the 
date of settlement  to reflect  the range of decisions about spending  and borrowing a 
consumer may have made over a period of time and the range of missed opportunities they 
might have had. I see no reason to depart from that in these particular circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
In full and final settlement  of this complaint, it should  now:
Pay Mrs R £1835.54
Pay simple interest  at 8% a year from the date the payment was made  to the date of 
settlement. If Bank of Scotland considers that it is required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mrs R how much  it has 
taken off. It should also give Mrs R a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9594942