K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains of numerous failings by his mortgagee The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc in 
connection with a new mortgage  and a transfer  of the security  from his sole name  into the 
joint names of himself and his wife.
To resolve  his complaint  he wants RBS to pay £2,038 for the fees of his solicitor, the 
interest incurred on his existing mortgage  and his credit card over the period of delay, and 
£350 in compensation.
background
Mr O had a mortgage  with RBS in his sole name.  The term of the mortgage  was due to end 
in November 2018 and he agreed with RBS to take a new mortgage in the joint names of 
himself and his wife with additional borrowing to cover consolidation of a credit card debt, 
solicitors fees of £300 for the transfer  of the property into joint names (TOT  transfer of 
title), and spending  money for a trip abroad.
He says the application caused considerable stress and time spent on the phone dealing  
with various RBS departments. He received threatening emails and texts from RBS. Owing  
to gross negligence by RBS he has received a solicitors bill for over £2,000 and has had to 
pay £236 on the credit card to prevent a default  notice.
Mr O says he received a mortgage offer on 3 December  2018 and wrote to RBS that day 
requesting that the mortgage  be completed on 7 December. On 5 December  RBS wrote to 
Mr Os solicitors (D) instructing them to also act for RBS in connection with the TOT, i.e. the 
transfer of the property  from Mr Os sole name into the joint names of himself  and his wife. 
This would involve discharge of the existing  legal charge and registration of a new legal 
charge signed  by Mr and Mrs O.
The TOT and the new mortgage were  completed  on 23 January 2019.  Mr O considers 
that they should have  been completed sooner than this, and would have been but for 
RBS gross negligence.
On Mr Os complaint to RBS it acknowledged (a) that it hadnt responded to D in a timely 
manner on two occasions as expected after the offer was issued and (b) it hadnt forwarded  
his complaint to the complaints department  on 13 December 2018. It apologised for this and 
credited Mr Os account with £150  compensation.
Mr O wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. RBS referred in its 
submission to the two occasions. It said that on 24 December D had said RBS was asking 
them to confirm in the certificate of title that they had completed searches etc. but this was 
contrary to RBS instructions. So the certificate  would have to be qualified. However RBS 
had replied insisting  on an unqualified certificate  of title.
On 8 January  D had phoned RBS to discuss the matter. The staff member who took the call
couldn't answer the query  and promised that a colleague would call back. But there  was no
evidence of this having been  done. RBS said there had been  a service failure as it didnt
return Ds call on 8 January 2019 as promised.  Likewise D also didnt  return  a call which
RBS made  on 9 January 2019  but RBS didn't follow up. This caused a delay  of 12 days
before contact was established.
Ref: DRN99392142Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Os complaint be upheld. He felt RBS had completed 
the application as quickly as possible and had admitted the occasions  where  it had caused  
delays, and paid appropriate compensation. 
The investigator said RBS had accepted that it could have responded to D in a timelier 
manner on two occasions and that Mr Os complaint should  have been sent to the 
complaints department on 13 December 2018. At this point, RBS was still waiting for 
paperwork from D to complete the application. It was difficult  to say whether this delay had 
caused a direct financial loss because it was unknown  whether it would have  speeded up 
the application process. Therefore the investigator  thought the £150 compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In relation to the interest on Mr Os credit  card and payment of his existing mortgage, the 
investigator didnt  think  it fair to ask RBS to compensate for the costs Mr O had incurred. 
These were  agreements which Mr O had with RBS which he was aware  he needed to 
adhere to. Although he had applied for the new mortgage and had a timeframe of a month 
for it to be sorted, there was never a guarantee that this could have been achieved.
The investigator believed  that RBS had accepted  responsibility for the mistakes it had made 
and that the compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Mr O didnt agree so the complaints been passed to me for review.
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive gone through Mr Os letter of complaint to identify the allegations against  RBS. Ill 
number these for ease  of reference.
1.D needed  a written consent from RBS to deal with a legal restriction  on the title to the 
property. On 5 December D asked Mr O to request this from Mr Os existing RBS 
contact. I assume Mr O did that, and RBS replied:
Apologies but I don't actually understand what the solicitors are asking for there - it 
seems to be related  to the legal side of things whereas I just advise on the new 
mortgage. I would recommend  the solicitors calling  in directly to discuss
Mr O complains:
Again, this is another time RBS has requested my solicitor  call your bank, being the 
same process three different departments and no departments  taking ownership.
2.On 7 December D saw that RBS had uploaded details relating  to a remortgage  but 
assumed that because  RBS hadn't clarified  the change of requirements, that the 
registration of Mrs O at the Land Registry was still to be processed.
Ref: DRN993921433.On 11 December  RBS legal team queried the need for consent  and advised that D 
were to complete the remortgage process on Mr Os behalf then complete the 
registration. The RBS legal department were insistent that on completion of the new 
mortgage the existing mortgage  would be redeemed and negate the need  for a letter of 
consent. The RBS legal team were giving Mr Os solicitor the wrong  instructions. Mr O 
says this is the one of the main reasons why D has charged over £2,038:
now my solicitor is dealing with the whole remortgage process from the legal  
documents to transferring the funds etc and at my great expense my solicitor requires 
a copy of the mortgage deed and a redeem  figure  urgently.  I have now paid RBS £950 
for arranging  and processing  the mortgage  but now my solicitor has been told they need 
to deal with. I have paid a further £150 for administration for the changing the deeds, but 
again my solicitor is dealing with.
4.D tried to submit the certificate of title and draw down the mortgage  but could not satisfy 
the conditions  and requested that RBS contact them  by return  agreeing that this was 
acceptable. A response  was never  forthcoming.
5.On 3, 4 and 7 January  D tried to call someone who wasn't in the mortgage  department 
to discuss the unqualified certificate of title, but was continually  passed from department  
to department, again no department  or employee  taking ownership.
6.On 9 January Mr O emailed RBS:
All the documentation has been completed weeks ago and D have been  trying to send 
the certificate of title without success. RBS requires this to release the funds.
7.On 10 January  Mr O emailed RBS:
Regarding you are not or authorised  or qualified to deal with the legal side of the 
mortgage, this is not a satisfactory answer. I have paid RBS £950  to complete my 
mortgage and a further £150 to complete changing of the title deeds. Therefore  I expect  a 
qualified adviser  to complete the mortgage  process  from conception to completion,  if that 
person doesn't have the expertise  in the legal side of the process then it's the Banks and 
adviser responsibility to allocate a representative to complete the deed changing process 
works with the mortgage adviser  overseeing the complete programme.
8.On 11 January  Mr O spoke to the complaints department to find that his complaint had been 
noted but not registered therefore the complaint had to be re-instated. In its final response 
dated 7 February 2019 RBS acknowledged the complaint  had been logged  on the date of 
receipt 7 January  2019. It said that on 11 January 2019 it had sent an acknowledgement  of 
the complaint. It had noted an email from Mr O dated 13 December 2018 where he had 
expressed dissatisfaction.  RBS acknowledged Mr Os complaint should  have  been  raised  
with it at this date. It had backdated his complaint accordingly and apologised for this.
9.On 31 January  Mr O emailed RBS:
Can you please  chase this up as everything  is on hold until this is rectified.
Ref: DRN99392144Following the same  numbering my views  are:
1.What caused the problem here was that D asked Mr O to refer its request to his RBS 
contact. That contact,  inevitably, was a mortgage adviser  who could not be expected to 
understand the request.  D should  have made that request  to the RBS department which  
had instructed D, namely mortgage  operations, quoting the reference in the letter of 
instruction dated 5 December 2018.
2.I cant see what change of requirements is referred to here. It was still necessary to 
register the TOT.
3.I dont agree that the RBS legal team was giving D the wrong  instructions. It seems  to 
me that upon  discharge of the legal charge in the sole name of Mr O, the restriction 
protecting that charge  would fall away and be replaced by a restriction protecting the 
new joint charge. In these  circumstances the recommendation  that D ought to deal with 
the discharge and new mortgage was entirely sensible. 
4.In its final response dated 7 February 2019 RBS acknowledged we did not respond to 
your solicitor in a timely manner on two occasions as expected.  I assume this was one 
of those occasions.
5.D should have made that call to the RBS department which had instructed it, namely  
mortgage operations, quoting  the reference in the letter  of instruction dated  5 December.
6.This is the instance referred  to above where  RBS was asking D to confirm in the 
certificate of title that they had completed  searches  etc. but this was contrary to RBS 
instructions. So the certificate would have to be qualified. However RBS had replied 
insisting on an unqualified certificate of title. 
In its letter  of instruction  to D dated 5 December  2018  RBS had said:
We DO NOT require you to renew local authority or other searches.
It followed from this that Ds certificate of title would properly be qualified to record that 
updated searches  had not been made.  It wasnt reasonable for RBS to nevertheless  
insist upon receiving an unqualified certificate.
7.I dont agree. The fees of £950  and £150  werent conveyancing fees. And the mortgage  
illustration said expressly  that the £150  transfer of equity fee didnt  include solicitors  
fees, so RBS made it clear at the start that Mr O would be responsible  for legal costs.
8.RBS has apologised for this and it is included in its payment  of £150 compensation 
which I deal with below.
9.The complaint indicates  that RBS response  to this was that an eDS1 had been 
transmitted to the land registry. This is the application to remove  the registration of the 
earlier legal  charge. Its post-completion work and its not clear from the complaint why 
this should cause everything  to be on hold. And in any case the complaint says that D 
had completed on 22 January,  before  the email was sent.
Ref: DRN99392145In his response to the investigators  view Mr O said RBS had taken full responsibility for the 
delay from 5 December  to 24 January. But I dont agree. What RBS took responsibility for 
was a period of delay from 8 January to 22 January, which it accepted was partially its fault 
as D had also failed  to return RBS call on 9 January. 
In my view Mr Os expectation  that the TOT and new mortgage  could be completed in five 
days (3 to 7 December 2018) was always unrealistic.  That simply wasnt  enough time for the 
necessary work to be done.
However I dont agree  that RBS failings  started  only on 8 January or that they were  limited 
to two instances of failing to respond to D. Much more significant than this, and the actual 
cause of the problems between RBS and D, was that RBS insisted upon receiving an 
unqualified certificate of title despite  having instructed D not to make updated searches.
I dont agree that RBS was grossly negligent.  But I do consider that RBS bears  
responsibility for:
failing  to log Mr Os complaint on 13 December; 
the instances of failing to respond  to D;
unreasonably  requiring an unqualified certificate  of title.
Im not persuaded that but for these matters, Ds fees would have been £300 instead  of 
£1,665 plus disbursements. Its not clear  where  the figure of £300 comes  from, and the 
latter figure doesnt seem to me excessive for transferring a property from a sole name  to 
joint names, redeeming  a sole mortgage and completing a joint mortgage. Ive examined  
Ds time recording spreadsheet but its not obvious from this that additional work was 
required owing to failings  by RBS.
Nor do I consider  it appropriate to penalise RBS for the interest  paid by Mr O on his sole 
mortgage and credit card, for the reasons given by the investigator.
However I do agree with Mr O that an appropriate  sum by way of compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to him would be £350,  of which RBS has paid £150.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  conclusions I confirm them here.
Ref: DRN99392146my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay 
Mr O £200 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9939214