K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2008. Miss H says Frank G Gates  Ltd (Gates)  mis-sold the PPI.
background
Miss H took out hire purchase agreement in 2008. The amount  of credit was £11,194  to be 
repaid over 36 months.  At the same time Miss H was sold the PPI to protect her monthly 
repayments. The PPI could have paid a monthly benefit equivalent to the monthly loan 
repayment for remaining term of the agreement if Miss H could not work  due to an accident  
or ill-health. The policy  cost £12.17 per month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Gates has shown  us a copy  of the Hire Purchase  Agreement. I can see there is a separate 
section on the agreement for PPI. The monthly  cost of the policy  (£12.17)  is set out here 
along with the monthly  loan instalment both with and without the PPI. I can see that Miss H 
has signed within this section, separately to the loan agreement,  to buy the policy.  From  this 
I think its most likely  that Miss H was made aware she didnt have  to take out PPI to obtain 
the credit  and she chose  to buy it. Although  I can understand if she cant recall  this after so 
many years.
Gates recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check it was right for her, and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances I think it was.
Miss H was working and was eligible for the cover, so she could  have made a claim if she 
had needed to.
Miss H was self-employed  but she was not sold cover for unemployment which  may have  
been difficult for her to claim  for. Miss H was sold cover for being unable  to work due to an 
accident or sickness. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions  and her self-employed  
status would  not have  made it difficult to make  a claim under  this cover.  
The policy did contain some exclusions and limitations, but it doesnt look like Miss H was 
affected by any of these.  For example she didnt have any existing medical conditions which 
may not have been covered.
Miss H was taking on a new financial commitment, and as a self-employed  person would not 
have received any sick pay from an employer. So I think  Miss H had a need for the cover the 
policy gave her. 
Ref: DRN99383632Miss H has told us she had some savings and insurance, but shes not given us details of 
the insurance cover and the PPI policy would  mean  she didnt have to use those  savings 
towards paying the monthly repayments  if she became unable  to work.
Ive not seen any evidence that the premiums  were unaffordable.
So I think the policy recommended by Gates was likely right for her.
Its possible the information Gates gave  Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not 
Miss H would have changed  her mind about  buying  the policy if shed been given better or 
clearer information. For the same reasons as I think the policy  was right for her, I dont think  
any clearer information would have put her off buying the policy.  
In summary,  I think Gates likely made it clear the policy was optional and Miss H chose to 
take it out. I think the policy  was right for her, given her circumstances at the time. And I 
dont think any clearer information  about the policy would have caused Miss H to act 
differently and decline the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against           
Frank G Gates Ltd
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9938363