K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained about the settlement  figure offered by Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited (Advantage) after his car was written off in an accident. He also complained about 
ownership of the car being transferred before he had accepted the offer.  Mr R also 
complained about a phone conversation  with a member of staff at Advantage. 
background
Mr R had a car accident in August  2018 and his car was assessed by Advantage as a write-
off (total loss). Advantage said the pre-accident  market value of Mr Rs car was £7,330  and 
offered him this amount,  less the excess,  to settle  his claim. Mr R disagreed  with the 
valuation. He felt £8,000  was the right amount,  as this was the amount he had paid for the 
car around  five months prior to the accident. Advantage appointed an engineer  to review the 
car valuation  and Mr R complained that the engineer  was rude to him when they spoke by 
phone. Mr R raised a complaint with Advantage. 
Mr R received a letter  from the DVLA around two weeks after the accident  informing  him that 
the car had been re-registered,  as ownership was transferred  to Advantages salvage agent. 
Mr R was unhappy, as he was considering keeping the car if the claim wasnt settled to his 
satisfaction. Mr R raised a second complaint  with Advantage.  The car was disposed of at 
auction by the salvage  agent in August 2018.  
Advantage responded to the first complaint in September 2018. It upheld the complaint in 
part. It agreed the engineer was inappropriate and unprofessional  during  the phone  call and 
offered compensation of £50. In relation to the car valuation, it said it used three different 
valuation guides  and offered the highest  value provided by these to settle the claim. It also 
said £460 was deducted as the cars mileage was higher than average.  Advantage said it 
had correctly valued the car and wouldnt increase its offer. 
On the second  complaint about  his car being  re-registered, Advantage said it was aware  Mr 
R hadnt accepted or declined the suggested claim settlement when this happened.  It said 
the re-registration happened because of human error and this is not the correct process, 
because Mr R had made a complaint about  the valuation of the car. It apologised for any 
distress or inconvenience caused and offered £200  compensation. 
Mr R was unhappy with the response from Advantage and referred this matter to our service. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt  think Advantages valuation  was 
reasonable. He said this service has access to four vehicle valuation  guides and decided the 
correct valuation in this particular case was an average of the four guides. So he said 
Advantage should increase its settlement offer based on a pre-accident value of £7750.  
Our investigator listened to the call between Mr R and the engineer.  And he noted  
Advantage agreed the call couldve gone  better and had offered £50 compensation. He said, 
based on the content of the call and what weve awarded in similar  cases previously, the 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Our investigator also said 
Advantage agreed that having the car re-registered was an error, but he felt the £200 
compensation offered by Advantage for this was fair. 
Mr R doesnt agree with our investigators findings. He still thinks  the pre-accident value was 
higher than £7,750 and he doesnt  think he should  be left out of pocket.  He also said the 
Ref: DRN92680142engineer was rude to him and tried to trick him into accepting a settlement offer. He said he 
was contending with the injuries from the accident  during  the course of the claim and this 
made the situation more stressful. He also said that Advantage re-registering the car was a 
gross error. 
Advantage also didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It said it has concerns about 
the fourth  valuation guide weve used. So this complaint has come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part. 
Mr Rs car was assessed as a total loss. His policy says: If your car is a total lossthe  most  
your insurer  will pay is the market value  of your car at the time of loss or damage.  And the 
policy also says trade  valuation guides may be used to assess  the market value. 
It is standard  practice for the insurance  industry to use trade valuation guides to work out the 
pre-accident market value  of a car. The valuations the guides  provide are based on the 
advertised and likely sales prices  of similar cars of similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time the accident  occurred. So Im satisfied that its fair in this case to use these guides  to 
establish market  value. 
I can see that Advantage used three  guides  to calculate the value of the car. And it said it 
would only deviate  from these guides if the vehicle is especially  rare or does not display on 
these guides.  Mr Rs car does display on these  guides and Advantage took the highest of 
the three valuations, £7,330 and offered this as a settlement amount to Mr R. 
Im satisfied that Advantage acted in line with the terms  of the policy when it used the motor  
trade guides and when  it told Mr R that it would pay the market value of the car at the time of 
the loss, rather than the amount he had paid for the car five months prior to the accident. 
However, I have reviewed the four car valuation guides used by this service,  which  include 
the three used by Advantage.  And Ive taken an average of these to calculate the market 
value. Having done so, I agree with the valuation of £7,750 arrived at by our investigator.  
The excess, which is the part of the claim that Mr R must pay, needs  to be deducted  from 
this amount. 
The reason  I think  its fair and reasonable to take into account all four guides is that I think 
an average of the four guides  gives the best indication of the likely pre-accident  value of Mr 
Rs car, namely what it would have  cost him to replace it with one of a similar make, model  
and mileage. I appreciate Advantage only had access to three guides,  but I have to decide 
whats fair and reasonable taking into account all the evidence  I have.  So I cant  ignore  a 
guide, just because Advantage didnt use it. 
Mr R also complained that Advantage (or its salvage  agent) re-registered his car before he 
had agreed to the settlement. And I agree it shouldnt have done  this. Advantage also 
agrees that it didnt  follow the correct process on this occasion and offered Mr R £200 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.  
I realise this error meant Mr R didnt have the opportunity to have his car returned to him. 
But, having  listened to the phone call between Mr R and the Advantage engineer, I can see 
Ref: DRN92680143that having the car returned to him was not Mr Rs preferred option. So Mr R hasnt been 
deprived of a course of action that he had hoped to take.
Im also satisfied that Mr R most  likely  hasnt been placed at a disadvantage financially as a 
result of the ownership  of his car being transferred. The car had been assessed as being  
beyond economical  repair and the cost of repairing could well have exceeded  the pre-
accident value  of the vehicle. And in order  to have the car returned to him, Mr R wouldve 
needed to accept the settlement offer made by Advantage, less the excess  amount and less 
the salvage value of the car. So Im satisfied that Mr R would most likely not have been in a 
better financial position if he had been  able to keep the car.
Having said that, Advantage did make an error and did not act in line with its own processes. 
And Im satisfied that the £200 offered to Mr R adequately compensates  him for the distress 
and inconvenience  this error  caused him. 
Mr R complained about the conduct  of an Advantage  engineer when he spoke to him by 
phone. He told this service  that the engineer  was unruly. 
Ive listened to the relevant phone  call and I dont agree that the engineer  behaved in an 
unprofessional way. Mr R said that he feels the engineer being rude is a minor point and that 
he is more concerned that the engineers actions delayed his claim. But I dont agree that 
this is the case.  From  what I heard, the engineer confirmed he agreed with the first valuation  
offered by Advantage and explained the rationale behind his decision not to increase the 
valuation. Its the case that Mr R disagrees with the engineer, but this does not mean  that 
the engineer delayed  his claim in any way or was rude. 
I can see that Advantage have already offered Mr R £50 compensation for the phone  call 
and Im not going  to suggest  any more,  as I dont think the engineers  conduct  was 
inappropriate.
 
Mr R was injured  in the accident that led to his claim and said it was very difficult  having to 
deal with the errors made by Advantage  while  he was unwell. While I appreciate  that this 
must have  been  a very difficult time for Mr R, I am satisfied that the total amount of 
compensation offered by Advantage is enough. 
Ref: DRN92680144my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. 
I can see that Advantage Insurance Company Limited have already paid Mr R the sum of 
£6,985. I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R the balance of £420, 
which is the difference between what has already been  paid and £7,750 less the excess  
amount of £345.  
I also require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R the £250 it had offered as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused, if this has not already been paid.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9268014