K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about the way in which Aviva Insurance Limited handled  his claim 
made under a home  emergency policy for landlords.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
An engineer appointed  by Aviva inspected  the boiler at a property owned  by Mr N and let 
out to a tenant. Mr N has said that this engineer was aggressive  and rude to his tenant, 
resulting in the tenant asking Mr N to speak  over the phone  to the engineer.
Aviva told Mr N that his boiler  would  need  to be replaced under the terms of the home 
emergency policy. It said that it would pay to supply  the new boiler, but Mr N would need to 
cover the cost of its installation. The quote provided to Mr N by Avivas contractor for the 
installation was £1,700. Mr N has stated that he considered this to be very high. However,  
taking into account  that his tenant has young children, and to ensure the property would 
have heating and hot water, Mr N agreed  to the installation.
Mr N has said that Avivas  surveyor told him the installation would take two days, and that 
flooring would need to be lifted  to fit new pipes. However, in the event, it only took around  six 
hours of one day, and flooring was not lifted.  Subsequently Mr N has paid money to a 
different contractor to remedy problems  with the new boiler. Aviva offered Mr N £50 for 
inconvenience it stated  it had caused  during the installation  of the boiler.
Mr N brought a complaint to this service  because he considered  the installation quote  had 
been overinflated,  and he requested that he pay only a proportion  of the £1,700 charged.  He 
was also unhappy  with the behaviour of the engineer who initially visited the property. Mr N 
commented that Aviva had continued to chase  him for payment of the installation costs,  and 
hadnt handled his complaint appropriately.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He highlighted that the installation  quote did 
not state how long the work  would  take to be done.  Instead, Avivas comment  about the 
installation taking two days was a maximum expected timeframe. Aviva had confirmed that 
the work  detailed on the quote had been carried out, and for this reason the investigator 
considered it was reasonable that the full cost of the quote  was being charged.
The investigator noted that Mr N was not obliged to have the installation carried  out by 
Avivas contractor, and that if he had raised concerns about the quote, he would have been 
offered a cash settlement. However,  taking into account Mr Ns urgency to ensure  the 
property had a functioning boiler,  the investigator  concluded that if given this option,  Mr N 
was unlikely to have chosen to accept a cash settlement.
In terms of the service  received, the investigators view was that Avivas offer of £50 
represented fair compensation.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators findings. He has questioned whether Aviva should  
have given him a full breakdown on the works  that were carried out. Mr N has also stated 
that at no time was it mentioned that he could use an alternative contractor to carry out the 
Ref: DRN92035422works. Instead, he understood that for the insurance policy  to cover the cost of the new 
boiler, he would have to have it installed by Avivas contractor. Had Mr N known he had this 
option, he says he would  have got another quote.
Mr N has confirmed that he needed the installation  done urgently,  in light of the tenants he 
had in the property who needed hot water and heating. His dissatisfaction  in large  part 
relates to the fact he was told it would take two days to install the boiler,  but it actually took 
less than a day. As a consequence, he considers the quote was inflated  by over 100%. Mr N 
has also stated that he was quoted new pipes would need  to be laid, and that if this was not 
required, this must  have  reduced the cost of installation.
Mr N has commented that Aviva did not respond to his e-mails, and that he was continually  
chased for payment of the outstanding  installation  sum. He considers the £50 compensation 
amount fails to reflect the time he has spent  on this matter, and the stress he has been  
caused. Mr N has highlighted that the new boiler failed on its first day, and although Aviva 
repaired it on that occasion, it has since broken down  again, with Mr N paying for repair on 
this second occasion. He has also reiterated  his concerns about the behaviour of the first 
engineer who visited the property.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has confirmed that his main complaint is that he considers he was given misleading 
information by Avivas contractor regarding the work required and time it would take to install 
the boiler, and that this affected  his decision regarding  getting the installation done.
Mr N has landlord home  emergency  cover  provided by Aviva. His policy  says that if his boiler 
is deemed beyond  economic  repair  or parts are obsolete (as I understand was the case  
here), where the boiler is over seven years  old, it will be replaced by Aviva.  However, the 
policyholder will need to pay the installation  charge.  The policy wording states  that Aviva  will 
provide for you, a quote  for this work. 
The policy wording does  not state  that Mr N has to use one of Avivas  contractors,  nor does 
it say that Mr N is bound by the quote  that Aviva will provide.
Mr N was also sent a letter by Aviva at this time.  This stated that he was entitled  to a 
replacement boiler  fitted  by our approved installer. It continued:  You  will need to pay the 
cost of removing  your existing boiler  and the cost of installing the replacement boiler. All 
works will be completed by our approved installer. 
Towards the end of the letter, it stated:  We have already  arranged  for our approved installer 
to arrange a free, no obligation survey  and quote  for the fitting of the replacement boiler.  It 
then stated: If you choose  not to proceed  with our offer of the replacement boiler and 
installation by our approved installer,  no alternative option is available (including supplying  
the boiler directly  to you for private  installation or any cash  alternatives).
Mr N says that at no time was it mentioned  he could  use an alternative contractor to install  
the boiler. His understanding was that for the insurance policy to cover the cost of the new 
boiler, he would have to have it installed by Avivas contractor. Had Mr N known he had this 
option, he says he would  have got another quote.
Ref: DRN92035423Based on the policy wording, my view is that Mr N was not obliged  to use an Aviva  
contractor to carry out the work  in order to benefit  from the policy cover of a replacement 
boiler. However, it seems  to me that the letter Mr N received about the new boiler,  detailed  
above, did not make this clear. It did confirm that Mr N was not obliged to accept the quote  
being provided to him by Avivas contractor.  But at the same  time, it stated that if Mr N did 
not proceed with the offer of the boiler  being  installed by Avivas contractor, no alternative 
option was available.
In the course  of investigating this complaint, Aviva  has stated that it will only offer customers 
a cash settlement for the boiler if they inform  Aviva that they are unhappy with the quote 
provided by its installer. I appreciate that Avivas letter told Mr N that this was a no 
obligation quote. However, taking  into account  Mr Ns testimony that he was not told that he 
could use another  contractor to install the boiler, overall my current  view is that the 
information given  to him at this time did not make  it sufficiently clear that he could in fact 
obtain his own quote for this work, and receive a cash settlement. Instead, it seems to me 
that Mr N was given  the impression  that to benefit  from the policy cover in relation to a 
replacement boiler,  he would need to agree  to Avivas contractor carrying  out this work.
That being  the case, I need to consider what Mr N is likely to have done had he been told 
that he could use his own contractor to install the boiler. In these circumstances, I 
understand that Aviva would have paid Mr N a cash settlement in respect  of the cost of the 
new boiler. However, this would have been  the cost to Aviva of supplying the new boiler  
and this may have  been a lower sum than Mr N would have been charged if he had tried to 
purchase the boiler himself. This reflects  the fact that insurers are often able to obtain 
replacement goods  at a lower price  than is available to most consumers, due to 
arrangements they have  with suppliers as bulk purchasers of certain  goods.
Taking this into account, in my view its not clear  that if Mr N had accepted a cash  settlement 
equal to Avivas cost for purchasing a new boiler,  he would have been able to buy the new 
boiler and pay an independent contractors  installation  costs for a total sum that was less 
than he paid Aviva for the installation by its contractor. Having obtained a separate 
installation quote,  and been told what Avivas  cash settlement figure  was, my view is that 
there is a significant  possibility  that Mr N may not have been  financially better  off using this 
route to get his new boiler installed.
In addition, Mr N has confirmed that he needed to get the boiler  installed urgently,  because  
in his words he had a vulnerable family living in the house that needed hot water and 
heating. In these  circumstances,  it seems to me that the option of obtaining  alternative  
quotes for the installation would have been  less appealing to Mr N, as in my view it is likely 
to have delayed  the new boiler  being fitted.  Taking  the above into account, overall my view is 
that even if Mr N had been  given clearer information about the option for him to obtain an 
independent quote for the installation and be paid a cash  sum for the new boiler, he is more  
likely than not to have chosen  to use Avivas contractor to install  the boiler.
In terms of the cost charged by Avivas  installer,  Mr N has suggested  that this was 
significantly overinflated.  Mr N has not provided a comparison quote in support of his 
position. However, his key concerns  relate to how long it took to carry out the installation, 
and what work was actually required.
Mr N says that he was told the work would take two days. Aviva states that any time scale  
given was only an estimate of how long it could  take. Even if the work was completed  
Ref: DRN92035424quicker, Aviva states that the cost would have been  the same. I note that the written  quote 
provided did not mention any timescale for the installation. It confirms that the quote covers  
all materials  and pipework, the flue, and removing the old system and any other  waste. Aviva  
states that new pipework  was installed  to run up through the ceiling.
As already stated,  Mr N did not obtain  a comparison quote. However, even if he did, and this 
were to be less than the cost of Avivas contractor,  in my view this wouldnt necessarily show 
that the higher quote was overinflated. Aviva  has stated that all the work quoted to Mr N was 
completed by its contractor. Taking this into account, on balance I consider the fact that the 
work was completed  in less time than was initially estimated to Mr N does  not mean that the 
quote was unfairly  high.  Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr N has demonstrated that Avivas  
contractors quote  was overinflated. For that reason, I do not intend to require Aviva to 
reduce the cost of the installation that it has charged Mr N from the sum originally quoted  to 
him.
I do however consider  that Avivas  handling  of this claim has caused Mr N unnecessary  
difficulties. As explained above, although I consider Mr N would have  chosen  to use Avivas 
contractor to install the boiler even if given clearer information that he had a choice to accept  
a cash settlement and arrange this himself, in my view the lack of explanation to Mr N about 
his options has caused him some upset. In addition, Mr N has explained the difficulties he 
was caused due to the manner in which the first engineer who attended the property  spoke 
to his tenant.
Mr N has already been offered £50 by Aviva  for inconvenience caused to him. My view is 
that Aviva  should pay Mr N an additional £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by its handling of his claim. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Aviva confirmed that it had no further comments to make.
Mr N explained that there  were a few points in my provisional decision that he disagreed  
with. He has said that he understands the cash settlement for the boiler would have been a 
trade price  rather than a retail price. Mr N says that this would  have been  acceptable,  and 
that he would have contacted a trusted  supplier who would have been able to obtain  the 
boiler for a similar trade price, and then just charged  for labour. Although  Mr N agrees that 
he wanted to get the boiler  replaced  quickly due to his tenants, he says he did have plenty of 
time to sort this out, and consequently he would have accepted the cash  settlement if offered 
this by Aviva.
In terms of the estimate provided by Aviva that quoted  for pipework, Mr N has said that the 
estimator explained how all the flooring  might  need  to be lifted on the first floor,  and the 
quote was to run the pipes from the kitchen at the back of the house  down  into the garage at 
the front. Mr N has said that he was told that until the installation works  started, it wouldnt be 
known if the pipes under the floor were of the correct size, and so it would need to be 
included in the quotation. Mr N says that when work started, it was discovered  that the pipes 
were of the correct size, and he has questioned therefore  why he should  have to pay for this 
work.
Mr N says that the boiler has failed three  times since installation. He says that Aviva has 
attended and repaired part of the system, but he has had to use a different contractor to fix 
other issues preventing  the system from working,  costing him significant sums of money. Mr 
Ref: DRN92035425N has forwarded copies  of invoices relating to further costs that he has incurred. Taking 
these additional  problems into account,  he has questioned whether Avivas installation was 
completed properly.  Mr N has suggested the installation was rushed, which  is why Aviva had 
to return the next day, and he also has concerns that the installed boiler was dangerous.
Mr Ns view is that the £150 compensation payment I proposed  does not cover the time and 
resource he has spent  on this matter, or the inconvenience he has experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Mr N has said about  using a trusted supplier to obtain the boiler  at 
trade price  if hed been offered a cash settlement by Aviva.  However, the price at which 
insurers can obtain replacement goods reflects their position as bulk purchasers. Its not 
clear to me that, even using a trusted  supplier, Mr N would have been able to purchase  the 
replacement boiler  at the equivalent of the cash sum Aviva would have paid him as 
settlement for the claim.
Further to this, as Mr N accepts, he wanted to get the boiler  replaced  quickly, due to the 
tenants that he had in place in the property.  Mr N has explained in his earlier submissions 
that he needed this done urgently  because he had a vulnerable family that needed heating  
and hot water. I cannot be certain  what choice Mr N would  have  made if the option of him 
obtaining an independent installation quote  and receiving a cash settlement for the boiler 
had been made clear  to him. But, on balance,  taking into account the circumstances  at the 
time, my view remains that it is more likely than not that Mr N would have chosen to use 
Avivas contractor to fit the boiler.
In terms of the replacement pipework, Mr N has stated that the quotation provided by Aviva 
included various  works  that the estimator said might  not need to be carried  out. I can see 
that the quotation includes  an amount relating to the gas run. According to Aviva,  all the 
work shown  on the quotation was completed. It has provided a photo that it says shows  the 
new pipework running  up through  the ceiling.  I have carefully thought  about  Mr Ns 
comments regarding the work that was required to fit the new boiler.  But overall, my view 
remains that its not been shown that the quote provided by Aviva  for the works was 
overinflated.
Mr N has highlighted his concerns about the quality of the boiler  installation,  and suggested  
that this was rushed. During  the course  of the consideration of this case,  Mr N has confirmed 
that his key complaint relates  to the information  he was given  when he chose Avivas 
contractor to install the boiler, because in his view this was misleading.  Mr N has detailed 
works that have been carried out to the heating system since  the boiler was fitted. If he 
wishes to dispute  the quality of the installation that Aviva arranged,  in the first instance Mr N 
should address  his concerns directly  to Aviva.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require Aviva Insurance  Limited 
to pay Mr N £150 in compensation, in addition to the £50 it has already offered  him. 
Ref: DRN92035426Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9203542