K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs M have said Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
Whilst the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI was taken in Mr Ms name only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
YBS has provided a copy of the mortgage  application completed  at the time of sale. I can 
see PPI is presented in section N of the form and a cover has been selected. YBS has also 
provided a copy of the separate  PPI application completed at the time  this was 
independent of the mortgage application form and therefore a separate  product. I can see 
the cover  and monthly benefit has been  specified and Mr M has signed the form which  I 
think indicates that he wanted  and agree  to the cover. So having  taken everything in to 
consideration, I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that they chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why they cant  remember this 
now many  years later.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M have said about feeling  pressured to take out the PPI. 
But pressure is a subjective area and what one person may think is pressure another  may 
not. So without  stronger evidence of this I cant fairly  uphold the complaint on this basis.
YBS has said its usual process was that they didnt recommend PPI  and from looking at 
everything Ive seen I think thats  right.  So it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for Mr and    
Mrs M. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide 
if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Mr M has said he would have received some  sick pay from his employer at the time. But the 
PPI policy  couldve covered Mr and Mrs Ms repayments for up to 12 months  per claim if     
Mr M became too ill to work,  or if he became unemployed.  It wouldve paid out in addition to 
any sick pay he had. And it wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy payment he may 
have got if he lost his job. And as there couldve been serious consequences of not keeping 
up repayments on a debt secured against their home, if Mr M couldnt  work or lost his job 
then the PPI meant their monthly  mortgage payments wouldve been met. So I think  the PPI 
policy couldve been helpful to them.
Ref: DRN90716122This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M has said but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. But Yorkshire Building  Society  does have to pay 
back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9071612