K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy Legal & General Insurance Limited declined  his escape of water claim on 
his home  insurance  policy.
All references to L&G in this decision also include their agents.
Background
In July 2017, Mr H lost power  to the ground floor of his property. An emergency electrician 
attended the property. He found that condensation in one of the electrical sockets in the 
kitchen had caused the power to trip. 
The electrician told Mr H the electrical circuit was damaged and required a permanent  repair. 
He also said that in order to prevent a future loss of power, Mr H needed  to remove  the 
source of the moisture that caused  the condensation  in the socket.
Mr H arranged for some quotes for the repair work.  One contractor concluded that Mr Hs 
kitchen wall suffered from rising damp, and said this had contributed  to the loss of power. 
Another contractor  concluded the problem was caused by a leak from a drainpipe,  which led 
to high moisture levels in the walls. 
L&G sent a surveyor  to Mr Hs property to assess the damage. Mr H then submitted the 
repair quotes to L&G and claimed  under his home insurance policy.  
L&G declined the claim. It said there wasnt sufficient evidence  to show an insurable  event  
had occurred. It didnt  think the damage was consistent with that from a leaking pipe and 
said the evidence  showed the damp  issue had been ongoing for some time.
Mr H disagreed. He said one of his contractors had ruled out the damp  issue  and located the 
source of the leaking pipe. He said he felt the surveyor  hadnt inspected the correct  pipe and 
didnt take his contractors comments into account. Mr H complained  to L&G as he felt it had 
unfairly declined  his claim.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response so he referred the complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator reviewed everything  and recommended  that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
He found that regardless  of what caused  the condensation in the electrical  socket, he 
thought it was more likely as a result  of damage over time, as opposed to a one-off event. 
So he didnt think the damage was covered as an insurable event under Mr Hs policy.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He referred  to his evidence  which  showed puddling 
under the leaking  pipe,  and a photograph which showed the rising damp didnt go up to the 
level of the electrical  socket. He said there were storms around the time of the event, which 
must have  damaged the pipe and caused  penetrating  moisture  into the wall and electrical 
socket.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans  decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN98391762My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this outcome will come  as a disappointment to Mr H, and I want to 
reassure him that Ive carefully thought about everything hes said.  
Ive considered whether it was fair for L&G to decline Mr Hs claim.  Ive checked the terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs policy  specifically in regards to escape of water  and accidental 
damage. Both policy terms  have an exclusion that states Your insurer will not pay for: 
damage that happens gradually over a period  of time.
I dont think this term is unusual for policies of this type. And based  on everything Ive seen I 
do think it was fair for L&G to decline the claim under  this exclusion. Ill set out below why I 
think this is the case.
Mr H says the cause of the electric socket damage was due to a leaking pipe. Hes provided 
an invoice from his contractor who identified the leak and fixed  the pipe. Mr H has also 
provided another contractor report,  which states  the leak came from a drainpipe. But L&G 
says the cause of the damage  was more likely due to rising  damp. It has referred to the 
plumbers report and the conclusions of its surveyor.
Having considered everything, I cant say for certain  what caused the condensation  to the 
electrical socket. Mr H has pointed out the rising damp in his wall doesnt  come up to the 
level of the electrical  socket. I know Mr H feels strongly about  this point and Im happy to 
accept this. Im also satisfied that there  was a leaking pipe. But I havent seen anything  
conclusive to prove  which  of these was ultimately responsible for the damage  to the socket. 
And I cant completely  rule out rising  damp  as a factor. I think the different solutions offered 
by Mr Hs contractors to fix the problem support this point. However, to determine  if Mr H has 
a valid claim I now need  to consider whether it was more likely this damage  happened over 
time, or because of a one-off event.
Ive mainly considered  the escape  of water and accidental damage  elements of Mr Hs 
policy. But Mr H has also mentioned there were storm conditions  around the time of the 
claim that he says caused the damage to the pipe. So Ive thought  about  this too.
Having considered all of the evidence,  I think there  are signs  that indicate this damage 
happened over time.  One of Mr Hs contractor reports shows  very high moisture  readings in 
the wall, which it says are because of the leaking pipe.  But I am not persuaded these high 
moisture readings could  have been obtained  as a result of one period of bad weather. In 
addition, the photographs Ive seen from both the surveyor and Mr H show  areas of damp or 
algae on the wall near the pipe, which suggests a build-up of moisture.  So on balance,  I 
think it is more likely  the damage to the wall and socket was gradual and happened  over 
time.
So for the reasons Ive stated above, my view is that it is more likely the damage to Mr Hs 
electrical socket was caused over a period of time,  and so it was fair for L&G to decline the 
claim. 
Ref: DRN98391763My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9839176