K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) terminated his income  
protection claim. 
background
Mr D stopped work in his role as a farm worker after injuring his knee. He made a claim 
under his income protection  policy, which LV accepted. Mr D required  surgery  on his knee, 
and LV covered the cost of this. The surgery took place in June 2016.  
Unfortunately, Mr D didnt recover from his surgery as quickly as expected.  However, in 
March 2017, LV received  confirmation from Mr Ds treating specialist that he could return  to 
work on a phased basis. LV agreed to provide cover up to June 2017,  to allow  Mr D to return  
to work. It then stopped his benefit.  
Although Mr D did attempt  to return to work around  this time, he then stopped again because  
of pain in his knee. He wanted LV to reinstate his benefit. 
LV obtained  further medical evidence  from Mr Ds specialist. However,  it didnt think  this 
supported that Mr D still wasnt able to work.  It therefore refused to reinstate Mr Ds benefit  
payments. Unhappy with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  LVs decision  to 
terminate the claim was reasonable. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There are two points for me to consider here. The first is whether it was reasonable for LV to 
terminate Mr Ds claim in June  2017. The second is whether LV ought  to have reinstated Mr 
Ds benefit payments  when his return to work was unsuccessful. 
Was it reasonable for LV to terminate the claim?
In terminating  the claim in June 2017, the onus is on LV to show that Mr D was able to return  
to work at that time.  
In 2015, Mr D was first referred to Mr P, a consultant  orthopaedic surgeon.  Mr P decided  to 
carry out surgery on Mr Ds knee  anterior cruciate  ligament  (ACL)  reconstruction.
As the NHS  waiting list for the surgery was around one year,  LV agreed to fund the surgery 
privately. This took place in June 2016. LV initially expected Mr D to recover  and be able to 
return to work by August 2016. However,  Mr D remained signed off by his GP. LV therefore 
continued paying the claim, but said it wanted  a report from Mr P. I think this was a 
reasonable approach. 
Ref: DRN98412782In September  2016, Mr P said Mr D was seen by the clinic  physio  the previous month, and 
his symptoms and clinical findings were greatly  improved. Mr P said he was happy for Mr D 
to fully weight  bear and work on a full range  of movement. As it had been three months since  
Mr Ds surgery,  Mr P said he could see no reason why Mr D couldnt return  to work. He 
thought it would be sensible to start a phased return. 
As I understand it, LV didnt receive  the above  report until March  2017. At that time, there 
was a further report from Mr P. He said hed reviewed Mr D in February 2017, and saw some 
improvement in him. Mr P explained  that Mr D told him he was still getting some  pain and 
discomfort in the lateral side of his knee, and what sounded like pseudo locking but no giving 
way. Mr P confirmed he was happy for Mr D to return to work on a phased  basis,  but he had 
emphasised that Mr D needed to be careful  when  getting up and down from machinery so as 
not to damage  the knee.
After receiving Mr Ps two reports, LV thought  Mr D was able to return to work.  However,  
given that Mr Ds GP had signed him off until 11 June 2017, LV said it would pay benefit up 
to this date. The claim then terminated.
Based on Mr Ps evidence  provided to LV in March  2017, I think LVs decision to terminate 
the claim when it did was reasonable. Mr D was able to fully weight bear and had a good 
range of movement.  Crucially, Mr P thought he was able to return to work, albeit on a 
phased basis. However, LV didnt terminate the claim in March 2017   benefit continued to 
be paid for over a further two months. I think that was fair, as this would  have allowed Mr D 
to build up his hours  and help with his transition back to work.
Should LV have  reinstated Mr Ds benefit payments when his return  to work was 
unsuccessful?
As I understand it, Mr D returned to work around March/April  2017,  but then stopped again 
because he was experiencing  pain.  I dont know the exact date he stopped. His GP 
continued to sign him off work, and so in September 2017,  LV requested a further report 
from Mr P.
Mr P provided his report in November  2017.  He explained that Mr D had again been 
reviewed in his clinic by a physio in August 2017. He said Mr D had described some 
discomfort in his knee  that was fairly vague  and imprecise. Apparently, he didnt describe 
any giving  way or locking. On examination,  the ACL graft was found to be working normally,  
and the only area of discomfort  was that adjacent  to the patella  tendon,  and hed been given 
physio exercises to do. Mr P said a further MRI in April 2017  showed the ACL graft to be 
intact, but there was a small radial  tear in the lateral meniscus. A return to work wasnt  
discussed at this time, but Mr P said hed reviewed Mr D in May 2017, and during that 
appointment, Mr D had mentioned hed returned to work and Mr P agreed  with this. Mr P 
said to the best of his knowledge, he thought Mr D had progressed down this route. 
In January 2018, Mr P reviewed Mr D. He said Mr D told him he had intermittent  pain and 
discomfort in his knee,  with intermittent locking and giving way. And Mr D had told him he 
hadnt been able to work as he had difficulty  going  up and down machinery. Mr P said he 
was slightly at a loss as to the cause of Mr Ds problems, and the only thing he could think to 
do would  be an examination under anaesthesia,  and look at his knee to see if there was any 
other pathology ongoing. Mr P pointed out that on a previous MRI scan  there was concern 
about a possible  lateral meniscal tear, and said he would look at this area.  
Ref: DRN98412783As I understand it, the exploratory surgery was initially arranged for July 2018, but Mr D 
didnt go ahead with this as it coincided with a family  wedding  that he wanted to attend. The 
surgery was then rearranged for November 2018,  but this was put back  again  as Mr D was 
having investigations for chest pain. I understand this was rearranged  for May 2019, though  I 
dont know if this went ahead.  
For me to require LV to reinstate Mr Ds benefit  payments  from June 2017,  Id expect the 
medical evidence  from around that time to support that he was experiencing debilitating 
symptoms that prevented  him from returning to work, despite Mr Ps expectation that he 
could. But that doesnt seem to be the case. Thats not to say that he wasnt  experiencing 
any symptoms, I think  its apparent that he was. But that doesnt mean those symptoms 
were severe enough to prevent him from working. 
When Mr P met with Mr D in May 2017,  he understood Mr D was working at that time and 
was supportive of this. And although Mr D had been  examined by a physio  in Mr Ps clinic in 
August 2017,  it seems  he didnt mention that hed stopped  working again (though  I note Mr 
D disputes this). Nevertheless,  at this examination, the ACL graft that had been done  the 
previous June was found to be working normally, and there  was only one area of discomfort 
in Mr Ds knee. Noticeably Mr D didnt describe his knee giving way or locking at that time. 
Based on this, there doesnt seem  any obvious reason why Mr Ds return  to work hadnt 
been successful.
In Mr Ps report  of November 2017, he noted that an MRI carried out in April that year had 
shown a small radial tear in the lateral  meniscus. However, he didnt say that he thought  this 
may be responsible  for Mr Ds ongoing problems, or that it was likely he wouldnt be able to 
work as a result. In fact, in Mr Ps later report of January 2018, he said he was at a loss as to 
the cause of Mr Ps problems (despite  knowing of this small tear). 
As LV has pointed  out, theres no clinical reason to explain why Mr D hasnt been able to 
work following his surgery. That doesnt mean there  isnt a clinical  reason, but if there is, we 
dont know what it is. For that reason, Mr P intended  to carry out exploratory  surgery.  As Ive 
said, I dont know if that surgery has now gone  ahead. If it has, and Mr P has found a clinical  
reason to explain Mr Ds ongoing symptoms which would support why he hasnt been able to 
work, Mr D should provide  this to LV. But based  on the available medical evidence from Mr 
Ds specialist, I think it was reasonable for LV to refuse to reinstate Mr Ds benefit payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9841278