K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about issues shes experienced with a motorbike supplied  with finance from 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc.
background
On 20 July 2018 Mrs T was supplied  with a used motorbike and entered  into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Santander. 
Mrs T says she experienced  issues with the bike as soon as it was delivered.  These  issues 
included:
Oil leak
Faulty brake light
No horn
Faulty speedometer
Illegal  MOT
Mrs T says she exercised her right to reject  the bike within the first 30 days.  She contacted 
the supplying  dealer  who said as a gesture of goodwill it would  repair or refund the bike once 
it had been returned.
Mrs T felt the dealership  should be responsible for collecting  the bike and refused to return it 
at her expense.
Mrs T first contacted  Santander on 7 August 2018. She asked  to reject the bike. Santander 
told Mrs T it would need the dealerships authority before it could  unwind  the agreement.
Mrs T says she asked  the dealership to authorise the unwinding of the agreement.  The 
dealership didnt do this.
In early September 2018 Santander told Mrs T it would arrange for the bike to be returned to 
the dealership.  Mrs T told Santander she had disposed of the bike.
Mrs T says she has rejected the bike. She says she disposed of it because  it wasnt 
collected from her. She wants Santander to unwind the agreement. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to confirm what 
faults the bike had and that Santander  and/or the dealership should have been provided with 
evidence of the faults before deciding whether  or not to allow Mrs T to reject  the bike.
Mrs T didnt  agree. She said regardless of any faults, the bike had an illegal MOT.  She also 
said the onus  wasnt on her to prove the bike was faulty because the faults had arisen  within 
the first 6 months of the point of supply. Mrs T said she asked the supplying dealer to collect  
the bike but because they failed to do so she disposed of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96314742Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  a consumer has the right to reject  goods within 30 
days where there is an admission that the goods are not of satisfactory quality.
In Mrs Ts case, and even  though she tried to reject the bike within  30 days, I havent  seen 
any information to suggest that there  has been  an admission that the bike wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the chain  of correspondence  between  Mrs T and the supplying dealer. 
Although the dealer offered to repair the bike or refund the purchase price, this offer was 
expressed as a gesture of goodwill and therefore  cannot be construed as an admission that 
the bike wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
I can see that Mrs T asked the supplying  dealer  to authorise Santander to unwind the credit 
agreement. But the dealer didnt give such authorisation. Because of this, Im not satisfied 
that there  was a rejection  of the bike.
Ive gone on to consider the rights  of a consumer under  the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
where faults arise  within the first 6 months.
Because Santander has supplied the bike under a fixed sum loan agreement, it is equally 
responsible with the supplier if theres  been  a breach of contract. There is a legal 
requirement that the bike has to be of satisfactory  quality.  If it is not of satisfactory  quality 
this is a breach  of contract. A bike is of satisfactory quality if it is of a standard  that a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account  all of the relevant circumstances such  
as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the bike and the price  paid.
Mrs T says the bike had faults  at the point  of supply. In order to determine whether  the bike 
was of satisfactory quality  I need  to look at the available evidence.
I havent been provided with any evidence to show that the bike had faults. I can see that the 
dealership offered to inspect the bike but Mrs T wasnt inclined to meet the costs of returning  
the bike to the dealership. Nor did she arrange  to have the bike inspected locally to her. I 
can also see that Santander offered to make arrangements  to transport the bike back to the 
dealer for inspection.  However, by this time Mrs T had disposed of the bike.
Because I havent  seen any evidence that the bike had faults, I cant be satisfied that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I appreciate that Mrs T didnt want to incur the costs of returning  the bike to the dealership 
for inspection. But once Santander had offered  to meet those costs, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Santander to expect  the bike to be made available for inspection.  Mrs T 
says that she disposed of the bike. I dont think she acted reasonably in doing  this. The bike 
was the property of Santander and Mrs T didnt have authority to dispose of it. Even if 
Santander had accepted  a rejection  of the bike (which I have found it didnt), Mrs T would 
still have been  obliged to return the bike to Santander.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think its reasonable  to ask Santander to unwind the 
agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN96314743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9631474