K821x#15complaint
Mr J says he was advised  by Lord Clarke Limited  to transfer the benefits from his defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) in 2013. He 
says the transfer  was unsuitable.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr J was a member of a defined  benefit occupational pension  scheme.  The scheme 
closed for future accrual in 2011 and was replaced  by a group personal  pension. In 2012,  
Mr J engaged the services of Lord Clarke Limited. In 2013,  he transferred his deferred 
occupational scheme benefits to a SIPP with Provider  A. A discretionary  fund manager  
(DFM) was used to manage Mr Js investments.  
In 2016 Mr J complained  to Lord Clarke Limited. His complaint covered a number  of areas,  
but his central  concern was that he didnt think the advice  to transfer his defined benefit  
occupational pension scheme  was suitable. Lord Clarke Limited said it explicitly advised 
against the transfer and only facilitated  it on Mr Js insistence. As a result, it didnt think it 
had done anything wrong.
In my provisional decision,  I decided to partially uphold  Mr Js complaint. I said, in short, that 
Lord Clarke Limited had advised against the transfer  but Mr J had wanted to go against that 
advice. However, I thought that Lord Clarke Limiteds recommendation to use a DFM wasnt 
suitable given  Mr Js circumstances  and needs. So I upheld  this part of Mr Js complaint. 
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  findings.  I address their comments  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties  have said the transfer  of Mr Js defined  benefit occupational scheme wasnt 
suitable  its the central  element of Mr Js complaint and Lord Clarke Limited said it advised  
Mr J against the transfer in the first place.  So I wont dwell on this in my decision  I will 
proceed on the basis of the transfer being unsuitable. The issues  I need to decide upon are 
whether Lord Clarke  Limited did advise Mr J against the transfer and, if so, did Mr J decide 
to proceed anyway.
In my provisional decision,  I referenced Lord Clarke  Limiteds transfer report  letter to Mr J 
dated 11 January  2013. The letter said, in brief, that Lord Clarke Limited wasnt 
recommending the transfer along  with the reasons why it wasnt doing  so, which were mainly 
because the returns  needed from any new pension were too high to match the benefits  
being given up. This applied even if the transferring scheme had to go into the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF). The letter also set out what the potential implications of transferring 
would be. And it said Mr J wanted  to proceed  with the transfer despite Lord Clarke Limiteds 
advice. In my provisional decision, I quoted several paragraphs to illustrate these points. I 
wont repeat  those paragraphs  here because my provisional decision is attached and forms 
Ref: DRN95252682part of this final decision. However, I have  looked at the transfer report  again  and Im 
satisfied with my initial conclusions. That is, the report clearly sets out Lord Clarke Limiteds 
advice to not transfer and records Mr Js decision to proceed nonetheless.  
In response, Mr J asks why any rational  person would have transferred if they had been  
advised against doing so, especially  given the protections  provided  by the PPF. The only 
explanation, in Mr Js view, is that Lord Clarke Limiteds paper trail doesnt  reflect  the reality 
of what happened. He says (as he did previously) that Lord Clarke Limited didnt provide the 
transfer report letter and didnt advise against the transfer meaning Mr J wasnt  acting  on an 
insistent basis. He says Lord Clarke  Limited was able to dupe  Mr J in this way because  of 
information asymmetries between the parties.  He says its motivation for acting in this way 
was the commission  it could earn just before commission payments came  to end (Mr J is 
presumably referring to the Retail Distribution Review here).
I covered these points  in my provisional  decision.  And I concluded Mr Js comments  were 
plausible. After all, there  is no confirmation  that Mr J received, and understood, the transfer  
report. And there  is no written record giving Mr Js reasons  in his own words  for wanting 
to proceed with the transfer. Getting this written evidence from Mr J would have been good 
practice. It means its possible,  as Mr J argues, that Lord Clarke Limited didnt give Mr J the 
letter advising against the transfer   but kept a copy on record for audit purposes  and then 
used its meetings with Mr J to recommend that he should transfer.
However, I have to make my decision based  on what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened given  the available evidence. And its difficult to ignore the fact that there is a 
transfer report letter that outlines Lord Clarke Limiteds advice  and records  Mr Js decision  to 
go against that advice. And, as I outlined in my provisional decision,  theres  evidence  to 
show that the letter was produced and printed ahead of Lord Clarke Limiteds meetings with 
Mr J. I think this makes  it likely that it was used during those meetings. There is also a 
separate transfer analysis report which is dated  ahead of the advice meetings. And there  is 
evidence to show Mr J had specific reasons for why he would have wanted  to act against  
Lord Clarke Limiteds advice  his well-documented concerns  about  the viability  of the 
pension schemes  sponsoring  employer and his wish to pay down his mortgage. Mr Js 
actions after the transfer are also in keeping with this latter point because he did go on to 
use his pension to pay down his mortgage  on several occasions. Given  all this, my view was 
 and remains  that Mr J was likely to have been  advised against the transfer but decided  
to proceed nonetheless.
I recognise Mr J says paying the mortgage  wasnt a pressing  concern  and that he wasnt  
financially stretched  as Lord Clarke Limited  has recorded during the advice process.  
However, the fact is there are references in the advice documentation about  the size of 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage and references  to concerns about Mrs J not being paid by her 
employer. So the evidence is contradictory here. But even if I accept that Mr J was under no 
financial pressure, he nevertheless used his pension  to pay down his mortgage. Even if it 
was to reduce  its term, rather  than because of any concern about servicing the debt, the 
motivation to transfer still seems to have been there. And whilst  I recognise Mr Js point 
about Lord Clarke  Limited encouraging this course of action   stoking the fire in his words   
there isnt any evidence to show the advice meetings were conducted in this way. 
I do recognise Mr Js strength of feeling on this and I have considered  his comments very 
carefully. However, as Im sure he appreciates, there is very little corroborating  evidence for 
his version of events  whereas there is such evidence for Lord Clarke Limiteds case  much 
of it written, contemporaneous, evidence. 
Ref: DRN95252683Mr J has also provided some  additional evidence to show  the regulatory requirements  Lord 
Clarke Limited should have followed,  along with some comments on different  business 
models and charging  structures. Ive considered these submissions carefully, but they dont 
change my mind. As I said in my provisional  decision, and above, Lord Clarke Limited could 
have done better here. However,  Im satisfied its failings arent reason enough,  given all the 
available evidence, to uphold this part of Mr Js complaint.
In my provisional decision I went on to consider Lord Clarke Limiteds advice to Mr J to use a 
DFM to manage his transferred assets.  I thought a DFM added an extra  layer  of expense  
and it wasnt clear  to me why that extra expense would have been suitable  for Mr J given his 
circumstances and needs. I provisionally  concluded that Mr J should  be compensated for 
Lord Clarke Limiteds unsuitable recommendation in this area.
Lord Clarke Limited disagreed. It made a number of comments which I address below. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I have considered everything it has said even though  my response 
doesnt closely follow the same order as Lord Clarke Limiteds submission.
Firstly, Lord Clarke Limited says it was for Mr J to persuade me that the DFM  was unsuitable  
rather than for me to reach  that conclusion independently. It is mistaken.  Mr J brought  his 
complaint to us. His complaint relates  to the advice he was given, including  the advice  he 
was given to use a DFM.  It was then my role to review the evidence  including  the 
arguments and submissions provided  by both parties  to decide on an outcome that was 
fair and reasonable given all the circumstances  of the complaint. This is what I did in my 
provisional decision  and what I have done in this final decision  too.
Secondly, Lord Clarke Limited says the fact that Mr J could have invested in funds through  
Provider A, and this could have been suitable,  doesnt mean  the use of the DFM  therefore  
becomes unsuitable.  I agree, but that wasnt the point  I was making in my provisional 
decision. The point  I was making was that it wasnt clear to me why it was suitable for Mr J to 
have incurred the extra cost of a DFM  given  his circumstances didnt suggest he had a need 
for it. The funds available through Provider A were  a useful benchmark for what Mr J could  
have done  so I referenced  these  funds in my provisional decision.  But the starting point in 
my thinking  was the DFM,  and whether  it was suitable for Mr J.
Thirdly, Lord Clarke Limited points to Mr Js medium attitude to risk and the high returns he 
needed to achieve in his SIPP  to keep pace with the benefits he was giving up in his 
occupational scheme.  Lord Clarke Limited  argues that this necessitated the use of a DFM  
rather than more traditional pooled funds. It says a DFM was in a better  position  to generate 
the extra returns needed because it can invest in specialist vehicles and can monitor, and 
rebalance, portfolios in a way that wouldnt have been an option  otherwise. On a similar 
note, Lord Clarke Limited says a DFM allows the more efficient withdrawal  of income  
because it can manage a portfolio in a way that means withdrawals match payments from 
the underlying  investments (dividends  or interest  payments for example). This means Mr J 
would have avoided  unnecessarily selling  units  in pooled funds which  could have incurred 
costs for him and could have resulted in him disinvesting at inopportune times (following a 
sharp fall in the stock market for example).  
I dont dispute  the potential  benefits  of a DFM. And I dont  dispute  that paying  for a DFM can 
be worthwhile. However,  the point  is whether  a DFM  was a worthwhile  additional expense  
for Mr J given  his specific needs and circumstances. Based on Lord Clarke Limiteds transfer 
report letter  it would be very difficult to draw that conclusion. As Lord Clarke Limited has 
Ref: DRN95252684acknowledged, typographical  errors in the report meant some of the reasons it put forward to 
support the DFM arent relevant  because they related  to a prior matter (essentially a 
different report for a different client). But even putting this to one side, the other reasons 
Lord Clarke Limited gave  in its report for recommending the DFM are generic and not 
specific enough to Mr Js situation. Lord Clarke Limiteds comments  in response to my 
provisional decision hint at what it could have said to show  the suitability of the DFM.  Even 
so, its later explanations are still rather generic  and dont  point  to, say, Mr Js specific  income 
needs and why a DFM would be necessary to meet them  (especially given his early income 
needs were already being met by keeping a significant portion of his pension  in cash  funds).
Fourthly, Lord Clarke  Limited says it provided clear information to Mr J with regards to the 
costs of the DFM so he was, demonstrably,  happy to take on the extra costs in return  for the 
potential benefits  the DFM could bring. However,  Lord Clarke Limited is missing the point 
here. It was advising Mr J so it had to ensure its advice was suitable. For the reasons given 
in my provisional decision,  and above, Im not persuaded  that its advice was suitable  
because I dont think Mr J should  have been advised to incur  the extra  costs of a DFM. The 
fact that information  was provided on those costs  doesnt change this. 
Lord Clarke Limited has also referred  to my comments on its September  2013 personal  
pension review which showed the total expense ratio (TER) for the DFM as being 1.48%. I 
pointed out that no comparison figures for Provider As funds were provided.  Lord Clarke  
Limited disagrees and has reproduced the table from that review  to show a comparison was 
provided. Ive considered  this again, but the figure for the DFM is quoted  as 1.48%  TER 
whereas the figures for the various funds available through Provider A dont have the TER 
suffix. This leads me to think the DFM  figure is calculated in a different way to the other 
figures quoted  in the table. It may not be, and the table may show  a true like-for-like 
comparison. But its not immediately clear to me if that is the case. Either  way, it doesnt  
make a difference to the outcome of the complaint because the TER figure  doesnt  appear to 
have been provided to Mr J at the time of his initial advice. And even if information  on costs  
had been provided in a comprehensive and clear  manner, Lord Clarke Limited still had to 
provide suitable  advice   which it didnt do.
Finally, Lord Clarke Limited says if I continue to find in favour of Mr J on this issue then I 
should arrange for Mr J to provide  Lord Clarke Limited with the necessary information in 
relation to fund withdrawals to allow it to calculate  compensation  before I finalise my views.  It 
says it wants to do this because it thinks Mr J hasnt lost out financially relative  to the 
benchmark I proposed  in my provisional  decision which, it says, supports its view that the 
DFM was suitable all along.
It may be the case that the compensation calculation doesnt result in a financial loss for 
Mr J. But this just means  the DFM, and Mr J, have enjoyed good returns  relative  to a 
benchmark for the period  under review.  This doesnt necessarily make the DFM suitable, just 
as a period of relatively poor returns wouldnt necessarily have rendered it unsuitable either. 
Given this, and taking  everything else into consideration, I feel able to make a final decision 
on Mr Js complaint with the information  that is currently available.     
It follows that I uphold  this aspect of Mr Js complaint. Should Mr J accept this final decision, 
Lord Clarke Limited will have to make  the necessary arrangements (including liaising  directly  
with Mr J where necessary) to pay compensation in line with the approach detailed below.
Ref: DRN95252685other issues
In my provisional decision,  I noted that Mr J had also complained  (or appeared to have 
complained) about  his FSAVC and Section 32 policies, which  were  transferred to his SIPP at 
the same  time as his defined benefit  occupational  pension scheme. In my provisional 
decision, I noted that Mr J hadnt mentioned anything specific  about why he was complaining 
about these two policies other than to say he expected compensation to take these policies 
into account. In my provisional decision,  I noted  that the policies were transferred to money 
market funds (rather than to the DFM) with a view to being  released to pay down 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage. So I didnt see any reason why the transfer of these two policies 
was unsuitable.  Mr J didnt have any substantive further comments  on this, so I remain 
satisfied with my provisional  conclusions.   
Likewise, Mr J expressed concern about the advice  he was given in relation to recycling his 
pension. In my provision decision,  I concluded  Mr J hadnt lost out financially  because of this 
advice. As Mr J didnt provide any significant  further comments  on this matter, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings on this issue.
fair compensation
In relation to the DFM,  in assessing fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr J in the position 
he would  have been in  as far as possible   had he not been advised to use the DFM. I 
take the view that Mr J would, most likely, have chosen to invest in one, or more, of 
Provider As funds instead of using the DFM. But its not possible to say precisely  what  Mr J 
would have done. Nevertheless,  Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Js circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
To compensate Mr J fairly  Lord Clarke  Limited  should:
Compare the performance of Mr Js DFM investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
Lord Clarke Limited should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be 
payable on any interest awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Js pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  
or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making  a deduction 
of 15%.  The payment would otherwise have been used to provide pension  benefits, 
25% of which  would be tax free and the rest would have  been taxed according to his 
likely tax paying status in retirement   presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction  
adequately reflects  this.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN95252686investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Mr Js SIPP 
funds 
invested  
with the 
DFMstill existsFTSE  UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return  Indexdate of
investmentdate of
my final 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance 
of decision)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Lord Clarke Limited totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr J wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called  an income  index,  the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Js circumstances and risk attitude.
The DFM  arrangement only exists  because of Lord Clarke Limiteds advice. I dont think it would 
be a particularly quick process for Mr J to end the DFM  arrangement and move his assets  to 
something simpler and cheaper.  At the very least,  he might want to research Provider As funds 
with the help of a financial adviser.  With this in mind, I think  it only fair for Lord Clarke Limited to 
Ref: DRN95252687pay at least something in recognition of this. Quantifying this isnt an exact science. However, if 
I use Lord Clarke Limiteds  tariff as a proxy, and assuming 3 hours of advice is required, then 
Lord Clarke Limited should pay Mr J £600  compensation. It should  also pay for the trouble and 
upset that unwinding the DFM arrangement will cause. I think £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, bringing compensation for this aspect  of the complaint up to £750. 
The £750  should be paid direct to Mr J rather than into his pension  but should  only be paid if the 
calculations referred  to above show there has been a financial loss. If the calculations  show 
Mr J has made a gain from the DFM, then Mr J has been put in a better position than he 
otherwise should  have  been in, so I dont think it would  be fair to pay compensation on top of 
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Js complaint. Lord Clarke Limited 
should pay Mr J compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN95252688COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr J says he was advised  by Lord Clarke Limited to transfer the benefits from his defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2013. He says the 
transfer was unsuitable.
background
Mr J was a member of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme. The scheme closed for future 
accrual in 2011 and was replaced by a group personal  pension. In 2012, Mr J engaged the services  of 
Lord Clarke Limited.  In 2013, he transferred his deferred occupational pension benefits to a SIPP with 
Provider A. A discretionary fund manager (DFM)  was used to manage Mr Js investments. 
In 2016 Mr J complained  to Lord Clarke Limited. His complaint covered a number  of areas, but his 
central concern was that he didnt think  the advice to transfer his occupational pension scheme 
benefits was suitable.  Lord Clarke Limited said it explicitly  advised  against the transfer and only 
facilitated it on Mr Js insistence. As a result, it didnt  think it had done anything wrong.
Mr J referred his complaint to us. An adjudicator  and an ombudsman have  issued their provisional  
conclusions. It now falls to me to finalise the outcome of Mr Js complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to partially uphold  Mr Js 
complaint. I explain why below,  but first I think its worth summarising some key facts and chronology 
of events.
overview and chronology
Mr and Mrs J met with Lord Clarke Limited  on 26 September 2012. Their main  concerns  were  
recorded as being their pensions, which they hadnt had any advice on previously, and protecting  
their mortgage  because  they were about  to buy a new house.  
It doesnt look like any advice was given at this point, but requests for information  from Mr Js 
various pension providers  were  sent out and Mr J completed  two questionnaires:
An attitude to risk questionnaire, the output  of which was presented in a Risk  Profiling 
Summary. This said Mr J had a medium attitude  to risk. 
A Pension  Transfer  Attitude Questionnaire which  recorded Mr Js attitude towards his 
occupational pension scheme benefits. The survey included notes  that appear to be in Mr 
Js hand writing.  The survey  shows  Mr J had concerns with regards to his occupational 
pension scheme  and wanted to pay down  his mortgage.  Mr J didnt sign the questionnaire  
until 2 September 2013 but Im satisfied it was completed before the transfer took place   
completing the questionnaire wouldnt have made sense otherwise  and most  likely 
during the 26 September 2012 meeting along with the other risk questionnaire.  
On 18 October 2012, Mr Js occupational  pension scheme sent Lord Clarke Limited a transfer 
value for Mr Js benefits, which was guaranteed until 18 January  2013.  The transfer value was a 
little over £170,000.
On 14 November 2012, Mr and Mrs J again  met with Lord Clarke Limited. The fact find doesnt 
record much other than to say Mr and Mrs J had changed  address.
Ref: DRN95252689Two representatives from Lord Clarke Limited  met with Mr and Mrs J at their home on 
9 January 2013. A further meeting took place  on 11 January.  It is during these meetings  that the 
decision to transfer was taken. The following  documentation was produced for the meetings:
A Pension  Transfer  Analysis report, written by Lord Clarke Limited and dated 8 January. 
This provided, amongst other things, the critical  yields for Mr Js transfer  that is, the 
returns he would have required from any new pension  to match  the benefits he would be 
giving up from his occupational scheme. Critical yields  were  calculated  assuming the 
scheme did, and didnt,  go into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF).
A fact find signed by the adviser on 10 January (but not by Mr and Mrs J). It recorded  (in 
the advisers  handwriting) a number of concerns on the part of Mr and Mrs J, specifically in 
relation to Mr Js occupational  pension  scheme, Mrs Js employer  (which hadnt paid her 
in recent weeks)  and the size of Mr and Mrs Js mortgage.  
A transfer  report letter produced by Lord Clarke Limited dated 11 January. Lord Clarke 
Limited says this was given  to Mr J during the meeting. The letter said, in brief, that Lord 
Clarke Limited didnt recommend the transfer because the critical yields were too high, 
even if the transferring scheme had to go into the PPF. It said Mr J still wanted to proceed.  
It provided an overview of the PPF.  It outlined  its recommendation for a SIPP provider. 
And it also recommended  Mr J use a DFM  to manage his investments.   
Application  forms for SIPP Provider A and for the DFM. These were signed by Mr J on 
11 January.
On 5 February  2013, Provider A emailed Lord Clarke Limited to confirm that Mr Js transfer 
monies had been  paid. Further  information  was sent in the post on 7 February.
The DFM wrote to Mr J on 15 February 2013  to confirm its understanding of Mr Js risk profile. 
Confirmation of various investments followed shortly after.  
On 10 February 2013, another  meeting between the parties took place. The fact find didnt  
include much detail, other  than to say Mr and Mrs J had not taken out mortgage protection due to 
its cost, Mr Js occupational  pension had been transferred  and Mr J was looking to move his 
other pension  plans.  
On 11 April 2013 Lord Clarke Limited wrote to Mr and Mrs J to outline its advice in relation to 
Mr Js remaining pensions. It said Mr and Mrs J were looking to reduce  the size of their mortgage 
because both their employers  were struggling  and because  they thought they had taken on too 
large a mortgage  following a recent house move. Its recommendation  was to consolidate two of 
Mr Js personal  pensions into the SIPP he had recently set up, to leave another pension as it was 
because it had valuable guarantees, and to leave his GPP as it was. Forms to complete  the 
transfer of the two pensions were signed by Mr J on 17 April 2013.
Another meeting between the parties took place  on 2 September  2013. Another fact find was 
completed which noted, amongst other things, that Mr and Mrs J were  keen to reduce their 
mortgage and had decided  to take cash from Mr Js pension  to achieve that.
Lord Clarke Limited wrote to Mr J on 19 September 2013. The letter said it was recommending 
£25,000 tax-free  cash be taken, by way of drawdown, from Mr Js pension to pay down the 
mortgage, with any residual to be used  as an emergency savings fund. It also recommended  
Mr J pay back into his SIPP some  of his pension payments  (a process  known as recycling). 
Provider A confirmed  this had been set up in November  2013.
Another meeting between the parties took place  on 28 July 2014. Another  fact find was 
completed in which  it was noted that Mr J was looking to release more cash from his pension in 
order to reduce his mortgage. Text messages  between Mr J and Lord Clarke Limited  in October  
Ref: DRN9525268102014 also show Mr J chasing Lord Clarke  Limited to release cash from his pension to pay off 
some of the mortgage.
On 18 November 2014 Lord Clarke Limited  sent a letter to Mr and Mrs J outlining the details  of 
its advice  that followed  the July meeting and subsequent text messages. It confirmed that a 
further £10,000  had been released from Mr Js pension to allow  him to pay a lump sum on the 
mortgage. It was noted that Mr J wanted to clear his mortgage liability as soon as possible so 
that he could  effectively plan for his retirement.
the decision to transfer Mr Js occupational  pension scheme benefits
Theres little need to dwell on the suitability of the transfer. Mr J says it wasnt suitable. Lord Clarke 
Limited said it wasnt suitable in its 11 January 2013  transfer report letter. So Im happy to proceed 
on that basis.  The issue is whether Mr J was advised against  the transfer but decided  to proceed 
anyway. If so, Lord Clarke  Limited wouldnt be responsible for the transfer and any financial  losses 
that may have  followed as a result.
My view is that Mr J did insist  on transferring and did so against the recommendation of Lord Clarke  
Limited. Ive come to that view because the 11 January  transfer report letter was, in my view, clear in 
saying Lord Clarke Limited wasnt recommending the transfer. And it was clear in saying it was Mr Js 
decision to proceed with the transfer.  It also set out the reasons  why it wasnt recommending the 
transfer and what the potential implications of not transferring  would be. Some  extracts from the letter 
illustrate these points:
we met at your homeDuring  this meeting  I reiterated that our advice is that you remain  a 
deferred member of the Scheme, as the figures provided from the scheme  indicate  that it will provide 
greater benefits over the long term. However, you are insistent on transferring  from the Scheme, as 
you do not see that it has a long term future for the reasons given below.  [page 1]
You believe  that as a whole  the business is struggling  following the takeover and fear that the 
company could fail/wind up the pension, with or without the payment of the pension  contributions. As 
a result of this you wish to transfer your preserved benefitsagainst our advice, as you do not wish to 
see a reduction in your benefits  should  the Scheme fail/wind up or end up in the Pension Protection  
Fund (PPF). In addition,  your decision is influenced by the fact that [Mr J] will be 55 in May and that 
following the transfer you plan to release some of the tax free cash  available  from your pension in 
stages to reduce your mortgage without incurring an early  repayment penalty.  [page 2]
As discussed, we do not believe any of the above critical yields are achievable and we have 
recommended that you retain your  benefits within the Scheme as a consequence  of this. 
However, as stated above you wish to proceed with the transfer  against our advice as you fear 
for both the financial security of your pension benefits  and your  employer as a whole, as you 
feel that the enforced payment  of the recovery plan could force the company into difficulties. 
[page 7, bold type in original  document]
By transferring  you are going against  our advice and are likely  to receive a lower pension in 
retirement as a consequence of this transfer, as the figures provided from the scheme indicate  
that it will provide long  term greater benefits. You however, remain insistent on transferring  
from the Scheme,  as you do not see that it has a long term  future. [page 13, bold type in original 
document]
By transferring  away  from your existing  scheme, all guarantees will be lostYou should  be aware  
that if you transfer you will be taking the investment risk, whereas  the employer (and ultimately  the 
PPF) takes the risk in most employers schemesEven if there is a cooling off period, it is unlikely 
that the ceding scheme will accept the benefits back once a transfer has been made. [page 13]
Mr J says he didnt receive the transfer report. He says he was never  told Lord Clarke Limited wasnt 
recommending the transfer. And he says he didnt insist on the transfer. 
Ref: DRN952526811There isnt any written  confirmation from Mr J to show he had been made  aware of Lord Clarke 
Limiteds advice and that it was his decision to proceed with the transfer. This wasnt a regulatory 
requirement at the time. Even so, I think it would have been good practice  to have had this 
confirmation  preferably in Mr Js own words. And the lack of confirmation does  make Mr Js 
comments plausible. Its certainly possible that Mr J wasnt shown, or didnt see, the transfer report. 
And its also possible  that Lord Clarke Limited  conducted  its meetings with Mr J in a way that 
suggested it was recommending the transfer even though the paperwork said otherwise. 
However, I think the other evidence from around the time is illustrative  here. In my view, it supports 
Lord Clarke Limiteds case  because: 
1.Lord Clarke Limiteds computer records show the transfer report letter was created on 
7 January 2013 and printed on 11 January  2013. It means work on the letter was started  ahead of 
the advice  meetings and that a hard copy was produced  on the day of the second meeting. This 
isnt definitive  proof that the letter did form part of the advice process. But producing  the letter 
ahead of the first meeting, and printing it ahead of the second meeting, makes it more  likely, in my 
view, that it was used during those meetings. 
2.The Pension Transfer  Analysis report was dated 8 January 2013. Again,  this doesnt mean it was 
presented to Mr J. But its another piece  of documentary  evidence that looks to have been 
produced ahead of the meetings between the parties. As such, I think it likely  that it was used in 
those meetings. 
3.I consider it unlikely that Mr J would  have  proceeded without any written indication  of 
Lord Clarke Limiteds position with regards to the merits of the transfer.
4.It was only during the second meeting that the transfer paperwork was signed.  If Lord Clarke 
Limited was intent on ensuring Mr J transferred, I dont see why it would  have conducted two 
meetings to do this. More likely  as Lord Clarke Limited  has said  is that the first meeting was 
arranged to discuss  Lord Clarke Limiteds findings,  with the second  meeting only arranged  
because Mr J still wanted to go ahead with the transfer and had to sign a number of forms to do 
so. 
5.Im satisfied  Mr J did want to access his pension in order to pay down  his mortgage:
Ahead of the transfer, Mr and Mrs J had just moved home and had taken  on a bigger 
mortgage. 
The January 2013 fact find records Mr and Mrs J as wanting to pay down the mortgage at the 
earliest opportunity. It also said Mrs J was concerned about her employer  which hadnt paid 
her for the last couple of weeks (and she subsequently found a new employer, as recorded  
in the 2 September 2013  fact find).
It looks like Mr and Mrs J had a limited buffer of emergency  cash.
In the Pension Transfer Attitude Questionnaire, Mr J noted: [I] may require  cash  lump  sum 
to reduce mortgage  at the earliest  opportunity.
The transfer report recommended £23,000 of the transfer proceeds to remain in cash  
specifically to allow Mr J to pay off some of the mortgage  four months later when he reached 
55.
Following the transfer, Mr J did take the opportunity to use his pension  to pay down the 
mortgage. He did this several  times, proactively chasing the adviser up to do so on at least 
one occasion.
Ref: DRN9525268126.Im satisfied  Mr J did have concerns about the viability of his occupational  scheme:
In the Pension Transfer Attitude Questionnaire, Mr J has ticked  a box to say he has serious 
concerns about the financial stability of his employer  and that he doesnt wish his benefits to 
remain under their control.  In what looks like his own handwriting, he says [I] have no faith 
in employer and the survival of the scheme. 
The January 2013 fact find and pension transfer report repeat Mr Js concerns about his 
pension scheme.
Mr Js concerns about the pension scheme werent without  foundation. It had recently closed 
to future accrual.  It was in deficit.  There had been a recent change  of ownership  of the 
sponsoring employer.  And Mr J has said there was talk within  the company  about unpaid 
creditors.
Mr J has subsequently confirmed  his concerns about the pension scheme. In a letter to Lord 
Clarke Limited in 2016 he said he was worried about its closure and the new owner  of the 
sponsoring employer.  He also told us: I had concerns regarding the new owner of the 
company and his track record, my concern  was would I be at risk of losing  my pension after 
20 plus years of paying my contributions.
None of the above is definitive  proof in favour of Lord Clarke  Limiteds position. Nonetheless, there is 
documentary evidence that Lord Clarke Limited  advised against the transfer and that Mr J wanted to 
act against that advice.  Theres a thread running throughout the case file which  shows Mr J had 
specific reasons  why he would have wanted to act against Lord Clarke Limiteds advice. And his 
actions after the transfer are in keeping with what the various fact finds and advice letters have said 
his priorities were. I consider  all this, in aggregate, to be persuasive.
Ive considered Mr Js point  that Lord Clarke  Limited  is responsible for raising Mr Js concerns about 
his mortgage and occupational pension  scheme. Its an important  point because it wouldnt be fair for 
Lord Clarke Limited to have stoked the fire (in Mr Js words) only to claim later that the transfer was 
all Mr Js doing. And Mr Js comments are certainly  plausible. It wouldnt be a stretch to imagine  an 
adviser focussing  on someones concerns  about their mortgage. Being able to pay off a mortgage  is a 
common worry after all. Likewise, it wouldnt be a stretch for an adviser  to pick up on problems at a 
clients employer and use this to justify the need to transfer out of that companys pension scheme. 
So I have given Mr Js comments  serious  attention.   
However, for the reasons  given above, Mr Js concerns  about the mortgage and pension scheme 
dont strike me as being generic concerns that have  been  latched on to, and exaggerated  by, the 
adviser. As outlined  above, it seems  to me that Mr Js concerns were much more  specific, and long 
standing, than that. Those concerns have been articulated in his own words as evidenced by the 
Pension Transfer Attitude  Questionnaire and subsequent correspondence with both Lord Clarke  
Limited and us. And, as Ive said above, Mr Js actions after the transfer are also illustrative  because  
he has gone  on to use his pension to pay off his mortgage which  was one of the concerns  Mr J was 
said to have  had.
Mr J has said that the role of the PPF wasnt explained. This is important because the PPF would 
have provided a degree of protection for Mr Js occupational scheme  benefits,  thereby reducing the 
incentive to transfer even when the viability of the scheme has been questioned. 
I do have some concerns  about  how the PPF was presented by Lord Clarke Limited. For example, in 
the transfer  report, theres the following line:
As more and more Defined  Benefit Schemes close there are fewer schemes paying into the PPF 
putting greater strain upon  it.
Ref: DRN952526813This doesnt strike me as being a particularly neutral, or fair, statement. But, against this, both the 
pension transfer analysis and the transfer report do explain in some detail the role of the PPF.  And 
there are a number of other statements that would  have  given Mr J the information  he needed, 
including a statement that said the PPF provides  a valuable level of protection.  The critical yield 
assuming the scheme  went into the PPF was also provided. This showed  the returns from a personal 
pension wouldnt likely allow Mr J to match the benefits of his occupational scheme  even if it did go 
into the PPF. This was explained in the transfer report  and Lord Clarke Limited advised Mr J against 
transferring for that very reason. So I think, on balance, Lord Clarke Limited did give Mr J information  
on the PPF and did so in a way that would have allowed  him to have made  an informed decision.
Mr J has also questioned  why he would have transferred if he had been advised against doing  so and 
given the relatively high returns  he would  have needed to achieve  just to keep pace  with his 
occupational scheme benefits (even if it went into the PPF). This argument rests  on the notion that 
Lord Clarke Limited must have done something wrong because otherwise it doesnt appear to have 
made sense  for Mr J to transfer. But, for the reasons given above,  it seems to me Mr J did have 
specific reasons  for wanting  to transfer. And whilst the transfer may well have had a negative impact 
on his pension (although this isnt known) that doesnt necessarily mean Mr J wouldnt have wanted to 
go ahead with it. 
I do recognise Mr Js strength of feeling on this, and I have considered everything he has said very 
carefully. However, the evidence does favour Lord Clarke  Limited on this issue. It follows that I dont 
uphold this aspect of Mr Js complaint. 
Mr Js DFM
Even though  Im satisfied Mr J did want to transfer his pension and did so against Lord Clarke 
Limiteds advice, I am concerned  about the use of a DFM  to manage his investment funds. 
Lord Clarke Limited advised  Mr J to use a DFM, and recommended which one to use. But a DFM 
added an extra layer  of expense to the management of Mr Js pension. Its not particularly clear  how 
much the extra cost of the DFM was. In the January transfer report the annual management charge 
for the DFM  was put at 0.5%  plus VAT,  plus dealing costs. In the 8 April 2013 transfer analysis report, 
the DFMs ongoing charge (which includes  annual management charges  and additional expenses) 
was 0.84%. By comparison, the equivalent for Provider  As balanced consensus fund (which I take to 
be medium  risk and therefore in line with Mr Js attitude to risk) was 0.13%, so a difference  of at least  
0.7%. In the 19 September 2013 Personal Pension Review letter, the DFMs total expense ratio 
(TER) was put at 1.48%, but comparison TERs for Provider As funds arent  provided. So the 
additional expense  of the DFM relative to a medium risk fund that Mr J could have invested in through 
Provider A looks to have been at least 0.7%, but could have  been higher.  
Its possible that the DFM  may have performed better than a standard  pooled fund that Mr J could 
have accessed through Provider  A and this better performance  could have offset the increased  cost 
of the DFM. But this could never have been guaranteed, whereas the increase in cost was certain. So 
Id expect there to be a robust rationale  for the DFM recommendation.  
However, the rationale for the DFM in Mr Js case doesnt appear to be particularly strong. The 11 
January 2013 transfer report said the DFM would provide a bespoke  and tailored service. It said 
Mr J was seeking  a wide range of investment flexibility and control.  And it said he would be able to 
benefit from hands-on management of his pension  and from being able to liaise with the DFM 
whenever he needed to. But its not clear to me why any of this would have been important to Mr J. 
He doesnt appear to have had any particularly  esoteric investment needs that would  have required a 
bespoke approach.  His attitude to risk was recorded as being medium which  would typically  be 
available in standard pooled  funds. And he doesnt appear to have had an interest in a more hands-
on approach to his investments. 
Ref: DRN952526814The transfer  report also says Mr J wanted to use a DFM because:
you would like to utilize  the services  of the same DFM  as your husband. This will allow you to 
benefit from his expert knowledge and will allow  the creation of a high medium risk portfolio
The reference  to husband, his expert knowledge  and high medium risk makes  little sense given 
Mr J had a wife, didnt appear to have expert knowledge  and had been  recorded as having a medium 
attitude to risk. Its possible,  therefore, that Lord Clarke  Limited used wording from another  clients 
advice letter in Mr Js letter. Whatever  the reason, it adds to the sense that it didnt give personalised  
advice to Mr J in relation to the DFM. 
I accept that Lord Clarke Limited  pointed  out the additional charges  of the DFM in the transfer report. 
Nevertheless, it was obliged to give suitable advice. Providing information  doesnt negate the need to 
do this. For the reasons given  above,  Im not persuaded that the advice in relation to the DFM was 
suitable. It seems to me that Mr J could  have  transferred  to the SIPP and invested in Provider As own 
funds. Im satisfied he would  have been able to choose a fund,  or a number  of funds, in line with his 
attitude to risk and would  have  been able to do so at a lower cost than using a DFM.  
Given the above,  Lord Clarke Limited  should  compensate  Mr J for the advice it gave in relation to the 
DFM. It should do so in line with the approach given  below.
other issues
Lord Clarke Limited subsequently looked into Mr Js other pensions. In its 11 April 2013 advice  letter it 
recommend that he transfer a FSAVC  pension  and a Section 32 policy into the SIPP that had just 
been set up. It also recommended that Mr J should retain another personal  pension because  it had 
valuable guaranteed  annuity  rates  attached to it. 
The FSAVC had a transfer value of £4,915 and the Section 32 policy  had a transfer value of £1,521,  
so £6,436  in total. Both were  transferred to the SIPP  in May 2013. The transfer proceeds were 
invested in a money market fund. 
Its not clear to me whether these transfers are part of Mr Js complaint.  Mr J has said to us that he 
expects these  transfers to be included in any compensation.  But I havent seen any specific 
comments about why these transfers were  unsuitable. However, for the sake  of completeness, its 
worth mentioning that the transfer proceeds went into a money market fund rather than to the DFM. 
And the advice letter said this was chosen in anticipation of drawing down on the funds  to pay down 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage.  As this does seem to have been  a priority for them,  I see no reason why 
these transfers were unsuitable. 
If Mr J has any comments or evidence in relation  to these  transfers,  and why they were unsuitable, he 
can provide  them in response to my provisional decision.  
Lord Clarke Limited also advised  Mr J to pay back  into his pension some of his pension payments 
(recycling). The advice was outlined in Lord Clarke Limiteds 19 September 2013 letter to Mr and 
Mrs J. As with the issue with the two transfers mentioned above, its not clear to me whether Mr J is 
complaining about this or not. He has said that he expects two personal  pension contributions  totalling 
£588.70 to be considered  in any compensation payment. I can see a regular  monthly premium of 
£367.94 was set up to be paid into the SIPP  from November 2013.  Two months of premiums would  
equate to £588.70 of payments from Mr J once tax relief is taken into account. So it looks like Mr J 
only followed  Lord Clarke  Limiteds advice for two months. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr J has 
lost out financially because of these two contributions. But Im unsure  what   if any  Mr Js specific 
concerns are in relation to these contributions.  As I said before,  Mr J is welcome to respond to my 
provisional decision  with any comments and evidence.    
Ref: DRN952526815proposed compensation
In relation to the DFM, in assessing fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr J in the position  he would  
have been in  as far as possible  had he not been advised to use the DFM. I take the view that Mr J 
would, most likely, have chosen to invest in one, or more, of Provider As funds  instead of using the 
DFM. But its not possible  to say precisely  what Mr J would have done.  Nevertheless, Im satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mr Js circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
To compensate Mr J fairly Lord Clarke Limited should:
 Compare the performance  of Mr Js DFM  investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. 
If the fair value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Lord Clarke Limited should  also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded.
If redress is due, then this should be paid to Mr Js pension plan. The payment  should allow 
for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a deduction  of 15%. The payment 
would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free 
and the rest would have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying  status in retirement  
presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Mr Js SIPP 
funds  
invested  with 
the DFMstill existsFTSE  UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Indexdate of
investmentdate of
my final 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date of 
final decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance of 
decision)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN952526816Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler,  Ill accept  if Lord 
Clarke Limited totals  all those payments  and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
If the DFM arrangement has already been  ended,  the parties should  inform  me so it can be factored 
into the approach  to compensation, if due, in my final decision. 
why is this remedy suitable? 
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr J wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private  Investors Income total return index (prior  to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Js 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Im satisfied Mr Js attitude  to risk was medium. And in its 15 February  2013 letter to Mr J, the DFM 
said it would manage his investments in line with a medium risk rating. So there doesnt appear to be 
any reason  why Mr J would  have lost out because the DFM has been running his investments in a 
way that was too risky or too conservative for him. 
The DFM arrangement  only exists because  of Lord Clarke Limiteds  advice. I dont think it would  be a 
particularly quick process for Mr J to end the DFM arrangement and move his assets to something 
simpler and cheaper. At the very least, he might want to research Provider As funds with the help of a 
financial adviser.  With this in mind, I think it only fair for Lord Clarke Limited to pay at least something in 
recognition of this. Quantifying this isnt an exact science. However, if I use Lord Clarke Limiteds  tariff as 
a proxy, and assuming 3 hours of advice  is required, then Lord Clarke Limited should  pay Mr J £600 
compensation. It should also pay for the trouble and upset that unwinding the DFM arrangement will 
cause. I think £150 is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances,  bringing compensation for this aspect of 
the complaint up to £750.  
The £750 should be paid direct to Mr J rather than into his pension  but should only be paid if the 
calculations referred to above show there has been  a financial loss. If the calculations show 
Mr J has made a gain from the DFM,  then Mr J has been put in a better position than he otherwise should  
have been in, so I dont think it would  be fair to pay compensation on top of this.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to partially 
uphold this complaint. 
If I do partially uphold this complaint, I will be asking Lord Clarke  Limited to pay compensation in line with the 
approach outlined above.
Ref: DRN9525268