K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Coventry Building  Society (CBS) registered a marker about him at 
CIFAS the national fraud database.
background
Mr S says he has discovered that CBS had added the marker in December 2014 when it 
closed his accounts. He says that it shouldnt have done so, hadnt told him about it at the 
time and asked that it be removed.
CBS said that it received  information that was of concern in December 2014 and a decision 
was made  to close the accounts held by Mr S. It said that it was obliged to report fraudulent  
activity on accounts.  And that it was aware  that he had been arrested for the same 
offence(s) and he had later pleaded  guilty in Court.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He referred to a specific 
payment Mr S had received that had been  reported as fraudulent and the wider context that 
Mr S had disclosed to him about  a criminal investigation by police and then his prosecution. 
He said that CBS was entitled to close his accounts as it did here with 30 days notice. It 
hadnt made any mistake  in applying the marker  and wasnt required to tell Mr S about it.
Mr S didnt agree and made a number of points. He explained the circumstances of his 
related conviction  in 2017. And said that this was because he had mis-used someone elses 
money in 2014  and not paid it back as he said he would. This didnt affect CBS and hed 
paid the price for this and things were  resolved in Court in February 2017.  He said hed fully 
complied with a police investigation  and had provided his banking information. It wasnt fair 
though that he be punished with a CIFAS marker  for the six year period to December 2020. 
He remained unhappy that CBS hadnt  contacted him about  the specifics at the time and told 
him about the marker. So overall  he didnt feel CBS had treated him fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBS says that it applied the CIFAS  marker because of information it had received in 2014.  
So Ive looked  at whether  CBS was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence  it had, 
and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS  guidance  says the business must have carried out 
checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially 
means that CBS needs to have enough information  to make a formal  report to the police. 
And that any filing should be for cases where  there  are reasonable grounds to believe fraud 
or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere  suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr S account of events and the evidence CBS has provided, Im satisfied 
that CBS had sufficient  evidence  for the CIFAS  marker to be recorded.  
I appreciate that Mr S says that any actual findings by a Court didnt come until 2017. And 
Mr S thinks  that should be the end of the matter and that CBS werent affected. I can see 
why he says that but frankly I dont agree with him. I think his subsequent  Court matters do 
nothing but support concerns about  his financial activities. I havent  seen anything which 
obliged CBS to have disclosed information  in 2014 in all the circumstances. And its process 
Ref: DRN99480752of adding a marker  to CIFAS isnt dependent  on any Court outcomes but in line with industry 
practice. That marker may affect  Mr S ability to access financial services with other 
businesses but its not added as a punishment  its a flag about what  happened which  stays  
on the database for six years.
Im not persuaded that CBS has made  a mistake or acted  unfairly  so I know  Im going to 
disappoint Mr S when I say that I wont be asking it to remove  this CIFAS marker.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9948075