K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains British  Gas Services  Limited  hasnt carried out annual services when it 
should have done and has provided poor customer service.
background
Mr H had a new boiler installed in late 2013  and at the same  time took out a five year 
HomeCare policy. He complained to British  Gas several times about  the policy, including 
complaining about his annual services been  delayed  and missed as well as poor service.
British Gas investigated Mr Hs complaints and offered compensation. Mr H was unhappy 
that he kept on having problems with British Gas and so complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that there were some  issues 
that we couldnt look into  because  hed complained more than six months after British  Gas 
had issued a Final Response or because British Gas hadnt  had an opportunity  to look into 
the issues as they were  new complaints.  Our investigator did, however, think that the 
compensation British  Gas had offered for the issues we could look at wasnt enough given  
the impact on Mr H. So they recommended that British Gas pay Mr H an additional £150. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H took out a five year HomeCare policy in late 2013 for which  he paid just over £600. 
British Gas agreed to service his boiler on an annual  basis  under that policy  and the policy  
also covered his boiler during that period. Both sides now agree that Mr Hs policy  was an 
insurance product   not all British Gas policies  are  so we can look into complaints about  it.
I can see that Mr H is frustrated with British Gas  hes been  let down on a number of 
occasions meaning he hasnt always had the annual checks  when they were originally 
scheduled. Hes also had several different examples of poor customer service, ranging from 
receiving an email that was meant for another customer, to not getting a call from the 
engineer to say that they were running  late because the engineer had been given an out of 
date contact number.  Mr H has already complained about a number of these issues, and 
British Gas has offered  him compensation and sent out cheques that he hasnt paid in. Mr H 
accepts that we cant look into those issues now  but British Gas has confirmed that it will 
pay the compensation it has previously offered issuing  fresh  cheques  and cancelling  the old 
ones that Mr H hasnt  paid in yet. Mr H also accepts that if he wanted us to look at the new 
issues hes raised British  Gas needs to have an opportunity to consider  them  first. That 
means the only issue Im looking  at are the problems Mr H has had with the annual service  
that was re-arranged for January 2018 which was rescheduled a number of times and didnt 
take place until April 2018. I will, however, take the previous problems Mr H has had with 
British Gas into account as I accept  that these are likely to have made the re-arranging  and 
rescheduling of the January 2018  appointment more frustrating for Mr H than it might  
otherwise have been.
Our investigator recommended British Gas pay Mr H an additional £150 in compensation for 
the frustration that the re-arranging and rescheduling of the January  2018 caused. Having 
reviewed the file, I consider that this fairly  reflects the impact the additional  problems had on 
Ref: DRN90876332Mr H. Im, therefore,  going to require  British Gas to pay Mr H £150  in compensation. In 
addition, Im going to require  British  Gas to issue fresh cheques paying  Mr H the 
compensation it has previously offered to the extent that Mr H hasnt paid those  cheques  in. 
Im doing  so on the basis that British Gas will cancel the other cheques it has previously sent 
Mr H. 
my final decision
My Final  Decision is that I require  British Gas Services Limited to pay Mr H £150 in 
compensation. In addition, I require British Gas Services Limited to issue fresh cheques 
paying Mr H the compensation  it has previously offered to the extent that Mr H hasnt 
already paid those  cheques  in.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9087633