K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complaint  is about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) has taken responsibility for the sale,  so Ill 
refer to FICL  throughout  this decision.
background
The PPI was sold to Mrs W over the phone in 2001.  It covered  the repayments  on a store 
card which shed taken  out a little over a year earlier.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs W doesnt seem to have a particularly good  memory of this sale. And FICL hasnt been 
able to provide  that much  information  about it either. But this isnt that surprising given  how 
long ago it took place. So Ive needed to consider what I think is most likely to have 
happened on the limited information available to me.
From what  I know about similar telephone sales at around this time, the representative 
Mrs W spoke  to should have been told to make  clear to her that the PPI policy  was optional 
and to have obtained her agreement to taking it before adding it to her store account. And 
Ive no particular reason  for thinking  that this didnt happen in this case. In saying this, Ive 
also taken account  of the fact that Mrs W had already been using her card for over a year 
before the PPI was added to it. So I think she would have realised that the cover was 
optional and she didnt  need to agree to it if she didnt want  to.
So I think its likely that Mrs W actively agreed to take out the PPI, knowing that it was 
optional.
I dont think FICL recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt need to ensure that it was 
suitable for her. But it still needed  to give her enough information  about the policy  for her to 
decide if she wanted to take it. From what Ive seen,  I think that FICL could have provided 
better information to Mrs W than it did. But I dont think that better  information  would  have 
changed her mind about buying it. I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN98991842Mrs W says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer  and also had some 
savings she could  have used to make her card repayments if she couldnt work.  But this 
policy would have  paid out in addition to any other means  she might have had available  
to her at the time. And it could  have paid out for longer than these other means  would 
have lasted. So I still think she would  have found  the protection  the policy gave her 
useful if things had gone wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs W. And as the premium was 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Mrs W has lost out by anything that FICL may have done  wrong  when it 
sold her this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9899184