K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that hes been  treated unfairly by his insurance broker Automobile 
Association Insurance Services Limited (the AA).  In particular, he is concerned that the AA 
hasnt rewarded his loyalty to it as a customer.  
background
Mr L explains that he likes the AA and wants to give it his custom. He has a number of 
policies with it, including a buildings and contents  policy, car insurance  policy  and 
breakdown cover. Hed previously arranged travel insurance through the AA too, although 
hes not now pursuing a complaint about  that policy. 
In 2017 Mr L was concerned that the price of his combined policies increased  by around 
35% from £500 to £650 at their respective renewal  dates. He said thered been no change in 
risk except his own age and his car being another year older. He complained to the AA 
about this for a number of reasons, but in brief summary he thought  it was relying  on 
customer inertia  in putting up the prices, in the hope that hed not call up to ask for 
reductions and/or go elsewhere. He thought this was contrary to the way the AA marketed its 
service in its literature. 
Also, Mr L complained  that the AA had a fragmented  approach  in that he couldnt speak to 
one person about all his policies, even though he could  see them all on its online system.  
Rather he had to deal with different  people  about  each policy, and in turn it didnt apply  any 
consistent customer discount to reward his loyalty.
To resolve  his complaint  he wanted the AA to treat him as a single customer with multiple 
policies, and for it to offer its best terms where  his claims history and circumstances justify 
them. He made  some  additional points  to support his complaint.  The AA issued a final 
response letter and Mr L came to us.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ls complaint. In doing so the AA gave us some more  
information about the points Mr L had raised with us. 
Our adjudicator thought that the AA had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly.  She said Mr L had 
to deal with different departments within the AA at renewal because  the policies had different 
renewal dates. In turn, this meant the AA couldnt apply a blanket  discount to the policies 
renewal premiums. The policies were AA branded, but were provided by different insurers.  
And we couldnt  tell the AA how to structure  its prices or any customer  loyalty discounts.  
Our adjudicator gave  Mr L details of our approach  in pricing complaints. She also explained 
that the industry regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - was looking into 
insurance pricing, including the issue of different pricing for new and existing customers. So 
the issue of pricing  was coming under greater scrutiny.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with the adjudicators view, and so she said shed refer the complaint to 
an ombudsman. But before that happened  there  was an exchange of correspondence  
between Mr L, our adjudicator and the AA. The AA said that it had heavily discounted all 
Mr Ls policies when  hed contacted it, but the policies didnt have  the same  renewal  date 
and its systems werent set up to offer an automatic discount across  its policy  range. It said 
its call handlers dealt  with different types  of policies  so it couldnt offer him a single point of 
contact.
Ref: DRN97287272Mr L didnt think the AAs responses  had resolved the issues hed raised. And he pointed out 
that his latest  car insurance  renewal  premium had increased again by around £100  (a 50% 
increase on the previous years renewal).  So the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
My role is to consider Mr Ls individual and specific complaint about the AA. Ill consider 
whether its treated Mr L fairly, and in doing so I will focus on what  I consider are the central 
issues in this dispute. 
Mr L can view all the policies the AA has arranged for him in one place on its website.  So 
I can see his point  that hed expect to have one point of contact for each policy.  And he says 
that the AA could easily arrange to call him to arrange a customer loyalty  discount  each  time 
his renewal comes up  even if the policies are with separate insurers with separate  renewal 
dates. 
But I cant see that the AA has agreed to offer that type of individual service  for Mr L. And its 
not my role to tell it to provide a different level of customer service. 
The AA is required to send Mr L a renewal for each policy he holds  with it, giving him enough 
information to make an informed decision about  whether or not to renew his policy through  
the AA. Its sent us copies of those renewal  letters for his various policies. In line with a 
change in the FCAs rules  for insurers the more  recent letters have correctly included  the 
previous years renewal  premium to allow him to see at a glance  the level of increase in 
premium. 
As I understand it, Mr L has been calling the AA on receipt of the renewal letters asking it to 
consider offering him a discount, based on his customer loyalty. It has agreed to do so, and 
says its heavily discounted his policies following his calls. I think  Mr Ls point is that the AA 
should be proactive,  and offer him discounts across the policy  range without waiting for him 
to call (or not to call). He thinks  its failure  to do so amounts to predatory pricing. And hed 
like to be able to talk to one person at the AA, rather than have to call different numbers for 
different products. 
I see Mr Ls point, but I dont think the AA is required to offer the level of service  that hed 
like. Mr L has referred  us to the AAs marketing literature hes received. Ive considered all 
the evidence but I dont  think  the AA has misled  Mr L to believe that he would receive  the 
standard of service  he would like and that he thinks the AA should  provide to him. 
For the car and home insurance  the underwriter is responsible for setting the premium. The 
AA has agreed to reduce its own profit element by reducing the premiums on Mr Ls 
request. I dont think theres any basis for me to make an award  against  the AA. And in any 
event, I appreciate that hes not looking for financial compensation but rather  a better level of 
service. But thats not something that I can require  the AA to offer as Ive explained.  
Ref: DRN97287273Ive not looked at the 2018  premium increase Mr L has told us about, as weve not 
investigated that. As I understand  it, Mr L was telling us about  that to illustrate  his point 
about his premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9728727