K821x#15complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between February 
and April 2018. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
The complaint was reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator upheld Mr Hs 
complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have  been  given because  proportionate checks 
would have shown  Mr H was struggling to manage  his money. Mr Lender disagreed and it 
explained as it had been concerned about Mr H borrowing again so close to paying  off loan 
3, it asked additional questions during the application process. And it monitored  Mr Hs 
active accounts on his credit report and this number  didnt  change between loans 3 and 4. 
Mr Lender also said Mr H repaid loan 4 without any delays or late payments. 
A second review  of the complaint then took place and the adjudicator doing the review 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because  Mr H hadnt provided any evidence to 
show what his financial situation  was like at the time. Additionally,  he had told Mr Lender he 
wasnt in any kind of financial  difficulty. 
Mr H disagreed. As the complaint  couldnt  be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a 
final decision. I issued  my provisional  decision  in February 2020 (a copy of which is attached  
to the end of this decision) and explained  why I was thinking of upholding the complaint. But 
I asked for any further comments or information  to be sent to me before I made my final 
decision. 
Mr Lender responded  to say it had nothing further  to add and we havent received a 
response from Mr H. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As no one had anything further for me to consider, my decision remains  the same as I 
outlined in my provisional decision; Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to doLoan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Max Repayment
1 14/02/2018 01/03/2018 6 £300.00 £153.20
2 12/03/2018 14/03/2018 6 £750.00 £285.00
3 03/04/2018 13/04/2018 6 £500.00 £185.93
4 13/04/2018 08/01/2019 12 £1,000.00 £211.05
Ref: DRN93845972refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93845973my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  consider  several different things,  such as how much 
was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. In the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done  so, Im thinking  of partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The first adjudicator thought Mr Lender had carried  out proportionate  checks for loans 1 to 3. 
Mr H didnt respond to the view. As there appears to no longer be a dispute about these  loans, I wont 
be making any findings on them.  
Mr Lender says it carried out checks  including  asking further questions  of Mr Hs financial situation - 
before it lent loan 4 to Mr H and the results  of these checks didnt raise any concerns.  But as this was 
Mr Hs fourth loan in two months, I think Mr Lender should have been looking to build a clearer picture  
about Mr Hs finances before  lending  him this loan. 
Ref: DRN93845974Had Mr Lender  carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have found that Mr 
H was borrowing from other short-term lenders. The repayments for these loans  were increasing his 
monthly outgoings. In March 2017 alone Mr H paid around £1,800 to other short-term lenders and this 
was before his repayment for his loan with 
Mr Lender was paid. Mr H told Mr Lender that his monthly incomings  were £3,500 and after his 
outgoings, he had a disposable income  of around £1,400. But looking at his bank  statements, I dont 
think this was an accurate  reflection of Mr Hs incomings  and outgoings. 
Mr H was also taking out another loan on the same day hed repaid loan 3 early. I have noted Mr 
Lenders comments around this and that it did have some concerns. The second adjudicator thought  
the answers Mr H gave  to the extra  questions Mr Lender asked showed that loan 4 wasnt unsuitable 
for him. But I disagree.  As Ive said above, although Mr Lender did some further  checks, I dont  think  
these checks went far enough given the fact Mr H was borrowing double  the amount  of the previous 
loan and was extending  his indebtedness from six monthly instalments  to 12. 
Mr Lender has said it was aware Mr H had active accounts on his credit file, but it said the number  he 
had remained the same between loan 3 and 4. In my view the fact Mr Lender knew Mr H had a 
number of active  accounts  already on his credit report ought to have prompted  it to do a more  
thorough review. 
Overall, this behaviour  was most likely  an indication Mr H was in a cycle of debt and he was further  
borrowing to repay borrowing. And whilst Mr H might not have fallen into arrears  with his loans from 
Mr Lender, it doesnt necessarily follow  that repaying the loans wasnt proving  problematic. 
Ref: DRN9384597