K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1999 which started at the same time as their mortgage.  
They applied for the mortgage through an intermediary, but the PPI policy was subsequently 
purchased on the telephone.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £327.39 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £17.35  a 
month. The policy covered both Mr and Mrs S and the benefit was split equally between 
them. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a cleaner.  He told us he was entitled  to six months full 
sick pay, plus redundancy pay and death in service  through his employer. Mr S has said he 
was in good health at the time of the sale although he has advised of other  medical 
conditions he developed many years later. 
Mrs S told us she was employed as night fill staff member at the time of sale but her 
mortgage application shows she was a print finisher. As that information is from the time of 
sale, I think thats more  likely  to be right. Mrs S was not entitled to any sick pay and didnt 
have any other means of repaying their mortgage should she be unable  to work.  Mrs S has 
said she was in good health  at the time of the sale but again has advised of medical 
conditions she developed later. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN91482702The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN91482703The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
Ref: DRN91482704suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
As this policy was sold so long ago, not all the documents from the time of sale are still 
available. I dont think thats unreasonable, but it does mean  Ive got limited  information 
about the sale  so Ive had to decide what I think is more  likely based on the available 
evidence. 
Ive seen a copy  of their mortgage application form from September  1999.  This appears to 
have been completed by an intermediary  business.  The form had a section for PPI  but this 
was left blank.  So it seems Mr and Mrs S didnt  either accept or decline  PPI at this time. But 
the PPI doesnt  appear to have been a mandatory  part of this mortgage application. 
Ive seen a welcome  letter  sent around a month  later in October  1999  which  says theyd 
agreed to take out PPI during a telephone call. This included a record of their application  
made on the telephone detailing their answers  to a range  of questions from eligibility to 
health conditions.  It also says the PPI would start on completion of their mortgage. Had they 
not agreed to take PPI, I wouldve expected them to have questioned this on receipt of this 
letter. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
Bos says it advised  Mr and Mrs S to take out the PPI but Mr and Mrs S dont believe any 
advice was given.  
Looking at what happened when BOS sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, Im persuaded that it 
provided advice.  I say this because I can see they had a separate  telephone call specifically 
for insurance  and BOS  sought detailed information  about their circumstances which is 
recorded in their application statement. So I think its more likely that this was done so BOS 
could make a recommendation. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the telephone call, the documentary  evidence  
suggests that BOS  took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and Mrs 
Ss financial circumstances as part of the mortgage  application. But although an application 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs S had a need for the 
Ref: DRN91482705policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any health issues   I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, BOS didnt ask if they 
had employee  benefits  that they couldve used to make their repayments.   
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the redundancy 
benefits and sick pay benefits Mr S says he would  have been  entitled to. Mrs S didnt 
have any other  means of making her repayments. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ss employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Although Mr and Mrs S have advised of 
several medical conditions they have developed since taking out the policy, these 
were not present at the time of sale. And in any event, despite what our adjudicator  
said, this policy didnt  exclude claims caused by pre-existing medical conditions.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
occupation condition,  the requirement that Mr and Mrs S be disabled or unemployed 
for 30 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs S be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN91482706Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I can see the document  they 
were sent following their telephone call had a brief explanation of what the PPI did and set 
out the approximate cost and benefit  - I think the document likely reflect the discussion that 
took place when they agreed to take the PPI. I also think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the 
policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded BOS  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BOS gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ss. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN91482707Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised  them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BOS told them the exact premium at the point Mr 
and Mrs S applied for the policy. Having said that, the approximate  costs they were given 
before the policy started were not largely different to what they eventually  did pay. And they 
paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly  at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with BOS  at the 
time or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the telephone  in which they agreed to the policy.
Im mindful that BOS might not have made  clear  the exact benefit of the policy  the 
premium changed  as Ive said above  likely  a result of a change  in their mortgage  payment 
prior to completion. But given the quotation  they received set out the benefit  as the 
mortgage monthly payment, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss expectations about what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim were significantly different to what  the policy  actually 
did.
Ref: DRN91482708Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to do their own job or any similar  job. It must also have stopped them  from 
doing any paid work which their experience,  education or training reasonably 
qualifies them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs S were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 they were in permanent  employment. And as Ive explained above, claims caused pre-
existing medical conditions werent excluded under this policy.  So, I still think  they had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
S might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do their job or any similar job but also unable to do any job which  in the insurers view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested in taking out 
the cover.
BOS may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 24 months was a longer period than Mr S would have received full sick pay for. And 
Mrs S didnt have any sick pay provided by her employer and their statutory redundancy 
entitlement was also likely to be significantly less than 24 months income. 
Ref: DRN91482709In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve any sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
Ref: DRN914827010circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think BOS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 November  2020.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9148270