K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2005. Mr and Mrs K say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy in 2005  to help protect their mortgage repayments 
against accident and sickness. They paid a monthly  amount for the PPI following a three 
month free period.  
The benefit  was split between them with Mr K being insured for 70% and Mrs K having the 
benefit of the remaining 30%. If either  of them had made a successful claim,  the policy would 
have paid out the relevant  proportion of the benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs K couldnt remember how the policy was sold to them  and have said that they 
werent   aware   the   cover    was   on   their   mortgage. But I think  Santander made  them 
aware that the policy was optional and that they agreed to take it out  even if they 
dont recall this now.
Santanders records indicate Mr and Mrs K took out the PPI during a telephone 
conversation  so I think  its most likely the PPI was sold during a telephone call. But 
it hasnt got a recording of that conversation. This isnt surprising given  that the call took 
place over 13 years ago. As there isnt a recording, I dont know  what  was said, so in 
situations like this I need to consider what I think is most likely to have  happened.
Based on what we know about  how Santander sold similar policies at the same  time 
as Mr and Mrs Ks policy was sold, it seems likely  that the script the adviser would have 
been following  during the call wouldve prompted  them to explain the policy was 
optional. And it would have asked Mr and Mrs K if they wanted the cover  before it was 
arranged. This policy  was taken out some years after Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage had started  
 so I think they would have  known  this policy was not a condition of their lending.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs K 
after the policy was arranged. It says that a direct debit had been set up to pay for the 
policy, which appears  to  have  been   separate  from  any  payment  for  the  mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs K would have had to sign a separate direct debit mandate  in order for this 
payment to have been set up. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs K 
queried these payments  leaving their account at the time.
Ref: DRN91137552Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs K so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time I think  it was. I say 
this because they were  both eligible  for the policy and dont seem to have been affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, such as unusual  working arrangements.
Mrs K has told us that she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of taking out 
the policy. As the policy had some limitations  around the cover available  for pre-existing 
conditions, Mrs K may have found  it more difficult to claim as a result  of this condition. Ive 
thought about this but, based on what Mrs K has told us about  the condition,  this didnt 
impact on her daily life and has only been  something  which she has received treatment for in 
more recent  years. So I dont think Mrs K would have expected to take time off work  (for 
longer than the 28 days required on the policy) and need to make a claim as a result.
Mr and Mrs K have  both told us they would have received at least  six months full pay from 
their employers if they were unable  to work  due to accident or sickness. But the PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months, which would  be in addition  to and potentially for longer 
than any sick pay they would receive.  Whilst  Ive noted they also had some savings, by 
having this policy it would  enable them to protect their savings for another purpose or use 
them to cover other essential living  expenses.  So I still think  this policy  could have provided 
them with a useful  benefit.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K has said - including what  theyve  said about not 
understanding why the benefit was split between them on a basis of 70/30  when  they were  
both working. Due to the time that has passed, information about the sale is limited. But it 
was common place  for the benefit under a PPI policy  to be split based on the earnings of 
each individual   as it was usually the higher wage earner that contributed  more  to the 
mortgage repayments. Even if that wasnt the case for Mr and Mrs K, it doesnt appear  that 
they ever needed  to make a claim and the policy is now no longer in force  so they havent 
lost out as a result of the way this benefit  was split. So this point doesnt change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN91137553Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs K any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9113755