K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Virgin Money plc declined her claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, and complains about some  customer service issues.
background
In October  2018 Ms E booked a car through  a car hire company, CarFlexi. She paid CarFlexi  
£75.52 from her PayPal  account, and paid a third party, Enterprise  which  was to actually 
provide the car  £260.15 with her Virgin Money credit card. But when  she tried to collect  the 
car from Enterprise, it was not available. Her payments were refunded, and another car was 
booked  provided by another third party, Hertz   for which she was charged £394.52 by 
Hertz, and £59.22 by CarFlexi. She made both of those payments on the same credit  card.  
She says CarFlexi promised her a refund of the difference between  the prices of the cars, 
and that its failure  to honour that promise was a breach of contract. So she raised a claim 
with Virgin  Money under  section 75.
At the same time, Ms E also complained that Virgin Moneys secure messaging system  
timed her out while she was still typing  her message. She received an acknowledgement of 
her complaint three  days  later, but eight days after that she complained that she hadnt 
heard anything since. She complained  about  poor customer service she received on a 
phone call she made about a credit  balance on her credit card account. She later 
complained that she did not receive any acknowledgement of that complaint. She eventually 
received a letter from Virgin Money saying that its disputes team had asked  her to get in 
touch but she had not replied, even  though  in fact she had replied the same day. She 
complained about that, and about  the resulting delay.
Virgin Money said that section 75 did not apply to Ms Es contract with CarFlexi,  because her 
payments had not been made to the car hire party, but directly to Enterprise and Hertz. It 
recognised that there was an issue with its secure  messaging system, but did not regard this 
as an error.  It did not address the other  customer service issues.
Ms E complained to our Service. Our investigator did not uphold  her complaint. He agreed 
that section 75 did not apply, but he also said that CarFlexis  terms and conditions  made  it 
clear that the price  of hiring a car may increase if the original car is unavailable and another  
booking has to be made. So he didnt think a breach of contract  had been  proved. He 
agreed that Virgin Money could have handled her section 75 claim better, and that there had 
been a delay, but he said this had not affected  the outcome  of her complaint. He noted  that 
Virgin Money was trying  to address the limitations of its messaging system.  He said the 
credit balance had been on Ms Es statements, it had since been credited to her bank 
account, and he did not think Virgin Money  needed  to do more  about that.
Ms E did not accept  that opinion.  She said the breach of contract  was the failure to provide 
her with the car she had originally booked. She said she had not received an acceptable 
level of service. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
Ref: DRN97028902my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the section 75 claim
Section 75 is a law which,  where  it applies,  makes the provider of credit (in this case, Virgin  
Money) jointly liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier where  the 
suppliers services are paid for (in whole  or in part) with the credit provided. But it does not apply 
to a claim so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached  a 
cash price not exceeding  £100. So it does not apply to the payment of £59.22 to CarFlexi.
Ms E can also only have a valid claim under section 75 if her payments were  made under a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and if the alleged breach of contract or misrepresent-
ation was made by the party who was the supplier. Ms E was the debtor,  Virgin  Money was 
the creditor, and in the Consumer Credit Act the supplier means the party  to a transaction  
(with the debtor) which is financed  by the creditor.1 That is to say, the supplier  is the person 
who receives the credit card payment.
The payment of £59.22 was made to CarFlexi. Ms E alleges that CarFlexi breached its 
contract with her, and so this payment  would  have come within section 75, if it had been  
more than £100. But the rest of the payments were made to the two car rental providers,  
Enterprise and Hertz, and so they were the suppliers (in relation to those payments).  
CarFlexi was not the supplier, and so Virgin Money  is not liable under section 75 for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  it may have made.
However, Virgin Money would be liable for any breach of contract by Enterprise,  if Ms E had 
a contract with them. The payment to Enterprise has already been refunded.  But Virgin 
Moneys liability for a breach of contract (if there  was one) isnt limited to the amount of the 
payment. It may be liable for any consequential  loss arising from the breach   such  as the 
difference between  the cost of the first car and the cost of the second.
As well as the £260.15 Ms E paid Enterprise with her credit card, she also paid CarFlexi a 
deposit of £75.52 (via PayPal), which was also refunded. So the total paid for the first car, 
and refunded, was £335.67. She paid a total of £453.74 for the second  car, so the 
difference is £118.07.
At this stage, it is not clear to me whether Ms E actually had a separate  contract  with 
Enterprise, or if she only had a contract with CarFlexi. She may well have had a separate  
contract, but I dont think I can just assume  she did, just because she made a payment to 
Enterprise. That payment  doesnt necessarily prove she had a contract with Enterprise; it 
might just have been required by her contract  with CarFlexi. So I invite Ms E to provide any 
paperwork she has which might prove that she had an agreement  directly with Enterprise.
1 This is the combined effect of sections 75(1) and 12(c).
Ref: DRN97028903customer service  issues
Although I appreciate the difficulty of using  the secure messaging system,  I dont  think  it is 
serious enough to warrant  compensation.
Ms E received acknowledgement of her complaint. I dont think  Virgin  Money needed to 
contact her again within the next eight days. Regulations allow  it eight weeks to consider a 
complaint.
I dont think Virgin Money  did anything wrong  with the credit  balance. But it has not disputed 
Ms Es description of the phone call she made about  the credit balance,  on 22 January. The 
call handler did not speak English well and did not seem to understand her, and she had to 
keep repeating herself. She says the call wasted a lot of time, and as she was calling from 
abroad this caused  her unnecessary expense. I agree  that that is poor service.
Four days later, she received an email from Virgin Money asking her to get in touch about 
her section 75 claim. She replied to the email 19 minutes later. Virgin  sent another  email  on 
31 January, asking her questions, and she answered the questions 15 minutes  later. Ive 
seen all of these emails. But both of Ms Es emails  appear to have been missed  by Virgin 
Moneys disputes team. On 5 March Virgin Money sent her its final response  letter,  in which  
it said the disputes team had received no response from her. I agree that this did not affect  
the outcome of her section 75 claim, but it did waste her time and must have been  irritating.
For both of those errors, I think £50 is fair compensation.
my provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties   I intend  to order Virgin Money plc to pay Ms E 
£50 for her inconvenience, and  depending on the evidence  I may order it to pay her 
another £118.07 for her section 75 claim.
responses to my provisional  findings
Neither party accepted my provisional decision. Ms E said that £50 was insultingly low 
compensation for the inconvenience Virgin Money  had caused  her. She made various  
arguments about why section 75 should  apply to her claim.
Virgin Money agreed to pay £50 for customer service issues, but it maintained that section 
75 did not apply.  It said there was no evidence that Ms E had had a contract with Enterprise.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I regret that Ms E is disappointed with the sum of £50 for the customer service  issues,  but 
I think that amount  is in line with what our Service would typically  award for that sort of thing.
Ref: DRN97028904Ms E has not provided us with evidence that she had a contract with Enterprise. But I have 
looked at CarFlexis terms and conditions, which say (under the heading  Important 
Information) that CarFlexi  will find a car rental deal from one of our wide range of 
providers. The terms go on to say:
Any contract entered  into at the local destination is exclusively between yourself  
and the car rental  provider and under no instance is CarFlexi a party  to this contract. 
 Your signature on any rental contract agreement is definite proof to the 
acceptance of the services and terms imposed by the rental company  and to the 
respective laws of the country  in which  the rental will take place.2
Then in the next section, entitled  Liability, it says:
CarFlexi accepts  no liability for the refusal by the car rental  company  to provide the 
vehicle in the event of any problems having arisen with regards to the terms of your 
contract.
Further down, under Force Majeure,  it says:
No responsibility or liability can be taken  by CarFlexi  if the terms and conditions  of 
the rental provider as shown on [our] search engine differ from those at the time of 
pick up.
All of those paragraphs  clearly envisage that there  will be a separate contract  between  the 
customer and the car rental provider from whom the car is to be collected. So on the balance  
of probabilities, I think that it is more likely than not that Ms E did have  a contract with 
Enterprise, separate from her contract  with CarFlexi, even though I have  not seen a copy  of 
it, and even if she was not given a copy of it.
I think that Enterprises  failure to provide the car amounts  to a breach of that contract, 
causing Ms E a consequential loss of £118.07,  and that  having  regard to section 75  it is 
fair and reasonable to require Virgin Money  to pay that sum to her.
(It follows  that I do not need to address Ms Es arguments about  CarFlexi.)
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Virgin Money plc to pay Ms E £168.07.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
2 https://www.carflexi.com/en-us/information/terms
Ref: DRN9702890