K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that shes had poor service from Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) following 
a claim,  and isnt satisfied  with IPAs offer of compensation.
background 
Following a trip abroad, Ms S missed  her return flight to the UK because a road accident  
delayed her arrival at the airport. She says she had to pay £200 for a new flight. She made  a 
claim on her travel  insurance policy underwritten by IPA. 
Ms S called  IPAs agents on 21 December 2018.  She says she was initially told that her 
claim would be met and claims forms would be sent out. When she didnt receive them,  she 
says she called for an update, and was told her claim was being declined.  A number of 
reasons for this were given at various times.
Ms S was told on 4 January 2019 that claims for missed departure  werent  covered  
with the Bronze  level of cover that shed purchased. It was only covered if cover 
was taken out at Silver  level or above.
 On 16 January she was asked  for evidence of the accident  that delayed  her arrival 
at the airport.
 On 25 January, she was told that as her claim  was for £100,  and the policy had an 
excess of £100, there  was nothing due to her under the policy.  Ms S says claim was 
actually for £200.
 On 31 January she was again told that she wasnt covered for missed departure.
In addition to the above,  Ms S says that calls and emails  werent  returned,  she was placed  on 
hold for extended  periods, and generally she has been inconvenience  by being asked to 
provide information  that wasnt going to assist in settling her claim as she wasnt  covered for 
missed departure under the level of policy she had. She feels IPA gave her false expectations.  
Ms S complained to IPA, who partially  upheld her complaint  and gave her £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  Ms S wasnt satisfied with this level of 
compensation so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that £50 compensation wasnt enough and suggested that £100  
would be fairer to Ms S. IPA accepted our investigators recommendation and has agreed to 
pay her another  £50, but Ms S believes this still isnt enough  to compensate  her for the poor 
service shed received  from IPA  and the inconvenience shed been  put to. As Ms S doesnt 
consider that £100 is sufficient compensation, her complaint  has been referred to me to make 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Ms Ss complaint 
as to the level of compensation,  and Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at Ms Ss policy and schedule and have verified that Ms S isnt covered for 
missed departures.
Ref: DRN98473202I sympathise with the frustration that Ms S must have experienced when she missed  her 
flight, and Im sure this wouldve  been  a stressful experience for her. I can also sympathise 
with her frustration in not receiving the level of service  from IPAs agents that she should  
have received. But it shouldve been clear to her from her policy  schedule that she had 
purchased Bronze level cover, and clear from the Bronze level policy  document that this 
didnt include any cover for missed departures.
Unfortunately she was initially misadvised by IPAs  agents, but this was corrected on 4 
January 2019.  And that shouldve been  the end of the matter,  and the further 
communications form IPAs agents I think would have only confused  the matter.  
Ms S hasnt been  financially  prejudiced  by IPAs poor service,  but it has inconvenienced her 
in that she was asked to provide information  that was never  going  to assist her claim.
In these circumstances I think that compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable. Our 
investigator has already  explained to Ms S that the levels of compensation that this service  
awards are quite modest as we do not aim to punish  businesses,  but to provide a level of 
recompense to a customer  who has experienced distress or inconvenience  as a result  of 
poor service. If IPA hadnt  offered compensation, this figure is the sort of figure that this 
service would award in similar circumstances. So Im not going to ask IPA to increase it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not going to uphold Ms Ss complaint about the level of 
compensation on the basis that Inter Partner  Assistance SA has already agreed to pay her a 
further £50 so as to bring her total compensation to £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.  
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman   
Ref: DRN9847320