K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complained O&M Pension  Advice  didnt  process the transfer  of his occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  to a personal  pension in a timely  manner.
O&M Pension Advice is a trading style of Aspire Financial Management Ltd, an appointed  
representative of TenetConnect Limited.
Background
In early 2017 Mr P started the process to transfer benefits from his OPS with the assistance 
of his financial adviser (IFA). Mr Ps IFA had an ongoing relationship with O&M who had the 
necessary regulatory  permissions.  Mr Ps OPS issued a transfer  quote  in March 2017  which  
was guaranteed for three  months.  The transfer  didnt complete  until January 2018. So Mr Ps 
original quote  lapsed and a new one was issued; this incurred a cost and there was a 
reduction in the quote.
O&M provide a general indication of the likely  timeframes and work involved for a transfer of 
such benefits. This is shown in a three-stage process. In summary:
Stage  1 Initial Review Approximate  Timeframe: 8-10 weeks
Stage  2 Full Regulated  Advice Approximate  Timeframe: 6-8 weeks
Stage  3 Implementing  the Transfer Approximate  Timeframe: 4-8 weeks
On 21 June 2017 O&M concluded they had sufficient to meet  their Stage 1 requirements and 
the information was passed  to the checking stage. It was on 20 July 2017 that a senior O&M 
analyst cleared the case for the initial review. In late August weve  been  told O&M reduced 
their fees by £150  to compensate Mr P for delay. Throughout this time there had been  
contact about  the transfer with Mr P, his IFA and the OPS.
On 5 September 2017 O&M wrote to Mr P with their initial recommendation. And on 8 
September 2017 Stage 2 of the process started. 
In mid-September 2017 O&M held a Stage 2 discussion  with Mr P. Its said O&M explained a 
new transfer quote would be required and that the scheme provider would probably charge 
for this. Mr P paid £500 for a new quote, which was later reimbursed to him by his IFA.
On 20 October 2017 the new transfer quote was received from the OPS  (guaranteed until 
January 2018). There was contact with Mr P and his IFA and they made a complaint about 
the drop in value of £7,000. The complaint  letter referred to O&Ms maximum quoted 
timeframes and the failure for the transfer  to have been completed by October 2017. 
In November 2017 O&M said they would  reduce  their Stage 2 costs by £300  (although  there 
is reference elsewhere to £350). Mr P and his IFA didnt think  this was enough. The transfer 
proceeded and completed on 30 January 2018.
Overall there is reference to Mr P having  paid the following  in fees relating to O&Ms work:
Stage  1: £420  (£350 plus VAT; reduced  by £150).
Stage  2: £1,250 plus £250 implementation  fee (reduced by £300 or £350).
Ref: DRN92236592It appears Mr Ps IFA was paid a fee of £4,500  as part of the transfer agreement. As set out, 
the IFA reimbursed Mr P the £500  cost of the further  OPS transfer quote.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. He primarily considered  whether
delays caused  by O&M were responsible for the lapse of the first guaranteed  transfer  value;
and whether the fee reduction  had been enough  to reflect what happened.  He didnt think  
O&M were directly responsible for the lapse of the first quote and so didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr P and his IFA didnt agree. They provided further  submissions  and newspaper articles 
relating to other transfer cases.  The thrust was they didnt think that a transfer ought to be 
considered satisfactory  when it took from 22 February 2017 until 30 January  2018 to 
complete.
Provisional Decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I agreed  the transfer had taken too long to complete. But 
I didnt think it was right to say O&M failed  to act or that they contributed significantly to any 
delay causing  the first transfer quote  to expire and not more  than any other party.  
I thought the reduction of £150 on what I understood to be the £420 Stage 1 fee would 
generally have  been fair in the circumstances, if that was the extent of what had happened.  I 
felt some concern  at the overall time taken  for transfer and how long some progress and 
work had taken; particularly when taking  into account O&Ms time frames and staging 
process. I found it hard to conclude O&M would have been able to complete their process 
using the first transfer quote based  on how long the first two stages  were  anticipated to take. 
O&M set out we nearly always need additional  information and this can take some  time for 
schemes to provide; and I didnt  think this would have been  unusual. I also considered  what  
had happened  and when. Id seen  that throughout the stages, and particularly Stage 1, there  
had been communications and information  requests  involving at various times O&M, Mr P 
and his IFA and the OPS;  much of this had been  led by O&M.
Based on what Id seen  I thought O&M ought to return half of Mr Ps overall  bill (less the 
amount already deducted by O&M from their fees). Interest to be paid at 8% simple a year 
up to the date of settlement on the sum to be paid to Mr P. In addition, I thought O&M ought 
to pay Mr P £150 to represent the inconvenience  experienced. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr Ps IFA initially queried the Stage 2 reduction. He thought  O&M had only reduced their 
Stage 1 fee and suggested there hadnt been any further reductions. Although  its not 
entirely clear  to me whether this submission remains, as he went on to confirm O&M had 
made a further  reduction offer. In any event the IFA felt that by reimbursing Mr P for the 
second transfer quote hed paid more towards the delays than O&M and he didnt think  
theyd done enough. 
TenetConnect initially accepted my provisional decision; but they went  on to query whether 
Mr P had ever paid the reduced Stage 2 fee.
We asked both Mr Ps IFA and TenetConnect for further information  on this. Various 
responses were received  but these didnt  settle this issue. We spoke to the receiving 
provider to identify  what had been paid and to whom.
Ref: DRN92236593The provider told us £400 was paid for initial adviser  fees in July 2017 (to O&M) and later 
£1,200 was paid on transfer to O&M. Since January  2018 Mr Ps IFA has been receiving all 
ongoing payments.  The provider also confirmed  the IFA was paid £4,500  initial commission  
regarding the transfer in February 2018. Information  was shared and parties given  the 
opportunity to respond.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I havent  changed  from 
the thinking I set out in my provisional  decision.
Overall this transfer took longer than might reasonably have been expected. I think  O&M 
played a role in the time the transfer took to complete. But I dont think  the expiry of the initial 
guaranteed transfer quote from the OPS on 17 June 2017  is significantly attributable  to 
O&M. So, I dont think the delay O&M contributed was to such extent (particularly prior to 17 
June 2017) nor more  than any other  party, that it would be fair for them  to meet  the reduction 
in the transfer  value  or the cost of the new quote. I think  the reimbursement of £150 of what  I 
had understood  to be the £420  due for the period covered by Stage 1, would generally  have 
been a fair offer.  
I continue to think it was unlikely O&M would ever have been able to complete their process  
using the first transfer quote provided  by the OPS  based on the timeframe and activity said 
to have been required for the first two stages. 
O&M provided the service  due to enable the transfer  to complete, but the time taken  was far 
outside even their approximate time frame and could fairly be described as unreasonably 
long. I havent  seen anything that suggests  there was anything  unusual about  this transfer to 
take it outside the reasonable  period  that might be expected for such work. From what  Ive 
seen I think there was delay involved on the part of O&M after Stage 1 and once their Stage 
2 started, as well as part of the overall  process. I acknowledge that Stage 3 was completed 
ahead of the anticipated timeframe. I think its fair for Mr P to have received a reduction in 
the fee charged having looked at what was done and when.
I think the further steps I proposed in my provisional  decision are the right ones. I previously 
asked if any of the sums mentioned were  wrong  or if Id failed to take other fees,  associated  
costs or complaints  into account. 
We went on to ask for further  information and received various suggestions  made on behalf 
of Mr P and TenetConnect in relation to what was or was not paid. The transaction  history 
from the third-party provider is inconsistent with other information. If there were to be any 
ongoing uncertainty, based on what Ive seen I accept the information  provided by the third-
party receiving provider.  This included a print out of deductions  and this information has 
been shared.  
As set out in my provisional  decision, TenetConnect ought to reimburse  half of O&Ms fee to 
Mr P. And I set out this sum ought  to be reduced  for any amount already deducted or 
reimbursed by O&M. This was to achieve,  as explained, a reimbursement of half of what  
O&M received from Mr P. Interest  for the loss of growth and use of the sum due ought to 
also be paid at 8% simple a year up to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN92236594My understanding previously was that O&M had made reductions to what Mr P paid at the 
time payment was made.  It isnt clear to me now whether this happened. The information 
from the receiving provider suggests O&M  were paid £400 for Stage 1 and not £420  as 
suggested elsewhere. I remain unclear if O&M eventually offered to reduce  the Stage 2 fee 
by £300 or £350; and whether this was done. My understanding is TenetConnect previously 
said O&Ms fees had been reduced  by £500  altogether. But Mr Ps transaction history shows 
payments of £400  and £1,200 made  to O&M from Mr Ps account in 2017. 
So for clarity  TenetConnect are required  to reimburse Mr P half of what  he paid to O&M. If 
he was reimbursed any sums after paying  O&M,  by O&M,  such  a sum (with evidence of this 
having taken place to be provided to Mr P) is to be taken off the amount now due to Mr P. 
Interest to be paid at 8% simple a year up to the date of settlement on the sum to be paid to 
Mr P to represent the lack of investment growth  on the deducted sum.
In addition, O&M need to pay Mr P £150 to represent his inconvenience. In reaching this 
sum I have  taken into account  that Mr Ps IFA was the main  point of contact which  limited  
what Mr P was required to do and further it isnt the role of this service  to punish or regulate 
a business.
Final decision
So, for the reasons given I uphold Mr Ps complaint against TenetConnect Limited in part. 
TenetConnect Limited are required to pay Mr P half of what he paid to O&M. If he was 
reimbursed any sums  after paying  O&M, by O&M, such a sum out is to be taken off the 
amount due to Mr P. Interest to be paid at 8% simple a year up to the date of settlement on 
the sum to be paid to Mr P. O&M also need  to pay Mr P £150  to represent his 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9223659