K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Go Car Credit Limited  (GCC) supplied her with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement  which  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  She also says the agreement was 
never affordable to her. 
Miss W is represented  in this complaint by her relative, but for ease Ill refer only to Miss W 
throughout. 
background
In March 2018, Miss W acquired  a used car using a hire purchase agreement from GCC. 
The car was around  ten years old and had travelled  around 85,500 miles. The cash price of 
the car was £4,695. Miss W part-exchanged  her existing car for £1,200 and the remainder 
was paid for using  the hire purchase  agreement.  The agreement was for 36 months with 
monthly repayments of around £170. The total repayable under the agreement was around  
£6,100. 
In July 2018, Miss W complained to GCC about  a number of faults with the car. In summary, 
she said the car was losing power, there was a fault with the rear differential and there  was a 
warning light illuminating. She said there had also been a cracked  alloy which  had now been 
repaired under  warranty. 
The car was returned to the dealership to carry out repairs. The dealership said the warning 
light related to the anti-lock braking system (ABS)  and it noted the mileage on the car was 
now around 93,000. 
At around the same time the manufacturer of the car wrote to Miss W to say there was a 
safety recall relating to the timing  chain within the car. It advised her to arrange for the 
relevant repairs to be carried out. The dealership says it offered to arrange to have the recall 
repairs carried out by the manufacturer, but it says Miss W refused this offer as she wanted 
to arrange it herself.  The dealership arranged for Miss W to sign a disclaimer  which stated 
the dealership  had advised her not to drive the car until the repair work was carried out. 
A few weeks  later Miss W contacted GCC to say the car had broken down. GCC says it 
attempted to contact  Miss W on several  occasions  to find out what  had happened,  but she 
didnt get in contact until late August 2018. When  Miss W did contact GCC she asked to 
replace the car because of the number of issues shed had with it. 
GCC didnt agree to replace the car. It said this was because she hadnt  carried  out the 
repairs that were required  on the car and had continue to drive it. Miss W contacted GCC 
again around a week  later to advise the car had once again broken down and the recovery 
agent had diagnosed a problem with the hydraulics and clutch. She then asked to reject the 
car. GCC  said it wouldnt allow rejection of the car as it hadnt been  given  the opportunity to 
repair the previous  faults or diagnose the current issues. 
The car was eventually returned back to the dealership who arranged to repair the ABS fault, 
the timing chain, the rear differential  and the power  loss fault free of charge. However,  the 
dealership didnt agree to cover the cost of the repair to the clutch. It said the reason this had 
failed was due to driver misuse and was down  to in-service wear and tear rather  than any 
inherent problem  with the components.
Ref: DRN91857982GCC said it accepted  the majority of the faults Miss W had reported did make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.  However, as those issues had now been fixed, it didnt think  it needed  
to do anything more.  
Miss W then raised a complaint with GCC about irresponsible  lending. In summary,  she said 
the agreement  was unaffordable to her and GCC didnt carry out adequate checks on her 
ability to repay the borrowing.  She also said that her and her partner were  vulnerable  and 
this ought to have been  obvious to the dealership and to GCC when they arranged the 
finance agreement. It should have been  clear  they didnt understand what  they were  signing 
up to. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he was satisfied the 
faults with the car had now been  repaired  and he didnt think the issue with the clutch was 
something that GCC were  responsible for. He thought GCC had completed adequate 
affordability checks and this showed  Miss W could afford the agreement. He didnt think  
there was any reason  GCC  ought to have  known Miss W was vulnerable  prior to her 
entering into the agreement. 
Miss W didnt agree,  so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satisfactory quality
The hire purchase agreement Miss W signed is a regulated consumer credit agreement, so 
this service can consider  complaints relating to it. Under the hire purchase agreement,  GCC 
is also the supplier  of the car and is therefore  responsible for a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) implies  a term into any contract  to supply goods that 
those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what  a reasonable 
person would expect,  taking  into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all other  
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include  but arent  
limited to  the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. 
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other  
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
The car was around  10 years old, had covered around 85,500 miles  and had a cash price of 
£4,695. My starting  point is therefore  that it would be reasonable to expect for the car to 
likely need  more maintenance than a brand new car and have components  which have 
suffered some wear  and tear already.  
GCC have appeared  to have accepted  that the faults to the rear differential, the loss of 
power, the ABS and the timing chain made the car of unsatisfactory quality as they were  
likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply or that the components  
werent sufficiently durable.
Ref: DRN91857983The CRA says where the car isnt of satisfactory quality, the trader  (in this case GCC) can 
have one opportunity to put things right. Here  that would be to fix the faults with the car that 
made it of unsatisfactory quality. It seems  those repairs have been carried  out and I havent  
seen anything to make me think the repairs werent  successful.  
However, Miss W has also said the car had a fault with the clutch and hydraulics in around  
August 2018,  which GCC hasnt agreed to repair. However, I dont  think  these faults are 
something GCC ought to be responsible for putting  right. 
I say this because  when these issues first materialised Miss W had travelled over 10,000 
miles in the car and the car had travelled around  95,000 miles in total. I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect  these types  of faults  to appear through normal  in-service  wear and 
tear on a car of this age and mileage. Further,  it appears Miss W continued to drive the car 
for several  thousand  miles  without having essential repairs completed. This was after she 
was advised not to drive the car because it could cause further damage.  Its therefore  
possible her continued  usage has caused these new issues to arise.  
The dealership has also suggested the issue with the clutch  was caused  by driver misuse. 
However, it hasnt provided any supporting evidence to demonstrate  why it believes this to 
be the case. But Ive also considered that Miss W hasnt given us anything  to demonstrate 
that the fault was likely to be developing or was present at the point the car was supplied  to 
her or that the clutch and hydraulics  have failed prematurely for a car of this age and 
mileage. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the issues with the hydraulics and clutch  made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.  Therefore, I dont think GCC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
repairing those faults. However, I think it has acted fairly  in repairing the other  issues with 
the car and doesnt need to do anything more to put things right in relation to the quality of 
the car. 
Irresponsible lending
Ive taken into consideration  amongst other  things  the rules the and guidance for lenders 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  within  the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
When considering  complaints  about  irresponsible lending I think there are two overarching  
questions I need  to consider. These  questions  are:
1.Did GCC complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Miss W 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss W 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2.Did GCC act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way? 
If I think Miss W has been disadvantaged  in any way by GCCs actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did GCC complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss W would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN91857984Before granting credit,  GCC  were required to carry out a reasonable  and proportionate  
assessment of Miss Ws ability to sustainably  repay  the agreement.  This is often referred to 
as an affordability check.  This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to 
be concerned with whether Miss W could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering  her 
specific circumstances), rather  than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter, is the 
risk posed  to GCC as the lender, or its credit  risk but this is not necessarily the same  as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to: 
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount  repayable under the agreement  was around £6,100  with monthly 
repayments of around £170 over 36 months.  While  the amount of borrowing and the size of 
the regular repayments were  relatively modest  in size, the agreement  was expensive. The 
APR was 49.65%. Given this was a relatively  expensive commitment, my starting point is 
that any reasonable and proportionate  assessment of affordability ought to have  been  quite 
thorough. 
GCC says that as part of the application process  it asked  Miss W to provide it with details of 
her income and expenditure. It says it also reviewed  copies of her bank statements to verify 
this information  and completed a credit check to understand  what her existing credit 
commitments were  and how she had been  managing them. 
I think GCC therefore carried  out a reasonable and proportionate  affordability  assessment. It 
gathered enough information  to be able to verify Miss Ws income and expenditure and I 
dont think there was anything else it ought  reasonably to have gathered.  
Did GCC make a fair lending decision?
Although Im satisfied  GCC  carried out reasonable and proportionate  checks,  I still need  to 
consider whether it scrutinised the information  and evidence  it had appropriately and came 
to a fair lending decision. 
The credit check GCC completed  showed that Miss W had only two other existing  credit  
commitments. One was a mail order account, the other a credit card.  These had credit limits 
of £250 and £200. Both accounts  had no adverse information recorded  against them and 
had been managed well up to that point. It didnt appear  Miss W had ever held any other  
form of credit before or that there  was any adverse  information recorded. I dont think there 
was anything showing on Miss Ws credit  file that ought to have concerned  GCC. 
I can see Miss W completed  an income and expenditure form as part of the application. It 
seems the income  she declared was broadly accurate with what her bank statements 
Ref: DRN91857985showed. She had supplied  GCC with bank statements for the previous two and a half 
months, I think  this would have given  a reasonable indication of regular income and 
commitments. So, I think it was reasonable for GCC to rely on the figure of £1,600 as an 
indication of what she earnt. 
In terms of expenditure, I note Miss W stated very low figures for rent, council tax, food and 
petrol. However, I can see that GCC noticed  this too and asked Miss W further  questions  
about why these figures were so low. It appears  Miss W told GCC that her partner covered 
the majority of these  payments  and the petrol expenses were low as they only travelled 
locally. I dont think GCC acted unreasonably in accepting what Miss W told them as 
I havent seen  any reason  they ought  to have questioned this further. GCC also added an 
additional buffer of £300 to account  for any unexpected costs. And even with this £300  taken  
off from her income, it showed the lending was affordable. 
Having reviewed the bank statements Miss W provided GCC, I can see the majority of what  
shed declared  as her expenditure was broadly  accurate  with what  the bank statements 
showed. The only significant discrepancy was that shed declared £17 per month for tv, 
broadband and mobile when it appears her statements showed  her expenditure for this was 
around £100. It also appears her petrol and food costs may have  been  slightly  higher than 
she declared, but I dont  think these  appeared to be significantly  different. 
In any event, even  taking into account  the higher figures showing on her bank statements 
this still showed  Miss W had more than enough disposable income to cover the costs of the 
hire purchase agreement.  For this reason, I dont think GCC acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in lending to Miss W. 
Miss W has since provided  us with a revised  income and expenditure assessment. She says 
this shows after the hire purchase  agreement is taken into account  and its increased 
associated costs (such as petrol)  the agreement is unaffordable.  However, Ive seen that 
some of the expenses Miss W has listed are discretionary and it appears when taking only 
essential costs  into account the lending still appears affordable.  But even if I was to accept  
the hire purchase  agreement is actually unaffordable to Miss W, I dont think  GCC would or 
should have been reasonably aware of that at the time she applied for it. 
Did GCC act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other  way? 
Miss W says her and her partner are vulnerable and this ought  to have been immediately 
obvious to the dealership and to GCC. She says had further questions been  asked  of their 
circumstances it would  have become  clear  that they didnt understand what  they were 
entering into and that it wouldnt  be appropriate  to lend to her. 
Ive listened to a call GCC had with Miss W a day before she signed the finance paperwork. 
The purpose of the call was to go through  the details of the purchase  and the finance  
agreement. I dont think there was anything within this call that ought  to have made  GCC 
think Miss W was vulnerable in any way or didnt understand what  it was she was entering 
into. 
While I cant be sure exactly what was discussed with the dealership, I havent been 
provided with anything persuasive  to make me think the dealership or GCC ought to have 
known that Miss W was vulnerable to the extent that lending to her was inappropriate. Im 
therefore not satisfied that GCC acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
Ref: DRN91857986I understand the agreement is currently in arrears as Miss W is struggling to keep up with 
the repayments. Miss W should  discuss her circumstances with GCC so that it can agree  a 
suitable and fair way to help her.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9185798