K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Lloyds Bank plc has refused to refund two card transactions made  on 
her account  without her knowledge or consent. She says she didnt receive  the card or PIN 
used to make those transactions.   
background
Ms B has explained that she had been  in a debt management plan for several years.  Her 
older daughter had offered to help her out and on 11 October 2017 transferred  a total of 
£10,000 to Ms Bs Lloyds account.  
A few days  later, Ms B says, she realised that she couldnt find her debit card.  She ordered a 
new one, and a new PIN. The banks records show that a new PIN was sent by post to Ms 
Bs address on 16 October, and a replacement card the following day.  
The new card and PIN were used  to make a balance enquiry on 21 October. The following 
day, they were  used  for a £9,900 purchase at a jewellers and a £370 cash machine 
withdrawal  both more than 150 miles  from Ms Bs home. Those transactions triggered a 
text message from the bank, alerting Ms B to the fact that her account was overdrawn.  Ms B 
called the bank in response; when she was told about the transactions,  she said she knew  
nothing about  them and hadnt  received the card or the PIN. 
Lloyds investigated  what had happened  but said it wouldnt  refund the payments  from Ms Bs 
account. Ms B referred the matter to this service,  where one of our investigators  looked at it. 
He concluded,  on balance, that it was likely  that Ms B had received the replacement card 
and PIN and that either Ms B had made the transactions, or someone  else had done so with 
her authority. He didnt  think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to make a refund.  
Ms B didnt accept the investigators  conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case  as the final stage in our process.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Im satisfied that the genuine card and PIN were  used  for both the purchase  and the cash 
machine withdrawal. That is of course  consistent with Ms Bs case  that someone  else 
managed to intercept the card and PIN. So I need to consider whether that is likely to have 
happened. 
Whoever used the card and PIN would have had to obtain both. I cant rule out the possibility 
that someone was able to do that without  Ms Bs knowledge.  However, given that they were 
sent separately on different days to Ms Bs home address, I think thats  unlikely. Ms B has 
told us that she lives with her younger daughter,  and I can safely  rule out any involvement  on 
her part. On balance,  I think the card and PIN were  safely delivered to Ms Bs address and 
that she received  them.  
There are however some other factors that lead me to believe that Ms Bs version of events  
is not totally reliable. 
Ref: DRN92829922When a card is lost or stolen, its not usually necessary  to order  a new PIN. Ms B says she 
thought it was usual procedure and that bank staff suggested it. The recording  of her 
reporting her card missing  indicates  however that she expressly asked  for a replacement 
PIN as well. She has not been consistent in her reasons for doing that. She suggested that 
someone might have seen her PIN, but also that she had forgotten it  even though shed  
used the previous PIN for several years.
I accept that the immediate source of the £10,000 paid into Ms Bs account was her older 
daughters account.  Thats apparent from Ms Bs own bank statements. But Ms B and her 
daughter have been less forthcoming  about  what happened before  that. Her daughter has 
not provided copies  of her bank statements, for example. Shes  not obliged  to do so, of 
course  either to Lloyds or to this service. But the transfer of £10,000  was supposed to help 
her mother  out, and in the circumstances I might have expected  her to demonstrate more 
clearly how she was able to do that.
I note too that there was a balance  enquiry  the day before the disputed  transactions were  
made. Whoever made  that enquiry knew that there  was some  £10,000  in the account,  but 
didnt act immediately   suggesting  they knew that the money would still be there the 
following day and that the card would not be reported missing in that time. Someone  
unknown to Ms B is unlikely to have been that confident. 
Overall, therefore, I think the most likely explanation  for what  happened here is that Ms B 
either made the disputed transactions herself  or gave someone else the replacement  card 
and PIN so they could do so  with her authority. Either way, it wouldnt be fair to require 
Lloyds to refund those  payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything further to resolve 
Ms Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2019. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9282992