K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc wont fully refund disputed transactions  made 
on her accounts. She says shes not responsible for spending this money. 
background
Miss G told us she received an inheritance following a bereavement. Her current  account  
statement shows £20,000 was paid into her account  on 21 December 2016.
On 28 March 2017, Miss G contacted the bank to discuss  a transaction she was trying to 
make for a supermarket home delivery.  The banks notes of the call suggest Miss G 
confirmed shed used  the company before. Miss G didnt raise  any other matters at that 
point.
On 9 April 2017,  Miss G contacted the bank  because  she had concerns about some  
transactions. She disputed over 120 payments made from 28 December 2016 onwards. 
The banks notes  say Miss G had given her debit card and PIN to her ex-boyfriend, (who Ill 
call Mr S) and that he knew about  the inheritance money. The notes say Miss G told the 
bank Mr S had used her card in the past but had always returned it to her. 
On 17 April 2017, the bank declined Miss Gs fraud  claim. It concluded the disputed 
spending was made up of transactions Miss G had either made  herself or had authorised. 
It said Miss G was with Mr S on the days the card was being used and that some of the 
disputed transactions  were for her benefit. It suggested Miss G should  pursue the matter 
with the police. 
On 18 May 2017, Miss G contacted the bank to dispute further transactions made between 
30 January 2017  and 30 March 2017. The disputed transactions were  to an online retailer. 
Later that day, Miss G called the bank to raise  concerns about  transactions  that happened in 
April 2017. The bank  said it had already  investigated them. 
On 26 June 2017, Miss G contacted the bank to dispute a transaction  made  to a footwear 
retailer on 21 April 2017. She said that a friend had used her card without her permission 
and there  had been a prosecution. 
On 29 June 2017 at around  6.30pm, Miss G contacted the bank and said money had been 
fraudulently taken from her account between 28 December 2016 and 31 January 2017. She 
said her friends had been with her when she had been using her card. She explained that 
Mr S had access to her card to go to the shops and buy things shed needed when she was 
unwell. Miss G said they had lived together for three years so he could have accessed the 
card whilst she was asleep. She also said they didnt have a fixed address at that time the 
transactions happened so she wouldnt have received any bank statements. 
Miss G explained she was spending  a lot herself  around the time so didnt notice the balance 
of the account  going  down. She told the bank all of the other  transactions were genuine. 
Later that evening, Miss G spoke to the bank again. Miss G highlighted further  transactions  
she was concerned about.  The bank  said it wouldnt look into them  any further because 
Miss G had already  agreed the spending  was genuine. The banks notes suggest Miss G 
became distressed during  the call and explained she needed to make  the claim in bits as 
she suffers  from health conditions that affect her memory. She disputed  35 transactions 
made between 31 January 2017 and 6 March 2017. 
Ref: DRN91895612At this stage, the bank agreed  to refund 68 transactions  totalling around £5,200. It did this as 
a gesture of goodwill  because  it considered Miss G to be in a vulnerable position when they 
spoke. 
Some of the refunded money was withdrawn  in branch the next day. Miss Gs bank 
statement shows the remainder of the refund was transferred to another  account in her 
name on 8 July 2017. 
On 9 July 2017,  Miss G went  into branch  to raise concerns about a further  39 transactions 
made between 21 December 2016 and 3 April 2017.  Miss G said the police  had told her the 
bank needed to refund the transactions. She explained Mr S had obtained her PIN by 
looking over her shoulder. She said he was able to take her card, use it and put it back  
without her noticing because she was unwell.  She explained their relationship  ended  in 
March 2017. 
The bank investigated these transactions but declined the claim on 30 July 2017. It 
suggested that Miss G should go back into branch if she needed  support  to identify what 
was in dispute. 
It is unclear exactly what happened  at the branch. The bank has provided a note of a phone 
call of a conversation with Miss G that took place on 22 August 2017. Miss G said over 
£10,000 had been taken  from her account.  She told the bank it was possible someone had 
managed to get hold of her card and PIN when shed had her drink spiked. She also 
suggested someone must have seen her enter her PIN and use it when they later managed  
to remove her card from her. Miss G wasnt able to provide any specific  details around 
exactly when and how this happened. She pointed out that almost  all of her inheritance 
money had gone  within  four months  and felt the bank  must be responsible for that. The 
banks notes suggest it told Miss G the information  shed provided didnt change  its decision 
to decline the claim.  
On 20 September  2017, Miss G disputed transactions made in March  and April 2017. The 
bank explained  it had already looked at those  transactions  as part of the previous claims.
Miss G made a complaint about the decision to decline her claim and said a further £15,000 
was owed to her. She told the bank she had been  the victim of further  fraud after shed  
ended the relationship with Mr S. She said a friend had stolen her card when looking after it 
whilst Miss G had a beauty treatment. Miss G explained her purse was kept in her friends  
bag because she trusted her. She said she hadnt realised her friend had been using the 
card because the transactions happened at a difficult  time in her life. 
In early November 2017, the bank issued its first final response. It didnt consider the 
transactions Miss G was concerned about  had been  made  fraudulently. It said it wasnt  clear 
how Miss Gs friend could have known  her PIN. It said the information  Miss G had provided  
about what happened was inconsistent and didnt seem plausible. It also pointed out the 
amounts being  claimed varied a lot.
So it thought  Miss G had either authorised the transactions or theyd  happened  because 
shed not safeguarded security details  such as her card and PIN. 
After receiving the first final response,  Miss G raised additional concerns about further 
transactions from around the same  time that she said hadnt been considered before. So the 
bank looked into those and issued a second final response on 17 November 2017.It declined 
Miss Gs further claim. 
Ref: DRN91895613It pointed out Miss G held four accounts  with it and said it wasnt clear exactly  what  was in 
dispute because  she had added many more  transactions  since the original claim, and after 
shed previously confirmed some of the spending as genuine. 
It looked at everything  Miss G had said happened  in the time shed raised  concerns about  
the spending on her accounts again and pointed  out the amounts Miss G has disputed 
varied between  £10,000  and £30,000.  
It also highlighted that Miss G had given a lot of different reasons to explain how and why 
her accounts  had been accessed by other people, making it very difficult  to work out what 
might have happened and how. It concluded  that, on balance, Miss G had either acted with 
gross negligence or shed  authorised the spending  on her accounts.  
Miss G was unhappy with the outcome and asked us to consider the matter.  She pointed out 
the police  had told her the bank was responsible for giving her a refund. 
Our adjudicator tried to get to the bottom of the matter and asked Miss G to confirm  
specifically which transactions were  still in dispute. Miss G highlighted a number of cash  
machine withdrawals, retail transactions  and online transactions made between 
19 December 2016 and 4 May 2017  totalling  around £11,800. Some  of the highlighted 
transactions had already been  refunded  by the bank in June 2017.
 
Our adjudicator also asked Miss G about  the disputed transactions  and whether shed ever 
been to any of the places  or used  any of the services. But Miss G said she wasnt  able to 
remember anything about where shed visited and when due to the time that had passed. 
So the adjudicator contacted some of the merchants herself to try and find out more. Not all 
of the merchants were  able to help, but one company did respond to say it had provided 
services to Miss G. 
Initially Miss G told the adjudicator shed never  allowed Mr S to use her card at all, nor told 
him what the PIN was. But she later said shed allowed him to use her card and PIN on 
occasions when  shed been  unwell.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Gs complaint and recommended the bank should refund  the 
outstanding disputed transactions. She recognised  Miss Gs version of events had been 
inconsistent. But she didnt think Miss G had realised there  was a risk Mr S could use the 
details shed shared to make transactions she hadnt agreed to. She thought Mr S had taken 
advantage of the situation at a time when she was vulnerable. The adjudicator noted Miss G 
had breached the terms and conditions of her bank account by giving her card and PIN to 
third parties. She suggested Miss G may even have been grossly negligent. But she thought  
it would  be fair and reasonable for the bank to still refund the remaining  disputed  
transactions in the individual circumstances of this complaint. She pointed  out the bank had 
only specifically told Miss G about the importance of keeping  her personal security  
information safe after the disputed transactions had happened. 
The bank disagreed with our adjudicators stance.  It said some of the disputed  transactions  
took place very close in time to genuine transactions which happened before and after, 
suggesting the card would have  needed  to move  back and forth between the customer  and 
someone else on the same day. It said some of the disputed spending was similar  in nature 
to undisputed spending and pointed specifically to transactions made at hair and beauty 
retailers. It also pointed out an instance where  a balance enquiry  was made four minutes 
after a transaction  that wasnt disputed. 
Ref: DRN91895614It felt this was likely to be a genuine  balance  enquiry  made  by Miss G. It said she ought to 
have realised sooner  if the balance on her account was less than she was expecting.  
As the bank didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, Miss Gs complaint has been  passed to 
an ombudsman to review  and issue a final decision on.
my further investigation 
When the complaint  was passed to me, I had some  further questions  for Miss G. I asked if 
she had any correspondence from the police that I could look at. I also asked her for more  
details around  the circumstances of the specific transactions shed highlighted as being 
fraudulent.
Miss G provided me with as much information  as she could, but she didnt  have any 
paperwork from the police. She said she thought Mr S had made  the transactions  but wasnt  
able to provide  any more  details about  where she was when they happened.  
I contacted the police to see if it could provide further information to help me understand 
what may have happened. The investigating  officer told me Miss G had made an allegation  
about Mr S taking money from her account without her consent.  He said the matter  had not 
progressed any further because they were  unable to verify the truth of what  Miss G had said. 
The investigating officer  said the disputed transactions were made at a time when Miss G 
and Mr S were holidaying  together  and had spent a considerable  amount of money,  
including buying  clothing for them both. This ties in with what Miss G has previously said 
about spending a lot of money herself  around that time. The investigating officer didnt  
provide any information about Miss Gs friend being prosecuted. 
Miss G contacted me for regular updates  on how my investigation was progressing.  When  
she did so, she gave  me more information  to consider. She told me about  some of the 
difficulties she has experienced in recent years and how this money was meant to be put 
towards her future. She told me the money the bank had refunded in June 2017 had been  
stolen too. 
Miss G provided some new evidence about  how the disputed transactions  could have  
happened. She explained she was staying in a hotel on 28 December 2016  and her room 
was broken into whilst she was resident there.  She said the person stole  a large  amount of 
cash from the room and must have also taken her card details so they could purchase things 
without her knowledge. She said the bank card was on the side table in the hotel and not 
kept with her because  she had cash  to use. She thought the card details could have been 
stolen by the hotels cleaning staff or by the hotel manager. 
my provisional decision  
I then made  a provisional decision outlining what I thought. This is what  I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently minded to 
reach a different conclusion to our adjudicator,  so its important I set out my thinking on this 
and give both sides the chance to respond  before I conclude the matter. 
Ref: DRN91895615I can see Miss G feels very strongly about  the complaint. Thats clear from what shes  said to 
both us and the bank.  But from whats been said and provided  so far, theres not much 
common ground about exactly what happened  or how it might have happened. Where the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as it is here),  I reach my findings on 
balance  in other words,  what  I consider  is more  likely than not to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
did Miss G authorise the disputed payments?
A customer should only be responsible for transactions theyve authorised. Miss G says she 
didnt make any of the transactions  in dispute. But Bank of Scotland can still hold Miss G 
liable for them if the evidence  suggests its more likely than not that she did make them, or if 
she authorised someone else to make them, or if she failed to keep her account  safe - either 
by displaying  a very high degree of carelessness or by intentionally  failing to keep her card 
and PIN safe.  
The transactions Miss G has disputed  include  cash machine  withdrawals, retail  spending  in 
stores and online purchases. Ive looked  carefully  at the banks technical  records to 
understand how the disputed payments were made. The banks evidence  shows the genuine 
card and PIN were  used and the relevant  verification procedures  were followed. So Im 
satisfied the transactions were made with Miss Gs genuine account information.  But the 
regulations relevant to this case say this is not, on its own, enough to say Bank of Scotland 
can hold Miss G responsible for the payments  she disputes. A payment out of someones 
account can only be treated as authorised  if the payer has consented to it. So Ive also gone  
on to think about  the circumstances around  the transactions  and whether Miss G gave her 
consent to the payments being  made.  
One of the difficulties in this case is its not very clear exactly what happened  or how it 
happened. Miss G has changed her account of the key events, which  are significant  details 
that go to the very heart of this complaint. So Ive got to consider what I think is likely to have 
happened here, and how Miss G was involved. 
Miss G has told me she finds it distressing to keep revisiting these matters now and I do 
appreciate that she wants to put this difficult time in her life behind her. But she hasnt been 
able to specify clearly and consistently  which transactions  she thinks were  made  by Mr S 
and which  ones could  have been  made by her friend or by the other  third parties  that shes 
later mentioned. Shes also been  unable to consistently identify the transactions  she did 
make. So this makes  it very difficult for me to place much weight on what  shes  said.  
Im not currently persuaded the disputed  transactions  were carried out by a thief who had 
gained access to Miss Gs hotel room on 28 December 2016.  Miss G has disputed 
transactions that happened before she says the break in occurred. And even if a cleaner or 
manager had made  a record of Miss Gs card details, its unclear how they would have 
known other  personal  information about  Miss Gs account to be able to go on and make  
online transactions. In addition  to this, they would have  needed  the card and PIN to be able 
to make transactions in shops and restaurants,  but my understanding is the bank card 
wasnt taken from the room. It also seems unlikely  that an opportunistic thief would wait to 
use the account, but there are no transactions  for two days  following the break in. 
Ref: DRN91895616Initially Miss G told our adjudicator that she hadnt  shared  her card and PIN with anyone. 
Shes later told me that she did give her card to Mr S, but only so he could make 
transactions when  she was unwell. She then suggested that Mr S found out her PIN 
because he observed  her using the card. But that conflicts with what she first told the bank, 
and with the information provided to me by the police. 
From the information that I currently have to consider,  I find Miss G willingly provided her 
card and PIN to at least  one third party, on more than one occasion, to make payments. 
So some of the activity  on her account,  although not carried  out by her, will be activity  that 
she has given her consent to. Its possible one of the third parties Miss G has referred to 
may have  abused her trust and exceeded  what she had agreed to by using  the card and PIN 
shed given them to buy things she didnt know about or things that she wouldnt have 
wanted to buy herself.  
If thats what happened, even though  Miss G didnt agree to or know  about these payments, 
providing the third party with the card and PIN served to, in effect, authorise the further 
spending. Whilst Miss G may not have known about  all of the spending, she knew shed 
given her card and PIN to someone for the purpose  of making  payments. 
Its also possible, although difficult to tell from Miss Gs account of events, that whilst she 
gave her card and PIN to a third party on occasions, at other times the card was taken and 
used by them without  her knowledge. So Ive thought about  the possibility that Miss Gs card 
was stolen and used by someone  close to her during the time the disputed transactions 
happened. I dont think it would be appropriate to say Miss G gave her consent to any 
transactions that happened during a time that the card was in the hands  of a third party  
without her knowledge or agreement. 
However, in order to assess whether the bank  or Miss G should be liable for these 
transactions, I would  need Miss G to identify  exactly which transactions  happened when she 
hadnt willingly given her card to anyone and she hasnt been able to do this. Im not able to 
place much weight  on the explanations Miss G has provided because her version of events 
has far too many contradictions.  Its unclear to me when exactly  Miss G gave the card to a 
third party and when  it was returned  to her possession. As there  are undisputed transactions 
in between the disputed ones, I am assuming Miss G was in the vicinity  and her card was 
where she usually  kept it when  she wanted  to use it. But with this in mind, its unclear to me 
how a third party could  have repeatedly used and returned Miss Gs card to her without her 
noticing, given  that some of the disputed  transactions and undisputed transactions  happen  
only minutes apart. 
Without that detail,  I can only find that Miss G is liable for any transactions made in this way 
as well. I say this because  even if Miss G didnt  authorise the transactions, I would still need 
to think about  if shed been  grossly  negligent  or failed with intent to keep her personalised 
security details secure. 
Miss G has taken  a risk by passing on details of her account that only she should know. She 
has knowingly given her account information  to at least  one person  and allowed them to use 
her account.  But she is responsible for making sure her card and PIN are secure.  The 
circumstances around Miss Gs claim are far from clear. Based on what I have to consider, 
even if Miss G didnt authorise the transactions, she has more likely  than not either failed 
with intent to comply with her obligation  to keep  the personal security details of her card safe 
or she was grossly negligent. 
Ref: DRN91895617Im sorry  to have to disappoint Miss G. She has told me about the plans she had for this 
money and I am sympathetic to the difficult position  she will be in without it. But for the 
reasons I have explained, together with my concerns  over the credibility  of her version of 
events that I cannot  overlook, I dont think I can fairly say Bank of Scotland  should refund 
any further transactions. 
after my provisional  decision  
Bank of Scotland received my provisional  decision and had no comments or additional  
information to provide.
Miss G didnt  accept my provisional  decision. She felt it was unfair, especially as our 
adjudicator had told the bank to refund her.
She explained the money had been stolen and it wasnt fair that she couldnt get it back. 
She said the police  had been into the bank  three  times to confirm  it was theft and to tell the 
bank to refund her. Miss G said someone  had made a fraudulent account in her name with 
an online  retailer, as well as making  transactions to a mobile phone company and to food 
retailers. 
I asked Miss G to provide  me with any further details from the police,  along  with any other  
relevant information  about the disputed transactions,  such as information from the online 
retailer about the fraudulent account.  Miss G didnt have any paperwork,  but suggested the 
bank needed to raise chargebacks for the disputed payments.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am reaching  the same  
overall conclusions  as I did in my provisional  decision and for much the same reasons. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I cant place much weight on what  Miss G has 
suggested happened because her version  of events has changed so much. Initially she said 
the transactions could have been made  by her ex-partner or by a friend.  Shes later 
suggested they could have been  made  by hotel staff. She has indicated some  occasions 
where she willingly gave her card details to a third party and other occasions where she says 
she did not. 
As a result, it is very difficult for me to be able to identify which transactions were made with 
her authority  and which happened because she let someone else make them, especially as 
Miss G hasnt  been able to consistently  identify the transactions in dispute. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Miss G said the police went  into the bank three times 
and confirmed it was theft. But Miss G hasnt been  able to provide me with any further 
details about this, nor was she able to provide me anything from the merchants she 
highlighted to confirm  accounts had been fraudulently set up in her name. So I still cant  be 
as sure as I would need to be that the transactions Miss G is concerned  about  have been 
made without her knowledge  and authority. 
Ref: DRN91895618Miss G would like the bank to raise  chargeback  claims for the transactions to the online 
retailer, the mobile phone company and the food retailers. But the timescales  for submitting 
a chargeback are quite  strict and Bank of Scotland would not be able to raise a chargeback 
now for transactions that happened around  three years ago. 
Im sorry  to have to disappoint Miss G. I know this isnt the news  she was hoping  for. 
Miss Gs response to my provisional decision hasnt added any clarity  to the case.  So for the 
reasons Ive already explained,  both here and in my provisional decision,  even  if Miss G 
didnt authorise  the transactions,  I consider she has more likely than not either  failed with 
intent to comply with her obligation to keep the personal security  details of her card safe or 
she has been grossly  negligent.  So it would not be fair for me to say Bank of Scotland 
should refund the money she has lost. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  I dont require Bank  of Scotland plc to do anything  further to resolve 
Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189561