K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
I sent my provisional decision on 6 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold, but that Barclays had to pack  back  any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me, but both sides said they had 
nothing more to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any new evidence or arguments to add. So having reconsidered the case,  
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91641132COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2003. 
Mrs J says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think the policy  was mis-sold, because:
When Mrs J first applied for her credit card in 2002, she was offered  the choice  to take PPI, but 
didnt choose  it at that stage,  and her card was approved without PPI. In 2003, Barclays spoke to 
Mrs J on the phone  and sold her the policy. Since it was so long ago, there isnt still a recording of 
the call. But from what Ive seen of the sales  process  at the time, the adviser was prompted to 
explain PPI was optional, and to only add it with the customers permission.  Ive not seen any clear  
reason to think the adviser didnt  follow the usual process with Mrs J. And Mrs J wouldve  known 
she didnt have to have PPI, since  shed already had the card without it for a number  of months. 
So I think  its most likely that Barclays made it clear Mrs J didnt have to take out the policy, and 
that she chose to take it  though I can certainly understand  why she might  not remember this 
after so long.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs J, so it had to check that the policy was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example,  Mrs J 
has told us she didnt get any work  benefits, other than perhaps the limited statutory ones.  And 
while she had some  savings, shes not told us her salary,  or indicated that the savings  were 
substantial enough to not need PPI. While I understand her partner or family mightve been  willing 
to help, this policy  meant she wouldnt have  to ask them. And the card was Mrs Js sole 
responsibility, so I dont  think it wouldve been suitable for the adviser to have recommended she 
rely on someone else to pay it.
Mrs J had a pre-existing medical condition that might not have been covered. But from what shes 
told us, shed  had it for many years and it didnt affect her day-to-day life or ability  to work, never 
caused her to take time off, and only needed medication before specific activities.  And this 
insurance was there to cover significant time off work.  So it doesnt look like Mrs J wouldve 
considered her condition to be likely to cause her to claim. And she wasnt affected by any of the 
other exclusions  to or limits on the PPI.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But it looks like she chose to take out the policy, which  suggests she wanted this type of 
cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was significantly  affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions or limitations,  and it would have been  useful for Mrs J in case  something went 
wrong. And Mrs J could cancel it without further cost if her situation changed or she didnt want  it 
anymore. So overall, I dont  think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
Ref: DRN91641133But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mrs J about that. Because Barclays didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  which  would mean Barclays Bank UK PLC does 
not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But I do think  Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit  share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so I dont plan to 
award any further compensation. 
Please could  Mrs J and Barclays  send me any more information  or comments to look at by 6 April 
2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9164113