K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Pepper  (UK) Limited are pursuing him for a mortgage  shortfall  after they 
repossessed his house. He thinks the house was sold for less than it was worth and so he 
shouldnt be liable for the outstanding debt.
background
Mr A had an interest-only mortgage,  which  was due to end in 2027. Pepper  were the 
regulated administrators  of the mortgage on behalf of the lender, who bought  the debt in 
2015. 
In 2018, Pepper took possession of the property, and it was sold for £120,000. Pepper 
asked Mr A to agree  to an arrangement to pay the shortfall left on the mortgage, which  was 
around £37,000.
Mr A complained to Pepper about  this, as he felt hed already paid enough towards  the 
mortgage over the years.  He wasnt happy the property was only sold for £120,000 which left 
him with a shortfall  to pay. He also complained  that he wasnt told the mortgage  had moved 
to a different  lender than who he originally  took it out with.
Pepper didnt  uphold the complaint. They were satisfied theyd achieved the best price they 
could get for the property, and that Mr A remained liable for the shortfall  under  the terms of 
the mortgage. They said both the previous  lender and themselves wrote to Mr A at the time 
of the mortgage  transfer in 2015,  to notify him of the change  in lender, so he would have 
been aware of this at the time.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into things but didnt  
uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  that Pepper had acted fairly when marketing and 
selling the property, and that Mr A would need to pay the shortfall.  She also explained  that 
Pepper should try and work with Mr A to agree an affordable way for him to repay the debt.
Mr A disagreed. He also complained about the mis-sale of the mortgage, but our service  has 
considered this complaint previously under a separate complaint reference. 
Mr A also said he wasnt  happy that Pepper took possession of the property in the first place 
when hed made a proposal to clear the arrears. He still didnt think  he should have to pay 
the shortfall. Our investigator considered this but wasnt persuaded to change  her opinion.  
So the complaints  been passed  to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pepper acted  unfairly  by taking possession of the property
Due to Mr As circumstances,  he struggled  to maintain the full monthly mortgage payments 
over significant periods  during the life of the mortgage. Hes told us he had two properties  
and so found it difficult to maintain payments on both of these. Whether Mr A should have 
been sold this mortgage in the first place  is a complaint our service has already considered, 
so I havent looked into that again.  What I have considered is whether Pepper  treated Mr A 
Ref: DRN92601602fairly when  he was experiencing financial difficulties, and whether it was fair for them  
ultimately to take possession of the property.
Ive carefully considered  the contact notes  for Mr As mortgage, as well as the transaction 
history of the account. Its clear from the inconsistent payment history, that maintaining this 
mortgage had been unaffordable for Mr A for some  time. And from the conversations Mr A 
had with Pepper about his situation,  it didnt look like his circumstances were  due to change 
significantly which may have improved his situation. In September 2017, the court issued  a 
suspended possession order, but unfortunately, Mr A was unable to maintain the payments 
required to meet the order. So in May 2018  the court granted  the lender a warrant  for 
possession.
Following this, before proceeding  to eviction Pepper continued to engage with Mr A to see if 
he could make a credible proposal to clear the arrears. Mr A did make  a proposal to pay 
£450 per month,  which if kept to, would have  cleared the arrears balance before the end of 
the mortgage term. However,  Mr A was unable to provide evidence that this amount would 
be affordable for him. He hadnt been  able to make any payments  from March 2018 
onwards, and during phone conversations mentioned that he would continue to struggle to 
pay. It also appears that Mr A wasnt permanently living  in the property,  and was letting it to 
a friend.  So on balance, Im not persuaded Pepper  declined Mr As proposal unfairly,  as 
agreeing to an arrangement that was unaffordable for Mr A would  only have led to the 
arrears building  up and costs increasing  leaving him in an even worse position  if 
repossession was delayed. This wouldnt have been in Mr As best interests.
Pepper attempted to contact Mr A frequently whilst  payments  were  being missed, and also 
wrote to him to explain what was happening,  and what Mr A needed  to do to avoid 
repossession. Im satisfied they made Mr As options clear to him, and it was for Mr A to 
seek alternatives if he wanted to clear  the arrears or redeem the mortgage without Pepper  
having to take possession  of the property. So considering everything, whilst  I understand  
how difficult things have  been for Mr A, Im satisfied  Pepper acted fairly when taking 
possession of the property.
The property was sold for less than it was worth
Before marketing the property, Pepper  received  two valuations   one from a chartered 
surveyor and another  from an estate  agent.  They valued the property at £115,000 and 
£110,000 respectively. The estate  agent also carried out comparisons to similar properties 
that had sold recently  in the area. The property was marketed at £120,000, and the agents  
received an offer for this amount after being  on the market for 46 days, which  they accepted 
on behalf of the lender.
I appreciate Mr A feels the property should have  been sold for more money, but Im not 
persuaded from the evidence Ive seen that the property was worth more  than what it sold 
for. Its fair for Pepper to rely on the valuations of experts in the industry, and Ive not seen 
anything that should have  prompted  them to question the valuations they received. They  
marketed the property above the valuations, and accepted  an offer for this amount  which 
took several weeks to obtain. So whilst  I understand  its disappointing  for Mr A, Im not 
satisfied Pepper  have sold Mr As house  under its value.
Pepper is pursuing Mr A for the shortfall
Ref: DRN92601603Mr A originally borrowed around £116,000 on an interest-only basis. However, over the life 
of the mortgage  the balance increased  due to ground rent, service charges  and fees being 
added to the mortgage. The mortgage  was also in arrears as not all the monthly interest 
payments had been made. And in turn this meant more interest was charged and added  to 
the balance. This meant the outstanding balance on the mortgage before the property was 
sold was just above £150,000. Once  the property was sold,  the costs of sale were also 
added to the debt  as the terms and conditions allow.
So once the property was sold and the proceeds had been used to redeem the mortgage  
there was still an outstanding  balance of around £37,000  that Pepper  have  asked Mr A to 
pay. Although  Mr A feels hes paid enough over the life of the mortgage  so that Pepper 
should be able to write-off the shortfall, when  he agreed to the mortgage in 2007, he also 
agreed to the terms and conditions of the mortgage account. This means that Pepper are 
entitled to pursue Mr A for the outstanding sum on the mortgage account.  Whilst this is the 
case, Ive also thought  about whether this is fair for them to do.
A large  part of the outstanding balance is made  up of ground rent, service  charges, legal 
fees and also just the unpaid arrears that have accrued on the mortgage account over time. 
Under the terms of the mortgage, the lender will add any costs theyve incurred in protecting 
their security  onto the mortgage for the borrower to pay. Where  this includes the costs and 
charges that Ive listed above  this is common practice for most lenders. This complaint isnt 
against the lender  its against  Pepper, who are collecting the mortgage balance on behalf 
of the lender. Considering  the balance Pepper have decided  to pursue Mr A for and what  
this is made  up of  Im persuaded its reasonable for them to attempt to collect these funds 
on behalf of the lender.  
However, given Mr As circumstances, I understand this may be difficult for him. So Id 
expect Pepper  to engage with Mr A and agree an arrangement to repay the shortfall in a way 
thats affordable  for him if possible. 
Mr A has also mentioned confusion about who the lender  of his mortgage has been. The 
mortgage was originally taken out with a different lender  and transferred to the current  
lender in 2015. Ive seen copies of the letters that were  sent to Mr A at the time of the 
transfer, and Im satisfied  that this was clear.  In any case, Pepper have been administering  
the mortgage on behalf of the lender since 2015.  Mr A hasnt  raised any specific concerns 
about the detriment he feels hes experienced because of this, and I havent  seen anything 
to suggest this was the case.
Considering everything, whilst I understand Mr A has been  through a difficult  time, Im not 
satisfied this was as a result of Pepper  unfairly handling the repossession  of his property.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Ref: DRN92601604Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9260160