K820x#14complaint
Ms N says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms N took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2004. Ms N paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage payments in case 
she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ns case.  
While I know this will disappoint Ms N, I dont think this particular PPI policy was mis-sold  
Ill go through my reasoning.
This policy was sold quite some time ago, and has long since closed, so Halifax dont have 
the original documents from the sale. But we have seen sample copies of the documents  
Ms N wouldve  used  at the time. From that, it looks like she wouldve been given a choice 
about whether  shed  like PPI or not, and in order to get the policy she wouldve had to 
actively choose it. Further,  the cost of the PPI wouldve been set out separately  to the cost of 
the mortgage itself,  rather  than as something  that was necessarily included.  And Ive not 
seen any evidence which shows Halifax misled  Ms N into thinking the policy was compulsory 
or put her under unfair pressure to buy it. So I think its most likely that Halifax gave Ms N a 
choice about buying PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms N, so it had to check  it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Ms N wasnt 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. And she doesnt  seem to have 
had any significant  work  benefits or savings  in case she was off work  sick or lost her job. 
I understand Ms N had other income, such a government benefits,  but those were  needed  
for her other living costs and wouldve given her very limited  cover for her mortgage. It 
wouldve been a serious drop in income if Ms N had been without her salary.  Its worth 
bearing in mind that the mortgage  payments  were Ms Ns sole responsibility,  and if she fell 
behind on them she risked losing  her home.  So the PPI couldve really been  useful  for Ms N 
in protecting her home  and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Ms N about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  Ms N wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  The 
policys cost wasnt high,  and if Ms Ns circumstances changed, she couldve cancelled  the 
PPI at any time without  a penalty. So overall, I dont think  that better information was likely to 
have put Ms N off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN98453802Lastly, I understand that Ms N has questioned  when the policy  was cancelled.  I havent seen 
any evidence that it was cancelled at the wrong  time.  But in any case, the complaint Ms N 
brought to our service was about the sale of the PPI, rather than its cancellation, so I havent  
considered this point  in my decision.  If Ms N is concerned about when the PPI was 
cancelled, she may be able to bring  this to Halifax as a separate  complaint, and may then be 
able to ask for our services help as a separate case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint about  the sale of this 
PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845380