K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about four buy orders (USD/CAD currency pairs) placed with FXPRO UK 
Limited (FXPRO) through  two trading accounts  in his name, two through each  account.
background
On 22 February 2018 four orders were placed  through Mr Cs accounts on a quoted  instant 
execution price. However the orders were filled at a higher  price  than the instant execution  
price Mr C says he was quoted.
Mr C complained to FXPRO.  FXPRO confirmed to Mr C that the orders  were filled by way of 
market execution rather than instant execution and thats why they were  filled at a higher 
price. And the reason  they were filled by market  execution  (rather than instant execution) 
was because it was concerned the orders might constitute abusive trading.
Unhappy with FXPROs response Mr C referred  a complaint to our service.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. In summary he said he was 
satisfied that FXPRO  was entitled  to conclude  that the four orders might constitute abusive  
trading and because of this it was entitled  to fill them at the price it did, this being market  
execution price rather than instant execution price.
Mr C didnt agree and so the matter has been  passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I dont have 
much to add to what the adjudicator has already said. I can also confirm that in deciding  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint Ive had regard, amongst 
other things,  to the regulators rules, guidance and standards.
Having considered the evidence FXPRO  has provided, Im satisfied that it was entitled  to 
conclude that the four orders might constitute  abusive trading. And because of this Im 
satisfied it was entitled, as its order execution policy allows, to fill them by market  execution 
rather than instant execution.
I appreciate that Mr C would like sight of the evidence provided by FXPRO. But this 
evidence contains  details of other clients and therefore cant  be shared. But I can assure 
Mr C that Ive considered  this evidence very carefully. 
Im also satisfied that Mr C has been  given  sufficient opportunity to provide documentary  
evidence to counter  what FXPRO has provided  our service, including documentary  evidence 
pertaining to the IP address and virtual  personal  server he was using at the relevant time, 
but he hasnt done so.
So in summary Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this case  FXPRO did 
nothing wrong  in filling Mr Cs four orders in the manner that it did.
Ref: DRN99850902my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr C doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
FXPRO UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9985090