K820x#14complaint
P, a firm of loss adjusters, acts for Mr N. He is unhappy that Society of Lloyds wont pay his 
claim under his landlord unoccupied property  policy  in respect  of an escape of water in the 
insured property, which consists of a block  of flats.
background
In 2015 Mr N took out an unoccupied policy with Lloyds in his sole name, in respect  of a 
property he said he owned  with three  other partners. In August 2017 he made  a claim on the 
policy in respect of an escape  of water which had caused damage to a number of the flats in 
the insured property.
The circumstances of Mr Ns purchase  were that in November 2013 his three  partners had 
completed the purchase of the property  which theyd bought  at auction. The solicitor  who 
acted made  a statement that in February 2014 Mr N and the other three partners had 
executed a transfer into the names  of all four parties.  He said that the initial  application to 
register the transfer fell into difficulties because  the local authority  had to give its consent.  
The sellers  solicitors failed to co-operate and the matter fell into limbo for some 
considerable time. The registration of the title into all four names  was completed in January 
2018, ie after the claim was submitted.
After a full investigation of the circumstances Lloyds declined the claim and voided the 
policy back to its start.  It said that Mr N hadnt  shown  that he had an insurable interest in the 
property at the date of the claim. It wasnt satisfied that any transfer into Mr Ns name  had 
taken place until after the claim was made. At that stage no evidence of a written contract, 
deed of transfer  or rejected land registry application  had been produced.  The February 2014 
transfer had been mislaid.  Lloyds refunded all the premiums.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Lloyds had acted reasonably. On the 
basis of the evidence that had been produced she couldnt say that Mr N had shown he had 
an insurable interest in the property at the time of the claim.
In response P produced  a further  statement from the solicitor  concerned.  He advised that the 
original transfer had been found which he produced. He further said that the parties  had 
signed the transfer at his office in February  2014  and that he had received a payment from 
Mr N into client  account. P also showed us an opinion from the managing director  of a firm of 
legal case managers  and expert  witness report writers for claims related  to the 
Land Registration Act. He said Mr N had an equitable interest in the property from the 
signing of the deed so had an insurable  interest.
Our investigator pointed  out that the transfer wasnt  dated and maintained her view.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should advise  that this service acts as an alternative dispute resolution  service to resolve 
disputes informally. We arent in a position  to resolve legal  issues  in the same way that a 
Ref: DRN93359132court will eg we cant take evidence on oath or cross-examine witnesses.. What  I have  to be 
concerned with is whether, on the information  it had, Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr Ns assertion that he has an insurable interest in the property goes back to the meeting in 
February 2014 when,  the solicitor says the parties met to sign a transfer from the three  
names into four names, Mr N being  the fourth  party. I havent  seen  any contract nor any 
evidence from the other  three parties involved.  I think the best that can be said is that there 
was a verbal agreement  between  the parties  that Mr N would own a share of the land. He 
appears to have transferred the money for his share into the solicitors  client account,  though  
I havent been shown any evidence as to how and when those funds were disbursed.
The evidence (including the expert opinion  sought by P) turns on the fact that a deed was 
said to be executed in February 2014.  Clearly  a transfer deed was signed  but it wasnt dated 
and I assume not sent to the land registry for registration (otherwise it would have been sent 
back). There  was a transfer deed in November 2013  transferring the land from the original 
seller to the original  three owners   it is referred to in the land registry  entries.  But the land 
register doesnt refer to a deed dated  February 2014. The date of registration is in January 
2018 and it doesnt appear  that the signed  deed  from February  2014  was ever used. And the 
transfer from three to four partners, wasnt noted on the register. No doubt it wasn't thought 
necessary. But we are left with an undated  transfer and no other documentary  evidence of a 
contract or other such evidence.
Mr N cant make a claim as the sole policyholder when he doesnt  have an insurable interest. 
And the best I can say from the evidence  is that there was an intention  to transfer an interest  
in the property to Mr N but it wasnt carried  out until after the claim arose.
So I dont  think that Mr N has been able to show that he had an insurable  interest  in the 
property at the time of the claim. So from the evidence Lloyds acted reasonably in declining  
the claim and voiding  the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9335913