K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a packaged bank account called an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as 
Halifax.
background
Mrs M took out an URCA in September  2011  which incurred a monthly fee. Mrs M says she 
chose to take out the URCA because Bank of Scotland  did not tell her that fee free accounts  
with debit cards were available.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland  didnt mis-
sell the URCA. Mrs M disagrees so the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ms complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mrs M was aware the URCA was optional and 
whether she was given  a clear choice in out taking the account. 
Mrs M had previously had a fee free account with Bank of Scotland.  She says that her fee 
free account  didnt  provide her with a debit card and she thought the only way she could get 
a debit card was by paying for an account.
But fee free accounts with debit cards  were widely advertised at the time by Bank of 
Scotland and other banks and financial institutions. So I think  its more  likely than not that 
she knew that they were  available  to her. Bank  of Scotland  has also provided a copy  of the 
getting started guide for the URCA it says it gave her which refers to other  types of 
accounts being available. And Bank  of Scotland has provided a copy  of Mrs Ms application  
form for the URCA which  she has signed  and dated where she acknowledges she has 
received the information about  the URCA including the getting started guide.
So I dont  think I can reasonably say that Mrs M wasnt aware she had a choice  or didnt 
choose to take out the URCA as I would need  to uphold her complaint  on this point.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt  advise  Mrs M to take out the policy.  Mrs M says it did.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of her needs or circumstances  to show 
that Bank  of Scotland did advise Mrs M to take out the URCA. I think  its more  likely than not 
that Bank  of Scotland provided a substantial  explanation of the accounts benefits as it was 
trying to sell the URCA to her. And it may have  felt to Mrs M as though  Bank of Scotland  was 
saying the URCA was a good idea. But this is not the same as advising her or making a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Bank  of Scotlands 
sales in this period,  I think its more  likely  than not that Bank  of Scotland  sold the URCA to 
Mrs M on an information only basis.
Ref: DRN90168552So, Bank of Scotland only needed  to provide  Mrs M with sufficient  information  about the 
URCA to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits  including worldwide travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, home  emergency cover and mobile phone insurance.  And it offered better 
overdraft facilities including a fee free overdraft of up to £300. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or what information it gave Mrs M about the URCA. 
But, as Ive said above, I think its likely Bank  of Scotland  wouldve described  the URCA to 
her at some length as it was trying to sell the account to her. And Mrs M has signed  a form 
acknowledging receipt of the information  about  the account. 
I also think the URCA would have been of interest to Mrs M. I say this because  Bank  of 
Scotland has provided evidence that she had a mobile phone and access  to a car. She was 
immediately covered for any car journey whether she was the owner  or driver of the car or 
not. And she was immediately covered  for home emergencies.  I can see from her account 
records that she occasionally ran an overdraft so she wouldve expected  to benefit from the 
better overdraft facility too.
So in my view I think  Mrs M knew she had a choice whether to take out the URCA or not and 
she chose to do so. I think  the URCA was of interest  to her and there was no information  
that Mrs M didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put her off taking it 
out. And I dont think Mrs M lost out as a result of anything Bank of Scotland  may have done 
wrong when it sold her the URCA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9016855