K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that Nationwide Building  Society did not do enough to help him when he 
was the victim of a scam.
background
On 29 December 2018, Mr S bought a van on an online  auction  website, and sent a 
payment of £3,500 through what he thought was Paypal. When Mr S didnt receive the van 
as expected, he realised that hed sent the funds to a scammer. He made  Nationwide aware  
that hed been the victim  of a scam  and they raised  a scam complaint on his behalf on         
15 January 2019.  Mr S hadnt sent the payment through Paypal as he thought  and had 
instead sent it as a transfer via online banking. Nationwide contacted  the beneficiary bank 
straight away, but unfortunately, they responded to say none  of his funds remained, so 
nothing could be recovered.   
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator  looked  
into his complaint and felt that Nationwide had acted  reasonably when it allowed the 
payment of £3,500 to leave his account. And that it had acted quickly to try and recover  his 
funds. Mr S disagreed, in particular he felt that the payment was unusual  and should have 
been picked up by Nationwide for further  checks. 
Because the case could not be resolved informally, its been  passed to me to review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a banks expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And Ive 
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
Ref: DRN92903512identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr S when he transferred the payment of £3,500 , or whether it should have done more  
than it did. 
Ive looked over Mr Ss statements for the months  leading up to the payment  in question. I 
can see that he did make other  online transfers,  so I cant  see the payment type was 
particularly unusual. But I do agree that the amount was larger than he normally  transfers. 
Having said this, I dont  think this particular increase alone is enough to say Nationwide  
should have treated the transfer  as suspicious and asked additional questions.  Mr S has 
also mentioned  that the recipient bank was unusual. While  it isnt one of the major banks 
used within  the UK, I dont  think this means any transfers sent to them should be treated  as 
suspicious. On balance, having  considered Mr Ss account activity in general, I dont think  
Nationwide failed in its obligations when it didnt treat the transfer  as suspicious. So, I think  it 
acted reasonably when it processed  the payment without further checks. 
Mr S contacted Nationwide on 15 January 2019 to report the scam. From what I can see, it 
appears that Nationwide contacted the beneficiary bank almost immediately to request  a 
return of Mr Ss funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to say that none  of Mr 
Ss funds  remained.  I have seen evidence showing that all of Mr Ss funds  were  removed 
from the beneficiary account by 7 January, over a week before he notified Nationwide  of the 
scam. So, I think Nationwide  did all it could  in the circumstances to try and recover Mr Ss 
funds. 
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Nationwide,  and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Nationwide could do to help Mr S at that stage.
Ref: DRN92903513Its important to recognise that Mr S has been the victim of a scam and Im sorry hes had to 
go through this experience. Having carefully  considered all the information available  to me, I 
think Nationwides decision not to refund Mr S in this instance is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ss instruction to make  the payment and I 
havent seen any reason  why it shouldnt have done  this. And I think it took appropriate steps  
to try and recover the funds once it was notified  of the scam. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9290351