K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Zopa Limited  irresponsibly sold him two personal loans he could not 
afford, and then sold them to a third party.
background 
Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his father.
In November 2014 Mr M took out a peer-to-peer  loan brokered by Zopa  and administered  on 
Zopas behalf by ARC. This loan was for £5,000  and was for a term of two years. Before that 
term ended, in June 2016 Mr M applied for and received a second loan, this time for £10,000 
for five years. Shortly after that, he began to miss payments on both loans. He settled the 
first loan by the end of 2016,  but the second loan was eventually  defaulted in 2017 and sold 
to a third party in 2018.
After the decision  to sell the loan had been  made, but before it could be implemented, 
Mr Ms father discovered  what had happened. He spoke  to ARC (with his sons  authority) 
and told them that Mr M had mental  health issues. However ARC did not pass  this 
information on to Zopa  until after the loan had been  sold. Mr Ms father  complained on 
Mr Ms behalf that the debt should  not have been sold in the first place, and that once Zopa 
was made  aware  of Mr Ms circumstances it should have immediately bought  the debt back, 
but instead Zopa had claimed  this was impossible. He also complained  that both debts had 
been unaffordable, and that Zopa  would have  realised  this if it had carried  out proper 
affordability checks. When Zopa did not agree, Mr Ms father brought this complaint  to our 
Service. He argued that it was illegal  to sell the debt. He also objected to ARC continuing to 
pursue the debt after it was sold. He complained about how long it took Zopa  to address his 
concerns, and that this was stressful for him, for his wife, and for his son.
Zopa said it hadnt known about Mr Ms mental health issues  until ARC had told it, after it 
had already sold the loan.  It had carried out credit checks, and in 2014 it had checked his 
bank statements to verify his income.  In 2016, when Mr M had declared  that his income  had 
increased considerably, Zopa had used his old, lower  income  as the basis for its 
calculations, and had still found that he could afford  the loan. (His father  complains that Zopa 
failed to verify that Mr M was still employed.)  It did not agree  that it had mis-sold the loans, 
or that it should  have realised that Mr M would struggle to afford them.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint about mis-selling the loans. She said that 
lenders are generally  entitled to believe what their customers  tell them, except  where they 
are told something which seems unlikely or which should prompt further questioning. (Mr Ms 
father argues that an example of this was when Mr M told Zopa that he was a director  of a 
particular company, but various evidence showed that he was actually director  of another  
company.) However, she did uphold the complaint about selling the loan, since industry 
guidelines said that a loan should  not be sold if the lender knows  that the customer has 
mental health issues, and as ARC  had been acting as Zopas agent, it didnt matter  that 
Zopa hadnt known.  ARC had known, and should have cancelled the sale.  So she 
recommended that Zopa buy the loan back, and also pay Mr M £100  for the delays in 
responding to his complaint.
Zopa agreed  with that opinion, but Mr Ms father  did not. He said that as people with mental 
health issues rarely volunteer this information, Zopa should always  ask for evidence to 
support what it is told. The bank statements provided in 2014  showed that Mr Ms annual  
Ref: DRN94993122income was only £18,700,  not the £45,000  hed claimed. In 2016 Zopa had relied on two 
bank statements 13 months apart,  but three  consecutive statements would have revealed 
that his average  monthly income was lower than Mr M had said it was. He said it was 
implausible that someone who was really earning  £80,000 a year (as Mr M had claimed  in 
2016) would need to take out two loans for £10,000  (this is a reference to a third loan from 
another lender, taken out shortly before the second  Zopa loan). He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  this case. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, I have not considered the 
complaint about  the DSARs because I think that is a matter  best left to the ICO.
I uphold the complaint about selling the loan, for the same reasons as our investigator gave. 
Although Zopa didnt  know  about Mr Ms mental health, its agent  did and that is enough. 
Selling a loan once it is known that a customer has mental health problems is contrary to the 
Standards of Lending Practice . And Zopa should not have said it was impossible to buy the 
loan back, once it knew.
However, I cannot compensate Mr Ms parents for any stress or inconvenience caused  to 
them by this, or by any delay in Zopas  handling of this complaint. This is because  under the 
rules (made  by the FCA) which set out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
they are not eligible  complainants  in their own right.  I can only award compensation to Mr M, 
since only he was Zopas customer in relation to the loans  this complaint is about. I think that 
£100 is in line with the level of compensation this Service would typically  award for this 
issue, and is fair.
I turn to the complaint about mis-selling the 2014  loan. At the time,  the relevant guidelines 
issued by the FCA said:1
it is not generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely  for its assessment of the 
customer's income  and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. [Paragraph CONC  5.3.1(4)(b).]
And:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful in completing the application [CONC 5.3.7]
It follows that a lender  is entitled to believe what its customers tell it, provided that it still 
takes proportionate steps to verify their income and expenditure, and that there  are no 
reasonable grounds to suspect that they have not been truthful.
Mr M told Zopa that £2,000 of the loan was to pay off credit card debts, which would actually  
save him money in the long run, since the interest on credit  cards would have been more  
costly than this loan. Zopa checked  Mr Ms credit  file, and found  that he was not behind  on 
paying any of his creditors. Zopa refused  to accept a payslip Mr M had provided, because it 
didnt have his name  on it. It asked  for his bank  statements instead. I think that these were 
responsible and proportionate  checks.
1 https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/CONC/5/3.html?date=2014-11-18&timeline=True
Ref: DRN94993123The statements  supplied covered a period of two and a half months, from September  to mid-
November 2014.  Due to the passage  of time, these are no longer  available, so I cant see 
what Zopa relied on, or evaluate  Mr Ms claim that they would have shown that Mr M was 
only earning £18,700. But there  is a note in Zopas records about the lending decision, which 
says that the bank  statement for September showed  a salary payment to Mr Ms account  of 
£4,000. That note goes on to say assume some maybe commission based (sic). That 
implies that the salary  payments  in October  and November were less than the one in 
September, but since I havent seen the statements I have no way of knowing how much  
less.
Mr M had declared an annual income of £45,000.  Zopa adjusted this to a monthly  income of 
about £2,845 (which  corresponds to about  three quarters of his gross annual income, so 
I assume that this is meant to be net of income tax). Based  on that figure  (and his 
outgoings), Zopa had calculated his disposable income  to be £2,080 a month. This was 
clearly more than enough  to cover the loan repayments, which  were  £235 a month. That 
allows for a margin of error of £530 in the monthly  income figure. I dont know  whether the 
difference between  Mr Ms income in September 2014, and his income in either of the 
following two months,  exceeded that figure  or not. So I cant  say that, based  on the bank 
statements, Zopa had reasonable  grounds to suspect that he had lied about his income.
Mr Ms father has pointed out that the name  of the employer Mr M provided  in his loan 
application was incorrect, and that this should have served as a warning to Zopa. He says 
that a simple search of the Companies  House website would have shown that Mr M was 
actually the director  of another company with a completely different name, and that it was a 
new company, having only been  founded  in June  2014. However, while  I agree that this did 
merit further investigation, that did not necessarily have to consist  of checking  with 
Companies House.  Instead, Zopa searched  the internet and found a website for a company 
with a very similar name, which listed Mr M (or at least someone with the same name as 
him) as a director. Zopa therefore assumed  that the wrong  company  name  was just an 
innocent mistake.
To maintain Mr Ms anonymity, I wont give the names of these  companies.  Instead I will 
describe the nature of the difference between the names. The name on the loan application  
consisted of three initials. The name of the company  Zopa found consisted  of the same first 
and third initials, but with an ampersand between  them instead of the second initial. So I can 
see why Zopa thought  this was not untoward, and stopped its investigation  when it did. It is 
unfortunate that the conclusion Zopa came to was wrong, but I dont agree that it was arrived  
at by negligence.
For all of these reasons, I am not persuaded that the 2014 loan was mis-sold.
I turn to the 2016 loan application. At that time, Mr M had made all of his payments under the 
2014 loan, so his payment history was good. Zopa checked his credit  file again, and found 
that he still had a good financial record. Since Mr M reported that he was working in the 
same job and at the same  company, Zopa  waived its usual employment check  (but used his 
2014 salary instead  of the higher salary he now claimed to have). Since it was only 17 
months since the first loan, I dont think that was unreasonable. Zopa  had no reason to 
suspect that what  he had told it was untrue, and under  the rules  it was only obliged  to verify 
what Mr M told it about his income and expenditure, not about  his employment history.
Ref: DRN94993124Mr M had recently taken out another loan with another lender, so this was going to be his 
third loan. This Zopa  loan application was for £10,000, and the other  loan was for £10,440. 
Zopa took that loan into account, and calculated Mr Ms disposable  income to be just short of 
£1,000 a month. His loan repayments were  to be £230 a month,  so the loan seemed to be 
affordable.
As evidence  of income, Mr M provided  bank  statements for two months. They showed salary  
payments of about  £5,200  and £7,800.  But this time they were not for consecutive months, 
but were 13 months  apart. His father argues  that Zopa should have asked for statements for 
three consecutive months, because  this would have shown that Mr Ms average  income  was 
far less than these two statements  suggested.
The FCAs guidelines  in 2016 said that the information lenders should  rely on may  
include some  or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.  [CONC 5.2.4(3)]
The rules  and guidelines did not prescribe what  form evidence  of income should take, and 
left a significant margin of discretion to lenders to decide for themselves how much 
evidence, and what kind of evidence, to accept. So I think Zopa was entitled  to rely on the 
two bank statements  that were provided  to it, along with his payment history on the original 
loan and checking his credit file. I think that was enough.  I dont think  that a person with a 
salary of £80,000 taking  out two loans of around £10,000 is so unusual  that it should  arouse  
suspicion. A person may earn that much and still not have enough savings to make a large  
purchase (such as buying a car). So I have concluded that the 2016  loan was not mis-sold.
Before I finish, I will address  a question that Mr Ms father asked about two entries in Zopas 
records which state that the loans had been  assigned to Zopa after falling into arrears.  He 
has questioned  this, not unreasonably, because he thought  the loans had already been with 
Zopa in the first place. The answer is to be found in clauses 16 and 24 of the Loan 
Conditions  Vehicle Financing section of the loan contract (see pages 13 and 16 of the 53-
page document). Clause 16(1)(b) says:
We may freely transfer  all of our future rights,  title, interest and obligations  
to  Zopa if we terminate this Loan Contract in accordance with clause 8.
(Clause 8 is about  missing payments.) Clause 24 explains who we refers to:
 We means the individual Lender  who is advancing the credit 
On the next page there is a long list of individual lenders. So Mr Ms contract was with each 
of them.  (See also the top of page 1 of the loan contract, in the section headed Parties.)
ARC managed the loan on the lenders behalf. When  the contract was terminated under 
clause 8, ARC assigned  the loan to Zopa (the broker). I am satisfied  that the loan was 
properly assigned to Zopa, because Mr M consented to this when he agreed to the loan 
contract.
Ref: DRN94993125my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M (or his father 
on his behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 23 October 2020. But if we dont hear 
from him, then we will presume that he rejects  it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9499312