K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr S was given four loans by QuickQuid between  May and October 2015. Each of the four 
loans was repayable over two or three months. A summary of Mr Ss borrowing from 
QuickQuid is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan  Amount Highest  
repayment
1 08/05/2015 01/07/2015 £200 £248
2 02/07/2015 28/08/2015 £350 £439.60
3 12/09/2015 19/09/2015 £200 £248
4 22/10/2015 29/01/2016 £300 £369.60
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  QuickQuid  
had been wrong  to give the first loan to Mr S. But she thought that the information  QuickQuid 
had gathered should have  shown that the remaining three loans were unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr S. So she asked QuickQuid to pay Mr S some  compensation.
QuickQuid didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr S accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN90642532the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Before lending to Mr S, QuickQuid asked  him for details  of his income, and his normal  
monthly expenditure. It then used this information, together with data it gathered  from other 
sources such as his credit file, to calculate  what it termed  his estimated disposable  income 
(EDI). This was the amount that QuickQuid thought Mr S could afford  to spend each month 
repaying his borrowing.
Based on what Mr S had said about  his income,  expenditure, and the EDI that QuickQuid 
had calculated, I think the repayments he needed to make on the first loan would have 
appeared affordable. So given what was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate  for QuickQuid to 
ask him for the amount of information that might  be needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr S provided or the information QuickQuid 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I dont  think  QuickQuid was wrong to give the first loan to Mr S.
A day after repaying his first loan, Mr S asked  to borrow again. When he took the second 
loan Mr S agreed to repay it in two instalments.  By far the largest instalment was due eight 
weeks later.  Quick Quid says Mr S could save some disposable income  at the start of that 
period to put towards his final repayment. So it is effectively saying that I should consider the 
average repayment Mr S needed to make each  month on his loan.
Ref: DRN90642533But I dont agree that was reasonable here.  I dont  think  there  is anything  in the information 
declared by Mr S that should have given  Quick Quid any confidence  that he was in a position 
to save money each  month  or indeed that what hed said about his disposable income was 
likely to be entirely accurate.
Mr S had just eight weeks before he needed to make  the final repayment. And that final 
repayment was in excess of the EDI that Quick Quid had calculated.  By its own calculations,  
Mr S did not have enough disposable  income in which to meet  this repayment.  So I dont think  
it was reasonable  for Quick Quid to conclude  that Mr S could have repaid  this loan in a 
sustainable manner.
Mr S applied for his third loan two weeks later, and again agreed to repay this loan over 2 
repayments with the second  instalment being a lot higher than the first. QuickQuid had carried 
out a credit check when  it arranged  this loan and had found  an additional amount of credit  that 
it considered along  with what Mr S had declared.  When these amounts are added  together,     
Mr S again  did not have  enough disposable income  to meet  the second repayment.  This also 
occurred for loan 4 as well. 
So with what  I have  just said in mind, I dont think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to conclude 
that loans 2-4 were  sustainably affordable  for Mr S. It follows that I dont think QuickQuid 
should have given him loans 2-4 and so it needs to put things right.
putting things right
I dont think QuickQuid should have agreed  to lend to Mr S loans 2-4. So QuickQuid should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to loans 2-4. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to loans 2-4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ss complaint and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC to 
put things right as detailed above. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9064253