K820x#14complaint
Ms A says PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
This decision concerns  one payday  loan Ms A took from Mr Lender in January 2012.  
The loan was for £300, with a single repayment of £397.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought Mr Lender  had 
carried out adequate checks before lending to Ms A and that it hadnt  lent irresponsibly. 
Ms A didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Ms As case. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Ms As income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
Id like to start by saying  Im aware Ms A disputes the number of loans she had with 
Mr Lender. To date,  Ms A hasnt been  able to provide evidence she had more  than one loan.  
So Im unable to consider  anything other  than the loan of January 2012.
Before approving the loan Mr Lender obtained information about Ms As income and carried  
out a credit check.  The credit check shows Ms A had no defaults  in the last three years and 
no outstanding  short-term loans.
Looking at Ms As income, the repayment  amount and all the other circumstances, I dont 
think Mr Lender  had reason to believe the loan wouldnt  be affordable for Ms A. I do think  
Mr Lender ought to have  asked Ms A about  some of her essential  living  costs  (like rent and 
regular bills). But I think its unlikely asking  for this sort of information wouldve suggested the 
loan wasnt affordable.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Ive noted that Ms A has said Mr Lender didnt properly respond to a subject access  request 
(SAR). Mr Lender  has told this service it did respond. If Ms A feels  that Mr Lender  still hasnt  
correctly deal with her SAR, she may wish to contact the Information Commissioners  Office.
Ref: DRN95645212my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms As complaint  against PDL Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9564521