K822xcomplaint
Mrs T has complained about her home  insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. She 
thinks its handled her subsidence claim badly; which has been  on-going  since  2014.
background 
Mrs T made a claim in 2014 when she noted damage to her porch.  There  were problems 
from the outset and in 2016 Lloyds provided  a final response in relation to Mrs Ts recent  
complaint to it. Mrs T accepted its response  and didnt raise  a complaint to this service at 
that time.
Following that letter,  work  continued on reinstating the porch.  Work had to be done in the 
hallway to lift some asbestos tiles. No protection was used by the contractor though and 
Mrs T had to clean up after them, hoovering  the debris.
Once the porch was completed it was found  to have  been built so poorly it needed  taking 
down and doing again. This process seemed  to run smoothly but shortly  after its completion  
Mrs T noticed water pooling on the floor and that the party wall was damp. Lloyds agreed to 
investigate the problem and initially seemed to accept that the front door it had installed was 
causing the water ingress. But after several months  of inactivity  Lloyds told Mrs T that the 
water ingress was something  shed have to resolve  herself. Mrs T felt this was unfair  and 
challenged Lloyds.
On 23 May 2018 Lloyds  issued another final response letter to Mrs T. In the letter  Lloyds 
apologised for the level of service it had offered during the claim. It noted that the porch  had 
taken longer than it should have done  to complete and that the remaining snagging issues 
could have been rectified sooner. It said it would  arrange for an engineer to come out and 
re-assess the water ingress  issue. Lloyds  also offered £1,000 compensation for the upset it 
had caused Mrs T since the point  of its previous response in July 2016. 
Mrs T remained unhappy and particularly noted  that in its letter Lloyds hadnt accepted the 
upset caused  to her when  the asbestos  was removed. She complained  to this service.
Our adjudicator noted everything  Mrs T had been through, including  bereavement in 2016. 
He accepted that Mrs T was a vulnerable customer,  with a relatively simple claim that should 
have been resolved a long-time ago. Having considered everything shed been through 
since July 2016,  he felt Lloyds should pay a total of £2,000 compensation.
Lloyds initially disagreed but said it would  offer £1,500. It then agreed to the suggested  
£2,000. Mrs T though  remained  dissatisfied. She advised that the porch was still not 
resolved and recent evidence showed  Lloyds had acted callously and unprofessionally when 
the damp problems  with the porch were raised. All done with a view to it avoiding further 
liability. Mrs T also pointed out that the asbestos  was still a huge concern for her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93646732Im disappointed to see that the issue with the porch  remains  unresolved. However, I cant  
go beyond the May 2018 response  when  looking  at Mrs Ts current complaint. I hope though 
that Lloyds resolves  the issue shortly without giving  Mrs T need to raise a further complaint 
to this service. 
Re-building a porch should be a simple  matter. The claim should have been  completed  long 
before the May 2018 response.  That was nearly  two years of activity  (and inactivity)  since  
Lloyds previous final response  was issued. I accept that even  to have what  should  have  
been a relatively  simple  re-build, on-going for that length of time was significantly distressing 
as well as inconvenient for Mrs T. And especially at a time when she was grieving.
I also accept that Mrs T has been  worried a lot about the asbestos incident. I can understand 
her concern  but I think its relevant that the air quality was checked the following day and 
found to be clear of contaminants.  It may well be that is because Mrs T tidied up, but that 
also means that if she was exposed  to contaminants, this was only for a short time. Im also 
mindful that I havent seen any evidence that clearly shows Mrs T has likely been put at risk 
by Lloyds actions.  So I cant award compensation to her on that basis. 
Nevertheless Lloyds  has never really  responded properly  to Mrs Ts concerns or sought to 
offer her any reassurances beyond  stating that the air quality was tested and found to be 
fine. I think it could  have done  more  and if it had then at least  some of Mrs Ts upset and 
worry could have been avoided. And, of course, its contractor could have taken more care in 
the first place when  the tiles were being removed. 
Mrs T was clearly  disheartened when,  having  had the poorly reinstated  porch re-built  
which was a process she felt had generally gone well  she found  the water  ingress.  She 
had clearly been expecting that the efficiently completed  re-build meant the long running 
claim was drawing to an end. But finding the water leak started off a whole new period of 
dispute with Lloyds and all that went with that; communicating, waiting, challenging, stress 
and worry. 
Not least when Lloyds  began denying liability for the problem. Given it had re-built the entire  
porch I can understand why Mrs T was so upset at its suggestion that the problem wasnt  
anything for it to resolve. Whilst  Lloyds quickly retracted part of that denial (accepting that 
the water  on the floor was likely related  to the door it had fitted),  it maintained that the damp  
wall was due to a problem with Mrs Ts neighbours home. That issue  is now under review  by 
Lloyds but the significant  distress Mrs T suffered to the point  of it offering to do that in in its 
May 2018 letter is clear.
Im satisfied that a total of £2,000 compensation is fairly and reasonably  due to Mrs T. This 
award is made to compensate her for the upset shes been caused  by Lloyds failures 
between July 2016 and 23 May 2018. It isnt designed to punish  Lloyds or protect  others, or 
even Mrs T, from suffering due to its claims handling  in the future. Nor is the level of award 
influenced by the reason behind the actions of Lloyds that caused the upset for Mrs T. 
Whether its actions were deliberate or careless  the upset suffered by Mrs T was the same.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to pay Mrs T 
£2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her by handling her 
subsidence claim poorly between July 2016  and 23 May 2018.
Ref: DRN93646733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9364673