K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains about short term loans  she took out with Casheuronet UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. Mrs N says these  loans  were unaffordable so QuickQuid shouldnt have given 
them to her. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision I sent in February 
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mrs Ns representatives 
havent provided me with any additional  information.  However,  QuickQuid did provide us 
some additional  comments.
Ive carefully considered  everything QuickQuid has told us. In summary it says;
QuickQuid doesnt think  it is fair that the total repayment figure is used when 
assessing irresponsible lending  complaints.
Given the evidence  supplied in the provisional  decision, QuickQuid accepted  that 
Mrs N was left with no disposable income (after  her repayments)  on the flex credit 
account (loan 2). 
For loans 7  9 there were breaks  of up to 69 days between these loans and loan 8 
was repaid early, which  saved Mrs N money  on her interest  repayments. 
Loans 7 and 8 were  two period loans while loan 9 was due to be repaid over 3 
periods. And based on QuickQuids affordability  assessment, Mrs N could afford 
these loans.
QuickQuid also provided  us with a 13 page  document which outlined its lending 
processes at the time these loans were approved. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so, Im still of the 
opinion that QuickQuid shouldnt have given  Mrs N some of the loans that it gave her. 
Firstly, Im a little surprised QuickQuid has made the argument about using only using the 
interest figure when  assessing the irresponsible lending. When a consumer borrows  money 
it isnt just the interest that is due on the repayment  date. Instead, it is the principal plus the 
interest  and this is the amount that the consumer must find in order to successfully repay 
their loan. So I consider  it reasonable that Ive used the total amount due on the repayment  
date when thinking about whether the checks went far enough.  
It appears from QuickQuids response  that it has accepted my findings that the flex credit 
account (loan 2) wasnt affordable for Mrs N. So I dont intend  to comment  on this any 
further. 
But QuickQuid has made a number of points  about  loans 7 - 9, which  are the ones that I 
didnt think QuickQuid shouldve provided. 
Ref: DRN96806262Generally, if a consumer  is able to successfully repay a loan either on time or earlier than set 
out in the loan agreement, I dont think  this automatically meant they have managed  to repay  
the loan without undue difficulty.  For example, they may have had to borrow  from elsewhere  
in order to meet their loan repayments  or they may have had to go without some day to day 
essentials. 
They may also be left in the situation  where they have to borrow  again from the same lender 
because repaying  the previous loan left a gap in their available  funds. So it therefore follows 
that I wouldnt automatically reject Mrs Ns complaint about loan 8 because it was repaid 
early.
In addition to this, when the loan was approved, QuickQuid couldve reasonably expected  for 
Mrs N to stick to the terms of the credit agreement and pay the loan on time.  So the fact that 
she may have saved some money  on the amount of interest she was due to pay by 
repaying the loan early,  doesnt form part of my thinking as to whether QuickQuid carried  out 
sufficient checks to be able to say that Mrs N would be able to sustainably repay this loan. 
As for the gaps in lending  Quick Quid has pointed out, I accept that where there  is a period 
of time between someone repaying  a loan and applying for another one, for example the gap 
of 69 days between Mrs N repaying  loan 7 and taking loan 8. It might be reasonable to 
conclude that their immediate funding shortfall  had been met and that they were  not relying 
on high-cost short-term credit to meet an ongoing  need. 
However, I dont think there  is an absolute  figure  for the length  of gap that signifies  a 
dependency on such credit, or one that signifies a lack of dependency. I am likely  to view a 
gap of a few days or weeks differently  to a gap of a year. But my conclusions about what  a 
gap might signify are based  on Mrs Ns individual circumstances as well as her lending 
relationship with QuickQuid. And in the circumstances of this case, I dont think those gaps 
were significant enough  for QuickQuid to have  believed a new chain of borrowing had 
started.
When coming to my provisional  findings about loans 7  9 I kept in mind  that these were  
multi-period loans, repayable over either  2 or 3 cycles. But the fact these loans were to be 
paid over more than one pay cycle doesnt  mean Im going to automatically conclude that 
these loans were affordable for Mrs N or that QuickQuids checks  went  far enough.  When 
thinking about these loans, I kept in mind  what the largest contractual  repayment Mrs N was 
required to make for each  loan.  
In addition, while the checks QuickQuid carried out at this time may have shown it that the 
loans 7  9 were  affordable. I dont think,  for the reasons Ive outlined in my provisional  
decision that QuickQuid  shouldve been  relying on the information  Mrs N had provided. 
Instead, taking  into account a number  of factors such as the amount being borrowed and the 
amount of time Mrs N had been  indebted to QuickQuid, I felt the checks QuickQuid ought to 
have carried out needed to go further.  And, for the reasons Ive already explained,  had 
QuickQuid carried out further checks it wouldve likely have found  that these loans werent 
sustainably repayable for Mrs N. 
Finally, Ive also considered the 13 page  document QuickQuid has provided me in response 
to my provisional decision.  This document appears  to be one which is sent to our Service  as 
a matter of course,  on many other  QuickQuid  complaints. It is a generic document which 
doesnt directly address  the points made in my provisional decision.  But instead,  explains 
Ref: DRN96806263why it is of the view that all of its lending decisions were made  responsibly  after March  2015. 
And Ive already addressed that particular point, at some length, in my provisional  decision.   
So having  considered the additional information QuickQuid has given us, and everything I 
saw before making my provisional decision,  I still think QuickQuid was wrong to lend to 
Mrs N. And so to put things right, QuickQuid should  take the following action, which  is in line 
with what I said in my provisional decision.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
To put things right for Mrs N, QuickQuid should;
refund  the interest and charges paid by Mrs N for loan 2 (flex credit account) and 
loans 7  9. 
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ; 
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Ns credit file about these loans
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. 
QuickQuid must give Mrs N a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mrs Ns 
complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Mrs N as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96806264EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs N complains about short  term loans she took out with Casheuronet  UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. Mrs N says these loans were unaffordable so QuickQuid shouldnt have  given them  to 
her. 
background
A summary  of Mrs Ns borrowing - based on the information given to me by QuickQuid can be found  
below;
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment date
1 £100.00 17/09/2013 29/09/2013
£100.00 06/02/2014
£50.00 23/02/2014 2*
£50.00 09/03/201428/03/2014
3 £150.00 16/01/2015 26/03/2015
4 £100.00 18/04/2015 26/06/2015
5 £100.00 17/10/2015 22/11/2015
6 £100.00 22/11/2015 26/11/2015
7 £100.00 14/01/2016 26/02/2016
8 £150.00 05/05/2016 28/05/2016
£100.00 23/07/20169**£75.00 22/08/201631/10/2016
10 £50.00 20/05/2017 30/06/2017
*a revolving or flex credit account
**this loan was refinanced from 1 to 3 repayments. The largest repayment due was £207.55.
Loans 3, 4, 7 and 8 were due to be repaid via two repayments. QuickQuid looked  at Mrs Ns 
complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It told her it had carried out proportionate checks  for all 
of the lending. It said these  checks showed these loans were affordable, Mrs N was creditworthy and 
she wasnt dependent on these loans. So overall, it didnt  think  it was wrong to have lent. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Mrs N and QuickQuid said and they thought Mrs Ns complaint 
should be partially  upheld. The adjudicator thought QuickQuid had carried out proportionate checks  
for loan 1 and the adjudicator also thought that taking into account  the gap in lending proportionate 
checks were also carried out before loan 10 was given. So QuickQuids decision to lend was 
reasonable for these loans.  
The adjudicator thought QuickQuid hadnt carried out proportionate  checks before it agreed to any of 
the other loans. And thinking about what a proportionate check may have looked like  as well as 
what QuickQuid may have  seen she didnt think QuickQuid shouldve given Mrs N loans 2  4, 6 and 
7. 
QuickQuid didnt agree  with our adjudicator. In its response  it made a number  of points,  including:
Mrs Ns credit limit on her flex account was £350 and she never  borrowed up to that limit  the 
length of agreement also meant the repayments were relatively small, 
loan 3 was affordable for Mrs N based on the income  and expenditure  information  she 
declared as well as the significant gap in lending after repaying  loan 2,
Ref: DRN96806265for all remaining loans QuickQuid carried out appropriate and proportionate checks including 
validating Mrs Ns income and expenditure and
QuickQuid provided us with further  information about the affordability assessments it carried 
out on loans approved from 2015. 
So, as no agreements been reached the complaints been passed to me to me to issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive carefully  thought about everything Ive been given, and having 
done so, Im intending to partly uphold  Mrs Ns complaint  and Ive explained my reasons  below. 
QuickQuid was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make checks  to see whether Mrs N could 
afford to pay back each  loan before it lent to her. I agree  with QuickQuid that the guidance in place  at 
the time was not prescriptive  about what checks a lender needed to carry out. But it was clear  about  
the responsibility of the lender to take reasonable  steps to ensure that a borrower  could sustainably  
repay their loans. The Office of Fair Trading  (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance (the guidance in 
place when Mrs N started to borrow from QuickQuid) stated;  
Assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed test which  involves  a creditor assessing a borrowers 
ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, or specific additional credit commitment, in a 
sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties.  
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer 
wouldve been  able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, at the times the first two loans  were approved, 
QuickQuid had to gather  enough information so that it could make an informed decision  on the 
lending. 
Then from loan 3 onwards,  the regulation  of the industry  was passed from the OFT to what  is now the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The OFT guidance  was then updated into the FCAs  rules and 
guidance for lenders  and set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  And this is what Ive 
thought about for all of Mrs Ns remaining  loans. 
The FCAs  Principles  for Business (PRIN) set out the high level standards which  all authorised firms 
are required to comply with. PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
CONC is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and 
guidance specific  to consumer  credit  providers, such as QuickQuid. At the time of these  loans, CONC 
required QuickQuid to take reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet  repayments 
under a regulated  credit  agreement  in a sustainable  manner without  the customer  incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  -  CONC 5.3.1G(2). 
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  defined sustainable as being able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It 
went on to explain  that this means the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So  treating  customers  fairly  in the context of providing  credit meant assessing their ability to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way. And how should lenders  have gone about making these 
assessments?
CONC 5.2.3  G said that 
Ref: DRN96806266The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required  in a given 
case, should  be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customers credit  history,  including  any indications that the customer  is  experiencing  
or has experienced  financial  difficulties;
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in respect of 
other credit agreements,  consumer hire agreements,  regulated  mortgage contracts, 
payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications,  water and other major 
outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial  commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances  which  could  be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer,  in particular  where the firm understands  the customer 
has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects  this to be so because  
the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity  limitation.
CONC 5.2.4G(2)  said that
 A firm should consider  what is appropriate in any particular circumstances  dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk 
of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative  to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.2.4G(3)  said that
A firm should consider  the types and sources of information to use in its  assessment  which  
may, depending on the circumstances,  include some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
It is important to say here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and types  and sources of information to use needed to be 
enough to be able to reasonably assess  the sustainability  of the arrangement for the consumer.  In 
other words the assessment  needed to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit to its satisfaction,  but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the decision to 
lend. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, QuickQuids  assessment of creditworthiness would  likely 
need to be flexible  what is sufficient for one consumer  might not be for another, or indeed what 
might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might  not be so for the same consumer  in 
other circumstances.  
Ref: DRN96806267Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect 
a lender to seek more assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
Quick Quid  has explained  in some detail  how it carried  out its assessment of Mrs Ns loan 
applications. It started by saying that the assessment  was conducted  properly and that by the 1 March 
2015 it had started implanting changes to affordability assessment in June 2014 and all the 
changes were  completed by Feb 28th 2015.  
And it said in response  to our adjudication  [QuickQuid] still in the belief that the checks QuickQuid 
carried out were adequate and sufficient  for the types and amount of credit provided. As such, my 
viewpoint has not changed regarding the loans issued post 2015.  
QuickQuid seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated regulatory  
changes, all loans for all customers granted from 1 March 2015 onwards were granted responsibly.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow  that a firm cannot have  treated any consumer  
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes  that an 
authorised firms regulated activities are always implemented in a way that results in fair outcomes for 
all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service bears  out.1 
QuickQuid says that the checks it conducts at the time of lending loans 3  10 are proportionate in 
every circumstance. And it considers these checks to have been enhanced through  its review. But, as 
Ive explained above, the FCA is not prescriptive about how the relevant  rules  and guidance set out in 
CONC should  be implemented; specifically CONC does not set out how a lender ought to go about its 
affordability assessments.  CONC guidance does say that the assessment that should  be carried out 
is dependent on what is appropriate for both the consumers circumstances and the particulars of the 
loan in question.  So it doesnt follow that a standard way of assessing  loan applications, whatever the 
extent and scope  of it or whatever the type and source of information it uses is automatically  the 
right thing to do for all consumers in all circumstances. And so I cant pre-judge  Mrs Ns complaint 
about irresponsible lending on the basis that the affordability checks  QuickQuid carried out was the 
right thing to do in his case. And Im not planning  to automatically reject her complaint on this basis.
Further to this point, as Ive mentioned, there are also other considerations which this Service  is 
required to take into account  when making determinations  on complaints. As the FCA Handbook sets 
out in the rules  and guidance relevant to dispute handing; 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference  to what  is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable  
in all the circumstances of the case. (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP 3.6.4R goes on to explain that
In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the Ombudsman will 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
1 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN96806268(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
So, Im required to consider  more than the rules and guidance  set out by the regulator in making my 
determination on a complaint. And so I would not be acting  in accordance with my statutory role if I 
only considered the extent to which QuickQuid  complied  with rules  and guidance set out by the FCA 
in my determination. 
Ive kept all of this in mind, when  thinking about whether QuickQuid did what it needed to do before 
agreeing to Mrs Ns loans.
I would also point out that even if consider the checks QuickQuid carried  out werent proportionate,  
that alone  doesnt mean Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. I say this because, its possible,  that 
even if further checks had been carried out by QuickQuid they couldve  shown Mrs N was able to 
afford his loans. So QuickQuid wouldnt have been wrong to lend.
QuickQuid says it carried out credit and affordability checks on each loan it gave.  It says its 
affordability assessment  included a number of variables, including loan repayment history, credit 
scoring and other  third party reports. These checks produce a score which is then used  by QuickQuid 
to determine the size of the loan.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ns full credit report  which she has provided. Its not clear from the checks 
carried out by QuickQuid  what  information it actually  gathered while carrying out its checks. But based 
on what I can see on the credit report, while  I can see some adverse  information, I dont think  
QuickQuid wouldve been alerted to anything to give it cause  for concern. So I dont think the credit 
checks alone  wouldve stopped QuickQuid from providing these loans.  
Overall, thinking about what QuickQuid says and based on the information  Ive seen  I dont think it 
was right to have given Mrs N some of the loans it approved. And Ive explained  why below.
loan 1
Before the first loan was approved QuickQuid says it asked Mrs N about her income and she declared 
this to be £599. And it doesnt seem that QuickQuid made any other enquires with Mrs N. However,  I 
still think these checks went far enough  because the total amount  that Mrs N needed  to repay  
QuickQuid was relatively modest  compared to her declared income. 
So considering this was the first loan that Mrs N was given and there was nothing  in what QuickQuid 
could see that wouldve  indicated that Mrs N may have had problems repaying  the loan. I dont think  
QuickQuid was wrong to have given  Mrs N this loan.
flex credit account (loan 2)
This flex credit loan allowed Mrs N to drawdown funds up to a set limit and her repayments would  
include interest  and charges  and 10% of either the total principal draw  down or 10% of the most 
recent drawdown. But unlike a payday loan - where the repayments are due usually within one or two 
paydays the balance  of the flex credit account  is repaid over a longer period  of time, for example  10 
months. So because the flex credit account worked differently  to a payday loan  QuickQuid needed  
to take reasonable steps to ensure that Mrs N could  make the repayments when they became  due.
Having looked at the credit  agreement,  I can see QuickQuid gave Mrs N a credit limit of £350. And 
had Mrs N kept to the repayment schedule outlined in the credit agreement then her largest  monthly 
repayment wouldve been £107.24. 
So while I accept what QuickQuid  says about Mrs N not utilising the full amount of available credit  
during the term of the agreement  and this is reflected  in the statement of account which  has been 
provided. But, when it approved the account  it wasnt to know that Mrs N would only, at any one time 
Ref: DRN96806269owe no more than £200 in principal. So, its for this reason, that when thinking  about  what  a 
proportionate check looked like  Ive kept in mind  that Mrs N couldve drawn down to her limit  and 
this is what  QuickQuid needed to assess the risk of Mrs N doing. 
Ive thought about the checks QuickQuid carried  out before agreeing  to the account, and having done 
so, I dont think these checks went far enough,  and Ive explained why below.
Mrs N declared the same monthly income (£599)  as she had done for her first loan. However, Mrs N 
was potentially committed making repayments over a significantly  greater period  of time  so I dont 
think QuickQuid wouldve  been able to determine that Mrs N would be in a position to sustainably  
repay this loan solely based  on her income. I think it wouldve been reasonable of QuickQuid to have 
made some further  enquires  with Mrs N to try and establish what her living costs and regular  financial 
commitments were at the time this account was provided. 
Ive thought about what Mrs N has told us about her circumstances at the time as well as looking at 
her bank statements  in order to gain an understanding of what her living costs  may have been at the 
time this account was approved. And it appears from the information that Ive seen, that had 
QuickQuid carried out proportionate  checks  it wouldnt  have agreed to the account, and Ive explained 
why below.  
At the time the loan was approved, I can see Mrs N had some bills (including phone, TV, insurances 
and utilities) of around £155 per month and what  appears to be a mortgage payment of around £326,  
an account fee of £15 and debt collection repayments of around £15. Even without accounting for 
food and transport costs Mrs N wouldnt have had any disposable income in which to be able to afford  
her repayments to QuickQuid. 
So had QuickQuid carried out proportionate  checks  before agreeing to provide the flex credit account  
I think  it wouldve  likely have found out that Mrs N didnt have enough  disposable income to be able to 
afford the repayments she was committed  to making. 
loan 3
Based on the statement of account QuickQuid has provided, I can see there is a gap of around 10 
months from when Mrs N repaid the flex credit account to when  loan 3 was applied for and given. I 
think this gap is significant enough for QuickQuid to have believed that there may have  been a 
change in Mrs Ns financial  position  and I think it was reasonable for this loan application  to be 
treated afresh.  This meant this becomes the first loan in a new chain of borrowing.  Ive kept this in 
mind when thinking  about  the checks QuickQuid carried  out before approving this loan.  
At the time of taking out this loan Mrs N declared that her income had increased to £1,350 per month. 
And by now QuickQuid had also gathered  some information about Mrs Ns regular outgoings and 
living costs - she declared these to be £1,125 per month. So by now,  QuickQuid says that Mrs N had 
around £225  per month in disposable income. So overall, I think the checks carried out by QuickQuid 
went far enough. But I have  thought carefully  about the arguments both the adjudicator  and 
QuickQuid made in regards to the affordability of this loan.  
When the adjudicator  reviewed this loan, she thought that taking into account  the largest  monthly 
repayment Mrs N would need to make of £173, Mrs N wouldve only been left with around £52. Which 
the adjudicator  didnt think was sufficient to cover unexpected costs.   So the adjudicator  couldnt  
agree that this loan was affordable for Mrs N. 
QuickQuid didnt agree  with the adjudicators assessment about this loan. It noted that the loan was 
due to be repaid via the way of two repayments  so QuickQuid says Mrs N actually had £450 
disposable income.  And in order to repay the total amount due of £207.96 - Mrs N needed to make 
two repayments, one of £34.44 in February 2015 and one of £173.52 in March  2015. And QuickQuid  
thought, based on how the loan was structured that Mrs N could afford  it. 
  
Ref: DRN968062610I have thought  about  what the adjudicator says that QuickQuid wouldve left Mrs N with £52 after 
repaying her largest  repayment which  as Ive mentioned above, the adjudicator  didnt think  was 
sufficient. But in this instance Im prepared  to give QuickQuid the benefit of the doubt  that it wouldve 
reasonably has believed this loan was affordable for Mrs N when thinking about Mrs N to ability  to 
repay the loan over the term agreed.  
After the largest repayment Mrs N wouldve still be left with some disposable income  (£52) but Im 
also minded  that she was left with around £190 after the first repayment. Given the circumstances of 
the loan, I cant reasonably  conclude that QuickQuid was wrong to think  that the loan was 
unaffordable  Mrs N potentially had a total of £450 disposable income in order to repay  around £208 
and there  had been  a ten month  gap since shed  repaid her previous loan. 
Equally at the time the loan was provided, there wasnt anything obvious  - in the information  
QuickQuid gathered - to suggest that it was unreasonable for it to have relied  on it. So I was inclined  
to reach the conclusion that overall and having carefully weighed up everything,  QuickQuid completed 
reasonable and proportionate  checks  before giving loan three to Mrs N.      
loan 4
This loan was taken out shortly after loan 3 was repaid on time and without obvious  problems. Mrs N 
returned for further borrowing but for a smaller  amount - £100. Again, like loan 3 this loan was due to 
be repaid by the way of two repayments  one of £30.40 and a final payment of £124.80  so a total 
cost of the loan of £155.20.  
Mrs N also told QuickQuid that her financial situation remained the same  her income was still 
£1,350 and her monthly outgoings were also around £1,125. This left Mrs N with disposable  income 
each month  of £225 or potentially £450 over the term of the loan.
The adjudicator upheld this loan for the same reasons as they had done for loan 3  that being Mrs N 
wasnt left with sufficient disposable income  after making  her largest repayment.  And QuickQuid also 
disagreed  for the same reasons as it had done so for loan 3. Ive again thought about these  
argument as well as the checks carried out - and overall I think the checks were proportionate. This 
was only Mrs Ns second  loan in this chain of the borrowing, and this loan was smaller than loan 3. 
QuickQuid had also gathered  information from Mrs N that suggested the loan was affordable for her. 
Ive again thought,  about  the repayment  term  and the potential  disposable income Mrs N may have 
had after the largest repayment was made  but for the same  reasons as outlined above, Im satisfied 
that in this instance  QuickQuid  wouldve  likely  thought  the loan was affordable. Based  on the 
information it gathered about Mrs N. Over the term of the agreement  Mrs N had potentially around 
£450 disposable income in order to make total repayments of just over £155. 
I would like to point out that there was a gap of few weeks between Mrs N repaying loan 3 and taking 
out loan 4. And I think this is another reason, why in this case, I think QuickQuids  decision to lend 
was probably  reasonable. 
But, had Mrs N returned for further borrowing  within a few days   I probably wouldnt think  it was 
reasonable to make  a lending decision  on the basis that she would  carry over any surplus month to 
month. Because if she did  then an argument could be made as to why would  there be a need for 
Mrs N to borrow so quickly after repaying  a previous loan. But, as Ive said, I think QuickQuid 
probably made the right decision  to lend in this instance  but this was marginal  and its possible, that 
smaller gaps  may have led to a different outcome. So overall, I dont think  QuickQuid was wrong to 
have given this loan. 
loan 5 
Mrs N again borrowed £100 from QuickQuid but this time she had declared her income had slightly 
increased to £1,450 per month.  However, her monthly expenditure had decreased  from her previous 
Ref: DRN968062611loans down to around £590 a month, so QuickQuid was aware of disposable monthly income  of 
around £860.  And it appears, based on what QuickQuid gathered at the time  Mrs N would be in a 
position to be able to afford to repay the loan.
Unlike Mrs Ns previous  payday loans  which were due to be repaid by the way of two repayments 
this loan was only due to be repaid with one repayment of £122.20. So in this instance,  QuickQuid 
needed to be satisfied that it had carried out proportionate  checks  before agreeing  to this loan  
taking into account the information Mrs N had provided  as well as the single contractual loan 
repayment she was due to make. 
However, based on the information Mrs N had provided QuickQuid, it could see the loan was 
affordable. But, I think QuickQuid may have had cause for concern given  Mrs N had declared a 
decrease in her monthly expenditure of nearly  50%.
Ive considered that after loans  3 and 4 Mrs N didnt  return for further borrowing for a period  of around 
four months   which may have, in this situation explained why there was a decrease in expenditure. I 
think, QuickQuid ought to have been more concerned about the decease, had this loan been granted 
soon after loan 4 had been repaid. 
Ive also need to consider that Mrs N wasnt borrowing any more than she had previously  done - 
£100. So overall, while Ive thought about a decrease in expenditure  Im mindful to believe that 
QuickQuid was still in a position to rely on the information she was providing. 
So thinking  about factors such as the size of the loan repayment compared  to Mrs Ns declared 
income and thinking about her declared  change in expenditure.  I think  QuickQuid carried  out 
proportionate checks and couldve reasonably believed  that the loan was affordable for Mrs N  
based on the information it gathered. So I dont think it was wrong of it to have provided Mrs N with 
this loan.  
loan 6
Mrs N again borrowed £100 from QuickQuid and she also confirmed  that her income and expenditure  
information remained the same as they were when she applied for loan 5. So QuickQuid  was aware 
of disposable monthly income of around £860, in order to meet her contractual  repayment of £124.32. 
So it appears,  based  on what  QuickQuid was told it wouldve thought the loan appeared  affordable for 
Mrs N. 
This was now her fourth loan in this chain of borrowing  and although  the principal sum hadnt 
increased  it seems Mrs N needed to continue to return to QuickQuid regularly in order to borrow 
again. Indeed, this loan was taken out on the same  day that loan 5 had been repaid.  And as Ive 
explained above, QuickQuid  needed to make sure that Mrs N could repay each  loan sustainably.   
So, I think QuickQuid needed to look further into Mrs Ns financial  circumstances. So that it could  gain 
an up to date picture  of her regular monthly income, as well as her monthly outgoings. This would 
include her current monthly living costs,  any regular  credit repayments, and an up to date position  on 
any outstanding short-term credit commitments she may have entered into recently.
From QuickQuids submissions to our service, when it assessed Mrs Ns applications, it seems to 
have included  a monthly estimated disposable income figure (EDI), which it says it used to assess  
the affordability of Mrs Ns application. I dont know exactly  how this was calculated but I understand it 
incorporated information about  monthly credit  commitments  from Mrs Ns credit file checks.
But QuickQuid hasnt provided me a copy of the credit  check it said it ran, so I cant  see what  
allowances its made from what  it found  on the credit check,  and whether this included  any 
outstanding short-term  lending. But in this case, based on what Mrs N declared to QuickQuid it was 
aware that she had around £860 disposable income. However, based on the results of the checks  
that QuickQuid  carried out it says Mrs Ns EDI was actually £533.52. 
Ref: DRN968062612Given, that QuickQuid  appear to be crediting  Mrs N with having a smaller amount of disposable 
income than was declared  Ive considered whether or not this figure shouldve caused concern to 
QuickQuid, when thinking  about  Mrs Ns wider financial position.
Having done so, I think proportionate checks wouldve shown QuickQuid Mrs N didnt owe any 
outstanding balances with other  short term lenders. So, with a declared  monthly  income of £1,450, 
along with the regular monthly credit commitments and living expenses she disclosed of £590,  as well 
as thinking about the EDI figure, QuickQuid wouldve  thought that Mrs N couldve met her loan 
repayments sustainably.
So although, I cant say if QuickQuids  checks went far enough   even if it had carried out further 
checks I dont think this wouldve made any difference to its decision to lend.
loans 7  9 
For each  of these loans Mrs N declared the same income (£1,450) and the same monthly outgoings  - 
£590 and this gave Mrs N a declared disposable income of £860. However, by now, I no longer think  
the checks  QuickQuid had carried  out went  far enough.  Mrs N was repeatedly returning  for further 
borrowing from QuickQuid    and by now, this chain  of lending had been ongoing for around a year 
(by the time loan 7 was approved) and continued after this. 
So I think there were  signs that Mrs N wasnt using  these  loans as intended   using them for longer  
term borrowing  and not to cover a short term cash  flow problem. So taking into account everything 
Ive seen, I dont think QuickQuids checks at this point went far enough  because  there were signs 
that Mrs N was becoming dependent on this sort of borrowing. And under its requirements under  
CONC - QuickQuid needed  to find out whether Mrs N could sustainably meet her repayments without 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
For loan 7, QuickQuid has also provided me with the EDI amount that it has generated via its checks - 
£716.30 over the loan term. Again, like above, I also have  concerns  about  how this is figure has been 
calculated. 
I think  QuickQuids checks by now needed  to go further by actually verifying some of the information  
Mrs N was providing. QuickQuid couldve gone about doing this a number of ways   it couldve for 
example asked to view copies  of Mrs Ns payslips  and ask for evidence of her outgoings. Or as Ive 
done here it couldve asked  to see copies  of her bank statements.  
Had QuickQuid carried out further checks I think it wouldve likely found out that the income Mrs N 
declared for loan 7 was broadly correct  around £1,200 per month. I appreciate  that in the month 
before this loan was approved her income  appears to have  dropped to around £850.  But looking  at 
the months before  and after this loan was approved  this sum appears to be outside of Mrs Ns 
normal monthly income. So, when  thinking about what income QuickQuid may have  discovered  I 
think its likely it wouldve discovered her income  was £1,200 per month. 
In terms of Mrs Ns living costs, I think it is likely QuickQuid wouldve  discovered  her mortgage 
payment of around £325 per month. She also had bills  like utilities, mobile  phone  and insurances  
that came to around £350 per month. She had petrol  costs  of at least  £100 per month and 
repayments to two credit card companies  of £100 per month. I can also see account  fees and charges 
of around £30 per month.  And she spends a minimum of around £60 a week on food  so around 
£240 for the month. 
I can also see that Mrs N appears to be making a number  of small  payments to a number of different 
debt collection agents  and overall these payments add up to around £50 per month.   At the time 
loan 7 was approved, it doesnt appear, based  on what Ive seen, that Mrs N had any other 
outstanding short term loans. 
Ref: DRN968062613So taking account the above, I think proportionate checks wouldve highlighted  that Mrs N wasnt in a 
position to repay this loan as she didnt have enough disposable income to be able to afford  the 
repayments she was committed  to making as well as all the other  monthly living costs and regular 
financial commitments she had to make. 
Looking at loans 8 and 9 it seems that Mrs Ns financial position remained broadly  similar in terms of 
outgoings  expect for an additional catalogue  shopping account - with payments of around £50 per 
month. Considering that Mrs Ns living costs  remain the same  along  with a similar  sort of income of 
around £1,250 per month  it therefore follows that for the same reasons  Ive given above for loan 7. 
That had QuickQuid  carried out proportionate checks, I think it wouldve likely found  out that Mrs N 
wasnt in a position to take on these loans. It therefore follows that I uphold  Mrs Ns complaint with 
regards to loans 8 and 9.  
 
loan 10 
Mr N didnt return for further borrowing from QuickQuid for a period  of almost 7 months.  And Ive 
thought about whether  this gap is significant enough for QuickQuid to have believed that there may 
have been an improvement  to Mrs Ns overall financial position. And overall, I think this gap was 
significant enough  in the circumstances of this case, for QuickQuid to have believed  Mrs Ns 
financial position may have improved. This means that, in this case, it wouldve  been reasonable  for 
QuickQuid to have treated Mrs Ns application afresh. Having thought about the checks carried out by 
QuickQuid, I think its checks were proportionate, and Ive explained why below. 
This was Mrs Ns smallest loan to date and again QuickQuid gathered information  from her about her 
income (declared to be £1,450 per month) and her expenditure (declared as £590). I dont think at this 
time, that there was anything in the information Mrs N provided that ought to have alerted QuickQuid 
that she may have been having some financial  problems  or there was a reason  why it shouldnt  rely 
on what it was being told. And the total repayment she was expected to make  (£66.40) was 
comparatively small compared to her declared disposable income. 
Thinking about all of these factors I think, QuickQuid had carried out proportionate checks   and 
based on the checks that it carried  out it wouldve most likely thought  Mrs N was in a position to be 
able to afford  the repayment  of this loan. So I dont think it was wrong of QuickQuid to have given Mrs 
N this loan. 
Ref: DRN9680626