K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the increases on their premiums  on their home  insurance  
policy, held with Aviva  Insurance Limited  (Aviva).
background 
Mr and Mrs A took out home insurance  with Aviva in 1999 when they moved  into their 
property. Due to the time that has passed Avivas records show the earliest known premium 
as £500.03 in 2001.
Mr and Mrs A made an escape of water claim in 2009, with the amount of the claim totalling  
£7,744 under the buildings insurance and £1,354 under the contents  insurance. There  was 
a subsidence  claim made  in 2012  under the buildings insurance which  totalled  £1,167.  
The policys  cost increased  over the years and in 2016, Mr and Mrs As premium was 
£1,977.37.
Mr and Mrs As policy automatically renewed  each  year and Mr and Mrs A say they dont 
consider they have  been treated fairly as their premiums kept increasing over the years. 
Mr and Mrs A were  particularly concerned over the increases in the later years and felt that 
due to the history  of subsidence Aviva were  possibly taking advantage of this.
Mr and Mrs A contacted Aviva about  their concerns, and Aviva responded saying that it 
considered Mr and Mrs As policy had been  priced  correctly over the years.  
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint to this service.
While the complaint was with our service, Aviva  offered to refund some  of the cost of the 
insurance. 
Aviva offered to the refund to Mr and Mrs A the amount paid above the 2007 premium  from 
2008 up until 2011 (totalling £679.03). As there had been claims made in this period its offer 
also factored this in. So it assumed the price increased due to the claims, but it reduced the 
amount of those increases.
Its offer also included an amount of compensation set at 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr and Mrs A for being  out of pocket of that money (totalling £531.91). 
Aviva also offered an additional £100  as compensation for the trouble Mr and Mrs A had 
been caused. So Avivas total offer to Mr and Mrs A came to £1,310.94.
But Aviva said in 2011, Mr and Mrs A engaged with the renewal  amending the cover to 
remove accidental damage cover on the contents insurance and increased the excess  which  
resulted in a £600 reduction  in the premium. And Aviva says that in 2015  Mr and Mrs A 
contacted it to see how the premium would be affected if they let their property out.  
Because Mr and Mrs A were aware they could engage from 2011 onwards,  and did so, 
Aviva thought this period shouldnt be considered within  its offer. 
Aviva also said that Mr and Mrs As property was considered at risk of flooding. During 2012 
until 2015, Aviva says it was charging Mr and Mrs A less than it should have  and the 
Ref: DRN99843752increases were to bring the cost of the policy up to the true cost associated with insuring  the 
property. So Aviva says this is another reason it doesnt consider these years  should be 
included within its offer. In essence there  were  genuine risk related reasons for the 
premiums increasing.
And finally Aviva explained  that the premiums  started decreasing  from 2016  (while the 
complaint has been ongoing with our service) due to the Government  flood scheme  Flood 
Re-insurance  often  referred to as Flood Re. Flood Re is a joint initiative between the 
Government and insurers with the aim to make  the flood cover  part of household insurance 
policies more affordable for eligible consumers who live in areas at risk of flooding.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Avivas offer was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They still considered Aviva had unfairly taken advantage of their 
inertia and had increased  their policy cost just because they werent engaging with the 
price. They felt they were  owed more in compensation. They  also still felt hostage to Aviva  
as a result  of the subsidence claim which they say makes getting insurance elsewhere  
difficult and Aviva were using that to charge them an excessive premium.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs A fairly throughout the time they held 
their insurance policy.
If I find that Aviva hasnt treated Mr and Mrs A fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair, and in this case, whether I think what Aviva has offered is fair.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think Avivas offer of compensation is fair. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, so Id like to explain why.
The earliest known  premium shows Mr and Mrs As policy cost £500.03 in 2001.  By 2016 the 
insurance cost £1,977.37.  Mr and Mrs As policy did increase in cost over the years  so Ive 
looked to see what happened.
Mr and Mrs As policy automatically renewed  each  year. With automatic renewals there  is a 
chance that if a consumer  doesnt  engage  with the renewal process or shop around, they 
can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer.  
Ref: DRN99843753An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost. 
When Mr and Mrs A took out their policy it included an introductory discount.  It isnt 
uncommon for insurers to initially price  a policy at a lower cost than the true cost associated 
with the risk of insuring  a property. This is to attract new customers. Insurers aim to keep the 
consumer and recoup  that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this unfair.
With Mr and Mrs As policy, Aviva  says the gradual  increases in the premiums in the early 
years were  due to the initial  discount  being  recouped and the increases in insurance  
premium tax. So while the premiums increased - it wasnt because  Mr and Mrs A werent 
engaging with the cost.
And, importantly, in the early years Mr and Mrs A held their policy  Aviva  wouldnt have been 
aware that they werent engaging with their renewals  that wouldnt have been known for 
some years. 
But by 2007s  renewal,  Aviva should have known  Mr and Mrs A werent engaging. But 
Mr and Mrs As premiums  continued  to increase each year.
So Aviva has offered to keep Mr and Mrs As yearly home insurance premium  at 2007s 
price, paying  Mr and Mrs A the difference they paid over that amount for each subsequent 
year thereafter, adjusted for the claims that took place. I think that is a fair way to approach  
compensation for anything that might  have gone wrong.
But in this case, Aviva considers its offer should  only go up to 2011 and the later years  
shouldnt be included.
Why hasnt Aviva included the years  after 2011  in its offer  and is this fair?
In 2011, Mr and Mrs A engaged with their renewal  and amended  the cover.  So they were 
presumably happy with the cover and the cost going forward from this point. They  also 
enquired about  the policy  again in 2015 when they considered letting out their property.
So, I agree  that it is fair to stop the offer at this point. Mr and Mrs A were aware, and had 
engaged, with their policy  and the renewal. So I cant say Aviva were taking advantage of 
them by increasing  the premium  unfairly because Mr and Mrs A wasnt  engaging.
But importantly, there were other reasons why the premium increased in the later years  that 
wasnt the result of Mr and Mrs A not engaging.
As explained above, an insurer  isnt necessary doing anything wrong by changing the 
premium each year at renewal  and this can happen for a number of reasons.
Insurers will continually  reassess the risk a property  presents. If an insurer  thinks theres a 
greater risk than before,  the premium  will increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with 
this.
Ref: DRN99843754Aviva says the later increases in Mr and Mrs As premiums were for risk related reasons. 
So Ive looked  to see what the reasons were.
Aviva classed Mr and Mrs As property at risk of flooding. It says between 2012 and 2015  it 
was charging Mr and Mrs A less than it should  have. The increases were to bring  the cost of 
the policy up to the true cost that Aviva associated with insuring  Mr and Mrs As property.
So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing in the later years.  This means that overall, I agree that the premiums from 2011  
onwards dont need to be included in Avivas offer.  
I note Mr and Mrs A were concerned that in the last few years their premium  has gone down 
 and felt that was because the complaint was with our service. I understand why they may 
think that, but it isnt the case. In 2016  Flood Re was introduced.  As explained  earlier it was 
a Government  backed  scheme  that worked with insurers to make  those homes  eligible for 
the scheme more  affordable to insure.  This was the reason the premiums reduced. If 
Mr and Mrs A want to know  more about  Flood Re and how it works, there is information 
available online which explains how the system works and why it reduces what a consumer 
pays for their insurance if they live in a flood risk area.
Mr and Mrs A say that the subsidence history of their property meant that they felt hostage to 
Aviva. I can understand why they would feel this way. But that doesnt mean I think  anything 
has gone wrong.
Insurance policies  often  exclude cover to new customers for things that have happened in 
the past. That means Mr and Mrs A might find it difficult  to get cover  for subsidence if they 
moved to another insurer. And if I thought  Aviva  had increased their policy costs just 
because of this, I might  not think that was fair. But as set out above, I think  there  were  risk 
related reasons why the premiums increased in the way they did. So I dont think  Aviva did 
take advantage of any previous subsidence  claims.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Aviva Insurance  Limiteds offer to refund some  of the costs of 
Mr and Mrs As home insurance  policy from 2008 until 2011 is fair. Aviva Insurance  Limiteds 
additional compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused to Mr and Mrs A is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9984375