K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Miss S have  complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc following a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy after the tank in their loft leaked causing water  
damage throughout their home.
background
The house  (which includes an annex)  was damaged  by a leak in November 2016.  AXA 
accepted the claim and, in January 2017, in preparation for strip out work to begin, the 
family moved out of their damaged home. The damage was extensive and AXA opted  to 
tender the work for reinstatement, a number of contractors viewed the damage, three 
returned quotes and AXA selected one.
By the end of June AXAs contractors had stripped the property and begun the 
reinstatement work.  Mr M and Miss S planned to do some private work and AXA agreed  to 
allow this. Theyd found a contractor to carry out some  roof work, but AXAs contractor  had 
agreed to do some  work  directly for them. It also introduced them  to other  specialist traders. 
However, Miss S became  unhappy with AXAs contractors  she returned  to the house one 
day and found  the undamaged areas hadnt  been properly  protected and some items had 
been damaged.
In September  2017 the contractors appointed  by AXA walked off the job, citing problems 
with contractors doing private work,  and AXA said it would settle the remainder of the claim 
in cash. That meant  Miss S had to find her own contractors to complete the work. But Mr M 
and Miss S were unhappy with the settlement offer AXA made (of circa £114,000); feeling  it 
was generally low and that whilst AXA accepted that some  work to reinstate the kitchen 
would be necessary, no allowance was made for this work. And Mr M and Miss S felt the 
kitchen needed  replacing in its entirety. Around this time Mr M and Miss S made their first 
contact with this service.
In November 2017, Mr M and Miss Ss electrician  began work to make safe the electrical 
installation at their home. AXA didnt accept that all the work the contractor was doing was 
necessary as part of the claim so wouldnt pay for all of it. Mr M and Miss S felt the work 
needed doing regardless, and before  any other reinstatement work could be done, so they 
went ahead, even without any payment from AXA having been  made.  Theyd also decided  
to use a contractor, for the general  reinstatement work, that had visited  the property at the 
same time as AXAs original contractor.
Debate about the electrical repair costs continued  as did disputes about most of the rest of 
the work.  AXA felt that many items included within Miss Ss contractors scopes werent part 
of the claim repairs. AXA also felt the non-claim repairs being carried  out impacted the 
length of the reinstatement process.  
The lease for the familys alternative accommodation that AXA had paid for was due to run 
out in January 2018. AXA wouldnt agree to fund any stay beyond  that point.
In December 2017, before we completed our initial investigations into the complaint and just 
before the lease  expired,  AXA released  a claim payment to Mr M and Miss S of £160,200. It 
saw that as full settlement of its liability for the claim.  Mr M and Miss S said theyd accept 
this as an interim payment only. AXA made the payment and Mr M and Miss S authorised 
Ref: DRN91888612their contractor to proceed with the reinstatement  works. It was expected that the works 
would complete by the middle of April 2018.
However, Mr M and Miss S remained concerned about the amounts AXA had allocated  
across lots of different  parts of the work that made  up the £160,200 paid. And there was still 
no allowance for reinstating  the kitchen. When our investigator looked at the matter  she felt 
AXA hadnt  always acted  fairly and reasonably. She issued three views setting out what  she 
felt had gone wrong and what AXA needed to do to make  up for its part in that.
During our investigation, and as a result of some of the findings made by the investigator,  
agreement was reached on some issues  for example it was agreed  that AXA would pay 
the reasonable cost of utility bills. But other things, such  as that AXA should  pay the cost 
submitted by Mr M and Miss S for electrical  work,  was disputed  by AXA. For their part, 
Mr M and Miss S felt the recommendations didnt go far enough, particularly as it hadnt 
been recommended  that AXA pay for the entire  main kitchen to be replaced.
As the parties couldnt  reach agreement, the complaint was passed  to me and I issued a 
provisional decision. I said I could only make a recommendation and I explained what  this 
meant. The parties responded and my provisional findings, their replies and my final 
considerations are set out below. My provisional  findings are quoted in italics.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For practicality purposes Ive only 
included a summary background above but Im aware  of everything that went  on. In respect 
of the parties  responses to my provisional  findings,  Ive only stated  where an objection has 
been raised and considered by me. If I dont record any comment that is because  that point 
was agreed with or not objected to by either party.  
I explained provisionally that there are rules  which apply  to this service.  One of them  is that 
we can only make binding  awards against insurers up to the value of £150,000. So where a 
complaint is made to us and the potential cash settlement for an insurance claim could 
exceed this amount, the most we can make the insurer pay is £150,000.
In this case, after Mr M and Miss S complained to us, AXA paid them £160,200. This is 
more than the limit Im able to award.  And because  it was paid during our complaint 
process it effectively means  our award  limit has already been reached. I cant, therefore, 
make AXA pay any more.  I can only recommend that it do so. So Mr M and Miss S need to 
be aware that even,  if they accept any final decision I make within  the deadline set, AXA 
wont be bound to comply  with it. Further, its unlikely that if Mr M and Miss S accept my 
final decision  theyll be able to pursue AXA in court. They may wish to seek legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Turning to the points in dispute; Ive set out my provisional findings below in italics. The 
parties responses and my replies  are set out in normal  font after each section, unless no 
comment or objections were made.
AXA opting to settle in cash
AXA felt that the private work  was more extensive  than first planned and that it impacted its 
own contractors work.  It said it would have settled the claim in cash at the outset if it had 
Ref: DRN91888613known the extent of the planned  private works.
Miss S has said there wasnt much private  work going on but I think  there was sufficient  to 
cause reasonable concern for AXA and its contractor. The mix of private and insured work 
can complicate things. AXAs contractor had responsibility for managing the site but it had 
no control over traders employed  by Mr M and Miss S. I understand why AXA reviewed its 
position as time went on. Im satisfied that the policy  allows  for settlement  in cash and 
AXAs decision to do so was fair and reasonable.
Mr M and Miss S said whilst they accept private  work can complicate insured repairs, AXA 
had agreed to them being carried out here.  And when it reverted to settling in cash they had 
nothing booked in, in terms of upgrading their home,  in addition  to what  had been  initially 
agreed. They had had roof work carried out but at AXAs  request.  Theyd always  been 
willing to compromise  and AXA could have stopped and given them options. Immediately 
reverting to settling  in cash had been unfair.
Im satisfied that AXA was clear  from the outset that it would allow  limited  private  work  to be 
carried out as long as that didnt interfere with its programme of works or extend  the repair 
period. I can see by September 2017 it had concerns its conditions  werent  being  kept to. 
Its also clear  the roofer arrived unannounced, which I understand caused concerns for 
those in charge  of site safety. As the conditions had been made clear at the outset, I dont 
think AXA reasonably  needed to allow a further  chance before reverting to a cash  
settlement. Furthermore, there are still debates today, subject to this complaint, about the 
extent of AXAs liability for work done (what it sees as private works and Mr M and Miss S 
see as insured). So I dont  think it wouldve  been possible, even had AXA sought to talk 
about the issue, for the parties to reach an amicable agreement that wouldve allowed AXA 
to feel able to resume the repair contract.
issues with the quality  of work completed
Mr M and Miss Ss original concerns  centered  around what AXA would and wouldnt pay for 
 and that is the main focus of my decision. But Miss S has now identified various issues  
with the work (private and insured  reinstatement  work) completed  at her home. She feels  
that because AXA introduced the contractors that were used for all of the work, even the 
contractor they used to complete the reinstatement  following  AXAs cash  settlement, it is 
responsible for all of the problems that have now been found.
My view is that AXA isnt responsible for any of the private works. The contract for that work 
exists between Mr M, Miss S and the contractor.  AXA is not party to it. The only work for 
which AXA can be held accountable is anything completed by its contractor before AXA 
elected to make a cash settlement. That means it has no liability  for work completed at 
Mr M and Miss Ss home that was subject to that payment. So as far as the quality of finish  
of any private work, or insured reinstatement  work  that is or should have been subject of 
the settlement  AXA made, Im not going to make any further comment  or any 
recommendation. The issues Im satisfied need considering against AXA are set out below.
Mr M and Miss S say that AXA is responsible for everything its authorised contractors  did. 
They were  told they had to use those contractors,  they were  working  for AXA and its policy 
makes it liable for them as well as requiring AXA to guarantee their work.
I understand Mr M and Miss Ss frustration  but private work is just that; private. AXA has no 
liability for it and the policy wording  doesnt extend  to it. Even  when that private work is 
Ref: DRN91888614carried out by its contractors who are simultaneously carrying out insured work  on its 
behalf. Thats because  there is no contract between AXA and the contractor for the private 
works  that contract exists between the contractor and Mr M and Miss S. The contractor in 
that instance, is carrying that work  out for them, not for AXA.
items still under consideration
Mr M and Miss Ss claim for contents  items  hadnt been fully made or assessed by the time 
the complaint  came  to us. The parties had been  content to focus on the buildings  claim.  But 
Mr M and Miss S had told AXA of their concern that their contents may have  been  
contaminated by asbestos. AXA agreed, during our process, to check Mr M and Miss Ss 
contents items prior to them being returned home. Mr M and Miss S welcomed this offer.
The family in due course did return  home  and no further comment  or concern has been 
raised about this aspect,  so I wont make any finding regarding  the contents  claim here.
I have though taken into account what happened regarding the asbestos removal below in 
as far as it affected  the building claim and the concerns Miss S raised about whether the 
familys health had been  affected.  The family  werent living at home at the time though or 
using their exposed  contents items. But if AXAs tests  found  they had been  contaminated 
this may have increased the reinstatement costs and/or  caused  further  distress  and/or 
inconvenience. If there are concerns about  this, Id expect AXA to consider them and a 
further complaint  can be made if Mr M and Miss S remain  dissatisfied.
AXA had agreed  to consider Mr M and Miss Ss carpet replacement  costs once theyd had 
the damaged  carpets assessed.  I understand  from what  Mr M and Miss S have said that 
they incurred a cost for the assessment and that a quote for replacement has been sent to 
AXA. I also understand that AXA is considering all of this. Therefore, as the issue is still in 
consideration, Ill say no more about  it here (it isnt an issue in deadlock that currently  
requires my assessment).
AXA said it is awaiting details of the contents  claim but, having been  forwarded the estimate  
for carpets,  said it would  pay this (£17,360.04).  
I think AXAs offer to pay the carpet  estimate  is reasonable,  but it is now more than a year 
out of date. AXA knew the carpet issue was outstanding but didnt seek to progress it during 
this time. To account for this not getting  resolved earlier and for any increase in costs  that 
may have  occurred, Im going to recommend that it pays interest  on the estimate  amount 
from its date 15 July 2018 until settlement is made.  To clarify  for Mr M and Miss S, carpets 
are contents  items. 
Part of Mr M and Miss Ss concern about  this claim has been that AXA caused damage to 
their property. They sent photos of damaged curtains and curtain poles. These are contents 
items so will fall for consideration under the contents claim. But Im satisfied that when 
assessing the contents claim AXA should accept these were damaged by its contractors, 
acting for it, as they were removed, and seemingly  not stored carefully,  during the strip-out  
work (that it carried out). 
claim handling and delay, including asbestos  removal
The leak occurred at the end of November  2016  and AXA sent a drying company to the 
property as soon  as it was notified of the loss. This was because  of the extent of the water 
damage. I think it acted  prudently in this respect.  An initial asbestos test was carried out at 
Ref: DRN91888615the same  time. The results were negative but the test was limited. The drying company 
confirmed in December  that it couldnt strip out the property and tenders were sought. Once 
these came back the successful company demanded  that further asbestos tests were  
carried out. These tests  found significant amounts of asbestos  throughout  the building,  and 
not just present in ceilings (as is most  common).  Costs  for safe removal were sought  and 
AXA agreed to cover this as part of the insured works. Removal began in May/June 2017 
and took around  a month to complete.
It is clear from AXAs file that it should have completed a more comprehensive test initially. 
And I think that if it had done, the first (and ultimately insufficient) tender could have been 
avoided. The work that was necessary to reinstate  the property,  after the asbestos was 
cleared from the home, was far more extensive  than that allowed for in the initial  tender, 
effectively making it null and void. Therefore, the time taken to obtain this could have been 
saved if the initial testing had been comprehensive enough.
So I accept  that there  was a degree of frustration and inconvenience related to this failure 
by AXA.  But Im not convinced that the failure  ever put Mr M and Miss S and their family at 
risk. Nor do I think that Miss S was ever really that worried in this respect   I accept that 
she had some concern  but she herself said in an email  in June 2016 that she accepted 
there was little risk and didnt really believe any harm had been caused.
When AXAs  contractors pulled out of the job this left Mr M and Miss S to complete the work 
themselves. I can see they were  reluctant to do this and, given the extent of the work, Im 
not surprised they challenged AXAs decision to settle in cash. I can also see that their 
challenges resulted in AXA increasing its settlement offer. But, given the size of the 
settlement in question  I think  AXA could have  sent an initial  payment  to Mr M and Miss S, 
with the caveat that they could start (the main reinstatement) repairs  with this fund and/or 
continue to complain  about the points in dispute. If AXA was adamant that it was going to 
settle in cash  then that would have been  the right and fair thing to do. As it was AXA didnt 
release any funds until we became involved,  a delay of around  three  months. Once this was 
done Miss S authorised  the main reinstatement  work to start. Im satisfied that AXAs  failure 
to set out and/or make any settlement earlier, as well as causing delay to the works, 
resulted in distress  and inconvenience to the family.  Particularly if payment had been made 
earlier, the reinstatement could have  begun and been completed sooner,  meaning the 
family wouldnt have  been out of their home as long as they were.
AXA said that it didnt  think it was fair for it to be criticised for not having issued cash sooner 
because Mr M and Miss S had indicated they didnt  want this. It didnt  think this had held up 
the work.
It is true that Mr M and Miss S had objected to the cash settlement  but I dont think its true 
to say AXA didnt  pay it because it was trying to reach agreement with them.  I say that 
because AXA simply wasnt prepared to carry out the work. It may have been negotiating 
for an agreeable payment   but that wasnt good  reason  not to pay its minimum accepted 
level of liability. An initial, interim, without prejudice payment, could have eased Mr M and 
Miss Ss worry and allowed them to instruct the contractor sooner. I remain  of the view that 
the situation regarding asbestos  and the withheld settlement  payment both caused  
unreasonable and avoidable delay to this claim.
Ref: DRN91888616the impact  of private work on the length  of the claim
AXA feels  that, regardless of delays, but for the private work,  the family  wouldnt have  
needed to live elsewhere beyond the end of the lease  it had paid for (which had been due 
to end in January 2018).
I can see that the main  kitchen was re-fitted in its entirety, the annex kitchen was moved 
and the annex bathroom re-configured. I cant  be sure how much time that work took, or 
how much  longer that was than it would have  taken to do the work accepted as necessary 
as a result  of the claim.  But I think it likely did impact the period of reinstatement  work to 
some extent. So I have to take that into consideration when determining what costs and 
compensation I think AXA should  pay.
Mr M and Miss S said they were very clear with the contractors  all work was to run 
concurrently so there  would be no delay.  There were some delays, such  as plaster taking 
extra time to dry, but all these were things AXA would have encountered if it had completed 
the work.
I understand that Mr M and Miss S would have made  best efforts to keep the work period 
as short  as possible. However,  I remain of the view (see below) that extensive work was 
carried out by them that AXA wasnt liable for completing. Im satisfied that the period  of 
works was longer as a result.
compensation and costs for rent and storage
The lease for the property  the family were staying at was extended by three months. So 
there were three months more rent and storage  costs to pay, as well as three  months more 
upset suffered. As Ive explained  though, I dont think  its fair to say AXA was responsible 
for all of that. But I also explained  its not possible to reach an accurate finding about 
exactly how many days  or weeks AXA is responsible for. I think  that to reflect the dual 
liability that Im satisfied exists, it is fair to view AXA has having liability  for 50% of the 
extended period.
Ive taken this into account alongside the claim handling and delay  issues I mentioned 
above. Having  done so, Im satisfied that AXA caused Mr M and Miss S some  substantial 
distress and inconvenience. I think payment of £1,500 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances here.
Regarding the rent and storage, Im going to recommend  that AXA pays for half of any 
costs incurred for the period 18 January 2018 (the first day of the extended lease) until
16 April 2018 (the day the family  moved  home). To any sum paid AXA will have to add 
interest* on any figure that makes up that sum from the date the related total cost was 
incurred by Mr M and Miss S until settlement is made.
AXA asked if the £1,500  was in addition to the £1,500 it had agreed with our investigator  it 
would pay. It also said it didnt think it should  pay anything for rent and storage as it didnt 
feel it had delayed the claim.
I note AXA agreed  the £1,500 payment earlier in our process. My recommended payment  
doesnt seek to add to that. What I have set out here is the totality of what  I think is required 
to settle this claim and complaint. 
Ref: DRN91888617Ive set out my final decision regarding delays  above. AXA did, in my view, cause delays 
and it should,  therefore, reimburse Mr M and Miss Ss resultant  losses.
Mr M and Miss S, for their part, say my suggestion  of AXA paying 50% is unfair because of 
the multiple delays  it caused, and the fact that they didnt cause any unreasonable  delays. 
Ive explained  above that I dont accept that the extent of work they carried  out was all 
necessary as result of the claim and that it most likely extended the repair period. 
I remain of the view that both parties caused  delays  in this claim which  impacted  the extent 
of the repair  period and the costs  incurred by Mr M and Miss S. I have no way to calculate  a 
proportionate liability using specific time periods  the variables are too great. So, to reflect 
the dual liability  for the costs incurred, Im satisfied that a 50% split is a reasonable 
settlement recommendation. I also remain of the view that its reasonable to say that to its 
share AXA will have to add interest*.
Regarding compensation, Mr M and Miss S said my award was too low, particularly as they 
had used contents items that had been exposed to asbestos. They said they wanted me to 
increase the amount and make an allowance to let them  accept my decision on a without 
prejudice basis to them  taking legal action against  AXA if required in respect  of the 
asbestos issue. Particularly because my award  was far below what  the courts might award.
I understand Mr M and Miss S would  like more  compensation.  But I cant make any 
allowance or agreement regarding accepting my decision  with caveats. Our rules simply 
dont allow  for that. What  impact accepting my decision might  have  on any legal  claim Mr M 
and Miss S may want to make is something  theyd need to seek legal  advice on. My view 
remains that, at the time of their complaint  they werent too worried about the exposure 
theyd experienced.  As my view regarding delays has also stayed the same, so does my 
view on fair and reasonable  compensation; I recommend that AXA pays £1,500.   
utility bills and gardening costs
AXA said it would reimburse  costs totalling  £2,925.47  incurred during the time the family 
lived elsewhere but only up to the date the original lease ended in January 2018.
For the period  AXA has considered, Im satisfied  the offered amount is fair and reasonable. 
Ive seen what Mr M and Miss S have asked AXA to pay for and Im satisfied its settlement 
is based on costs  they wouldnt have incurred  but for the claim and living elsewhere. Im 
also satisfied that AXA has fairly  refused to reimburse costs incurred for work or services  
that Mr M and Miss S would always usually pay or would have to have paid. For example, 
the costs Mr M and Miss S paid in relation  to maintaining their garden  getting an extra bin 
and re-seeding areas of lawn due to moss  growth as a result of trees. The need for this 
work and the associated  costs didnt arise or become payable  as a result  of the claim, work 
AXA carried  out or any delay it caused.  It was always work Mr M and Miss S would needed 
to have done, and, therefore,  a cost they would always have  faced. Having considered 
everything Im not going to recommend that AXA pays  any more for costs  incurred during 
this period.
However, given Ive found that AXA has some liability for the lease having been extended, 
Im also of the view that it isnt fair for it to refuse all liability  for all other additional costs 
incurred associated with living  elsewhere  during that extended period. Following on from 
my finding  above  I think AXA should  review any costs submitted by Mr M and Miss S as 
having been incurred between 18 January 2017  and 16 April 2017  (inclusive). It should then 
Ref: DRN91888618offer to reimburse  50% of any costs accepted as having been incurred due to the extended 
stay away from home. To any settlement it should  add interest* on each partially  
reimbursed amount from the date the related whole cost was incurred by Mr M and Miss S 
until settlement is made.
AXA again  said it felt it shouldnt have to pay anything here as it hadnt,  in its view, caused  
delays.
Ive set out my final decision regarding delays  above. AXA did, in my view, cause delays 
and it should,  therefore, reimburse Mr M and Miss Ss losses  as Ive suggested.
Mr M and Miss S said the charge for the bin was an annual one. So it hadnt asked AXA to 
pay for a new bin. The alternative, they said, was for their gardener  to pay for disposal of 
waste at the local tip  an expensive exercise.
Upon review I noted that AXA had actually paid for the extra bin. Settlement  for this was 
sent along with the reimbursement for the cleaning bill, but the excess was taken from the 
total of these sums. Miss S said she recalled receiving a lump  sum but didnt  know what it 
was for. Im reasonably satisfied AXA has paid this sum, and I stand by my provisional  
findings in any event  it was a cost that Mr M and Miss S would  always have likely incurred 
in relation to the upkeep of their garden  so if AXA hadnt paid it, I wouldnt be asking it to. 
cleaning the rental property
The lease for the rental property required that it be professionally cleaned. AXA agreed this 
was a cost related to the stay in alternative accommodation that it would need to pay for.
Mr M and Miss S have  been asked to provide  proof they paid £680 for this and the invoice  
has been sent but this doesnt show when the payment was made. Im likely to recommend 
AXA pays  this sum,  plus interest* from the date of payment until settlement is made  (if it 
hasnt done so already).
AXA confirmed that this sum, net of the excess was paid in June 2019. Mr M and Miss S 
said they recall receiving a lump  sum but werent sure what that was paid in respect of. 
As I said above the sum paid in June/July  2019  comprised  the cleaning  bill and green bin 
amount, less the excess. Im reasonably  satisfied  AXA has paid this sum and Mr M and 
Miss S have received benefit of it. If they check their records and find they havent they 
should show proof to AXA.
If interest  wasnt  added  then AXA should  pay an amount  in that respect now on the 
cleaning bill amount. Simply it should have reimbursed this cost sooner. On review I can 
see Miss S paid the bill 1 May 2018, so interest* will have to be calculated based  on the bill 
amount from then until settlement was made.
main kitchen
Theres no allowance within AXAs settlement for reinstating the kitchen, even though  it 
accepts that some carcasses  were swollen as a result of the water incident.  Mr M and
Miss S had the kitchen replaced  in its entirety. They said there was damage to tiles from the 
strip-out and the units were more damaged than first thought.  They upgraded their kitchen 
but said a like-for-like replacement would cost around £12,000, plus labour, tiling and fitting  
of a breakfast  bar.
Ref: DRN91888619I think AXA should have  made some  settlement  regarding the kitchen, considering it 
accepted there was some damage. But Im not persuaded by what Ive seen that it should  
reasonably have agreed to its complete replacement.
The only damage  Ive seen regarding tiles is one missing  and some  loose ones around the 
breakfast bar area.  But another photograph, also after the ceiling was taken  down, shows  
the missing tile in place.  Im not convinced  this damage resulted from the ceiling being 
taken down in a careless manner. Even  if I could  be persuaded that was the case, I think 
these could have  been repaired. And even if they couldnt then a compromise could have 
been reached for replacing the tiles in that small isolated area.
The units  accepted as damaged by the incident are separate from the rest of the kitchen. 
Ive seen no proof that other units were  damaged,  that doors were affected or that worktops 
and the like couldnt be re-used. Ive also not seen proof that the sink was damaged  or any 
of the appliances. I note the extractor was covered in dust and debris  when it was taken 
down but there is nothing  to show this didnt work or that it had been materially  affected by 
the dust.
Both parties  have seen  the like-for-like quote  for replacing the kitchen units.  Im going to 
ask AXA to go through this highlighting what was required to resolve the water  damage it 
accepts had occurred  in the kitchen.  For the avoidance of doubt I think  at least  the 
carcasses to the left of the door likely needed replacing. Once AXA has done that and given 
a total, Ill share it with Mr M and Miss S for them to comment upon. Ill then decide  what
I think should be paid.
AXA hasnt created a cost at this stage. It will now need to do that following my decision, if 
Mr M and Miss S accept  it and if it agrees to honour  my findings. In doing that it will have to 
take into account the policy wording  regarding matching sets which says it wont  pay for 
undamaged but matching items unless they are part of a bathroom  suite or fitted kitchen.
Mr M and Miss S argued that an inappropriate  non-matching  repair  would devalue their 
home and they shouldnt  have to live with such when damage was caused by AXAs 
contractors. Likewise any usual arrangements  for settlements regarding loss of match 
shouldnt be applied where the loss is due to the insurers  failures.  The extractor was clearly 
full of debris, as was the sink, and appliances were affected too. AXA could have tested  if it 
had wanted to but didnt.  Mr M and Miss S said theyve recently been told the worktops 
cant be removed to allow for the cupboards  to be replaced and then re-used, and theyve 
likely warped anyway.  Theyve been told the whole kitchen does have to be replaced for 
hygiene reasons. 
An inappropriate repair wouldnt be satisfactory   but given the location of the damaged 
tiling in particular, Im not convinced  that it would be impossible to find an appropriate 
repair. And as I said provisionally,  Im not convinced that these tiles were  damaged  by the 
strip-out work. Im not convinced that any loss of match has been caused by AXAs  failures. 
When AXA reviews the scope it can consider whether the appliances were  likely damaged  
and in need of replacement. It hasnt  tested anything to date but if Mr M and Miss S say 
they need replacing it is up to them to show this. The fact of the extractor and sink being 
covered in debris doesnt mean they were  irrevocably damaged as a result  of that. It is 
sometimes necessary to prop worktops  whilst cupboards beneath are replaced. They dont 
always have to be removed and re-fitted. I havent seen evidence theyre warped but again 
AXA can consider  this. 
Ref: DRN918886110AXA didnt think the kitchen needed  replacing,  on account of hygiene grounds or anything 
else. I havent seen  an expert opinion that this is most likely necessary. If Mr M and Miss S 
have it they can send it to AXA for it to consider alongside the estimate when determining 
what should be paid.  Based on what Ive seen, to date, Im not persuaded to change my 
provisional findings.  
wardrobes
These were  removed by AXA and couldnt be re-fitted. AXA said it would only cost £200 to 
replace them. There were four wardrobes and it isnt clear  to me if the £200 stated by AXA 
is for all four or each. Either way, I think that is likely to be insufficient; timber  alone, even 
for the smallest wardrobe (which seemingly had little fitments internally but included double  
doors top and bottom and an end panel), would likely  cost that much.
Miss S provided evidence  to show they had been  professionally fitted wardrobes which  
would cost, based on sale prices in January 2018,  £10,514 to replace. Her evidence 
consisted of an estimate  from the national retailer with a comment  on it that it was re-fitting  
on a like-for-like basis to the original.
Im not persuaded this means  the wardrobes were  definitely supplied by that retailer  
originally. A salesman  could view photos  and conclude that looks like something it may 
have provided   but I bear in mind  comments AXAs made  about  the age of the wardrobes 
and that the smallest one at least seems to have just been  a shell, which  is not the type of 
fitment normally provided by this retailer.
So Im not persuaded by either partys assessment of value and Im not in position to put an 
actual price on this work. To draw this matter to an end Im going to recommend that AXA 
pays Mr M and Miss S £5,000 to reinstate all the wardrobes, less any amount already paid. 
This figure is roughly half way between what Mr M and Miss S want and what AXA has said 
it would  pay. It reflects  the inadequacies in evidence from both sides  and that four 
wardrobes, one of which at least was a fairly  substantial installation  with mirrored doors, 
need replacing.
AXA said it still thinks the proposed costs are unrealistic. Whilst Ive referred to timber  it 
thinks the small wardrobe was made  of nothing more substantial  than vinyl wrapped 
chipboard. It feels £1,000  is a more reasonable sum.
I understand AXAs concerns but its opinion  on this hasnt  changed  my mind that a sum of 
£5,000 constitutes a fair settlement here. Whether the small wardrobe was timber or 
chipboard, I cant see it could have been  reconstructed for £200.  And there were three 
other wardrobes to consider too, one of which was mirrored. AXA hasnt convinced me that 
those three,  plus the smaller wardrobe,  could  most  likely  be replaced on a like-for-like basis 
for less than £5,000.
Mr M and Miss S said they felt the evidence from the previous house owner, who had 
confirmed the wardrobes had been purchased from the retailer that had quoted for 
replacements, had been ignored. I did consider this previously  but noted  it was a short 
email with little detail, and from the owners  daughter, not the owners themselves, and 
based on her recollection. It wasnt, in my view, reliable or persuasive  evidence.  
underfloor heating
Ref: DRN918886111Miss S said this was damaged during strip-out works as insufficient protection  was provided 
to the floors.  Her expert report and invoice for repair, totalling £382.25, refers to repair of a 
loop damaged during strip-out works.  AXA hasnt  presented anything  to make me doubt this 
finding.
Im going  to recommend that AXA makes  a payment in this respect, plus interest*.  
Seemingly it shouldve taken more  care when stripping the home.
electrical work
AXA allowed  just over £3,000 for this in its settlement, but said the contingency of just over
£5,000 could be used too. Mr M and Miss Ss bill for electrical work came  in at around
£17,000. AXA said it included  uninsured  work  for example more lights in the kitchen and 
hall than there had been before.
I note that Mr M and Miss S have said changes  were made to account for current  
regulations  so wall lights were not reinstated. Im not convinced  though that accounts for 
the changes made or that the installation completed at the property was the best 
like-for -like work that could be done  having taken into account  the necessary regulations.
But it was reported  that at least part of the reason for additional  costs  was that the property 
needed re-wiring.  Seemingly the cabling for lights had been cut during the strip-out work and 
the cabling for sockets as well as the fuse-board  needed  updating.
Ive not seen that the insured work necessitated  any repairs  to the sockets.  Nor have  I seen 
that these or the fuse-board had to be updated  in order  to allow  insured work  to complete. 
But it was AXA that stripped the property.
Therefore, I dont think AXA is responsible for any costs related to updating the sockets  and 
fuse-board. But I am going to recommend that AXA makes an additional payment to cover  
the cost of re-wiring  work necessary to reinstate the lights as they were before.
AXA said it would agree to this, as long as its satisfied the contingency has been  expended 
elsewhere, otherwise  the funds for this should come  from that.
Mr M and Miss S said their quote  was like-for-like,  all sockets on the second  floor had been 
removed and had been damaged by the leaking water anyway. The electrician had 
recommended re-wiring to resolve the issue caused  by the cut lighting cables and the 
insured repairs couldnt  be done  without replacing the old wiring and fuse-box. 
The electricians report shows all sockets  needed upgrading. AXA wouldnt in my view, 
need to do that. But it would need  to replace sockets that it stripped  out, as I said it would 
regarding the lighting cables. The report does recommend re-wiring  due to the lighting  
cables having  been cut but doesnt explain why. And the fact some cables for one particular 
part of the wiring installation have bene  cut doesnt seem  to naturally or obviously result  in a 
conclusion that the whole  installation needs  fixing as a result.  Or that resolving the cabling 
and/or sockets,  couldnt be done without  everything else being  done too. Regulations might 
require that, as Mr M and Miss S have  suggested, but I havent seen an expert opinion 
demonstrating that.  
If Mr M and Miss S accept  my decision and AXA agrees to honour my recommendations, 
Ref: DRN918886112then AXA will have to determine  the price for the work Ive said it must cover the cost of and 
whether any part of that has been covered already by the settlement previously made. The 
settlement didnt include anything for light fittings. It will need to factor a settlement for 
fittings into its consideration.
But Im not going  to allow AXA to take the contingency money into account here. This was a 
large complex and costly  job, the £5,000 contingency amounting to only a fraction of the 
overall cost of insured work. I think it would be highly  unlikely  for such a large job to not 
encounter unforeseen costs along the way. On balance, given the sums and work involved, 
Im satisfied the contingency was most  likely required for insured work. 
 
That means Im not going to add an allowance into my recommendation regarding the 
contingency. In my view that consideration isnt necessary. Therefore, AXA will need to 
calculate what it owes Mr M and Miss S given what Ive said it reasonably needs to provide 
settlement for. In doing that it can, of course,  take into account the original  settlement  it 
made and what that covered. 
missing keys
AXA agreed, during our involvement,  to cover the reasonable replacement cost for missing 
window keys under the policy. I think thats reasonable. But Mr M and Miss S said many  
internal door keys had gone  missing  too. However, the policy  only covers the cost of 
replacing locks where keys for external doors are lost or stolen.  As there  were  many 
contractors working in the property, not all appointed by AXA, it isnt possible to say AXA is 
most likely responsible for the internal door keys being missing.  And the policy doesnt offer 
cover for the cost of replacing those locks. Therefore, Im only going to make  a 
recommendation to AXA to cover the reasonable replacement cost of window locks.
Mr M and Miss S welcomed this finding as far as it went. But said nothing should be done 
under the claim  or policy and, in fact, AXA should replace all locks  as it was its contractors 
that lost the keys.
The difficulty  for Mr M and Miss S in this regard  remains that Im satisfied that contractors 
on site werent entirely working for AXA or solely acting as its agents. I cant  be satisfied 
that the loss occurred as a result of AXAs insured  work. It may have done. But it is just as 
possible that it happened during private works when the contractors were acting for Mr M 
and Miss S. Therefore, I can reasonably require AXA to cover the loss/replacement as part 
of the claim, but only to the extent allowed for by the policy.  
other minor  damage
Miss S says there was damage  to the property,  such as to the bannister. AXA said damage 
like this could be picked  up and rectified through use of the contingency payment it had 
allowed for within its settlement. I might  be minded to accept this argument,  except  AXA 
has also said the contingency could be used towards electrical repair  costs.  Im not sure 
how far AXA expects  its contingency to stretch.
But nor is it clear to me what  was needed  to restore the woodwork or what  this would have 
cost. From  what  Ive seen I think all woodwork was replaced, Im not sure that was 
necessary  it seems  to me some  filling, sanding and re-varnishing  might have resolved a 
lot of the damage reported as having  resulted from the ceiling removal. And Im aware that 
AXA seems  to think a figure  of around  £1,000 would have resolved the damage.  In the 
Ref: DRN918886113absence of persuasive detail as to the extent  of this damage and its cost for repair  Im going 
to recommend that AXA pays £1,000  to allow  for reasonable repair.
AXA again  consented to this on the proviso  that the contingency  has been spent elsewhere, 
otherwise, it said, the funds for this should come from that.
My view on this point  is the same as that set out regarding electrical work. In summary, Im 
not persuaded this is a valid argument from AXA,  it doesnt persuade me to change  my 
recommendation about this payment. 
Mr M and Miss S sent photos  showing the extent of damage and explained that theyd tried 
some localized repair of the woodwork which had been unsuccessful before opting to 
replace it all. They said the wood  had been  pristine before AXA stripped the property in a 
careless manner and they shouldnt have to live with unsightly  repairs  as a result of that 
carelessness. Further some doors  had warped  so couldnt be repaired and some 
architraves had been disposed of by AXA.
Ive reviewed the schedule of works  AXAs original settlement  was based on. There was 
some allowance in that for some wood to be replaced and for other wood to be sanded and 
varnished or painted. Whilst Ive seen the photos  Mr M and Miss S have sent Im not 
convinced they showed more damage than that which is accounted for in the settlement 
and by the £1,000  I said provisionally seemed fair. 
Mr M and Miss S also showed evidence that their kitchen blind was damaged.  I told AXA it 
seemed it had removed  this during  strip-out work and not stored  it properly. I said it should 
repair or replace  this item.  In response AXA said it had no comment to make.
plumbing
AXA agreed to an additional payment in respect  of the costs requested by Mr M and Miss S 
for this of £5,121.25, plus VAT. If this hasnt been paid already Ill likely recommend in my 
final decision  that it is paid, plus interest* from the date Mr M and Miss S paid for the work.
AXA said it agreed with my findings  and didnt say this had been paid already. Mr M and 
Miss S didnt object  to what  Id said here but added that they have some snagging issues 
with some plumbing work and they view AXA as being responsible for this. 
I dont know the extent of the problems Mr M and Miss S have. I think much of the plumbing 
work was done  following AXAs cash settlement. That being the case AXA has no liability 
for the work  that was carried  out, the cash payment  ended its liability. If Mr M and Miss S 
can show AXA that the problems theyre  now having  stem  from any of the work its 
contractor did as part of insured works prior to the cash settlement being made then Id 
expect it to consider  that. 
annex kitchen
AXA accepted some work was needed here but Mr M and Miss S said that the work 
couldnt be done as AXA intended as current building regulations wouldnt allow  it. The 
kitchen, at a higher cost than AXA had allowed for, had to be moved to a larger  space. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show the kitchen had to be moved. Im not minded to make 
any recommendation in this respect.
Ref: DRN918886114Mr M and Miss S explained again  why the kitchen had to be moved but said their costs  
submitted for work were  purely like-for-like and didnt  include any extra costs associated  
with moving the kitchen,  or the material difference with the new kitchen.
My comments on this issue  werent  made as a result  of the costs  submitted but because  
Mr M and Miss S had said they wanted  to know what AXA was reasonably liable for given 
they couldnt, in their view, reinstate as before. My position remains  that Ive not seen any 
expert evidence showing  the kitchen had to be moved. Without evidence I cant  fairly 
adjudge the situation, which in turn means I cant fairly make a finding  that recommends 
AXA makes  a further payment in respect of reinstating the annex  kitchen.
bathroom suites
Mr M and Miss S have  claimed for reinstating  three bathrooms at the property. AXA allowed 
£6,000 for reinstating two of them. But it didnt  give a breakdown  of the costs  allowed for. It 
felt the suites didnt need replacing, whereas Mr M and Miss S said they did as they were  
damaged during strip-out and/or when  they were  removed for other work to be done. AXAs 
costs not being broken down is problematic for it  but for me to recommend it pays more 
I still have to be satisfied  that insured work Mr M and Miss S had to carry out likely cost 
more than this sum.
In all three bathrooms the top row of tiling was damaged when AXAs  contractor removed 
the ceilings. Mr M and Miss S, using their contractor, completely re-tiled the bathrooms  and 
the suites were taken out to facilitate this. When the suites  were removed, unavoidable and 
irreparable damage was done and so the suites were replaced. But they also reported 
some staining and impact  damage from the ceilings  being taken down and that one shower 
wasnt working. In addition the configuration of the annex room was changed, with a wall 
being taken down and fixtures moved.
Im not persuaded that the bathrooms  needed complete re-tiling  due to the top row of tiles 
being damaged.  That seems  quite drastic  cornicing or an alternate tile could have  been  
used at ceiling height. And Mr M and Miss Ss report also confirms  that taking  the suite out 
wasnt necessary for re-tiling  the room. And Im not persuaded  the suites were damaged 
when the strip-out  work  was completed either. Whilst  Mr M and Miss S report one toilet  seat 
was damaged, that wouldnt have necessitated  a whole new toilet. So Im not persuaded 
that the insured work that Mr M and Miss S completed at their home  likely  cost more than 
the £6,000 allowed for by AXA.
Mr M and Miss S have  raised similar  arguments as they have in response  to other 
provisional findings Ive made. Essentially that they couldnt make  appropriate matches  and 
they shouldnt  have to put up with poorly  matched  items or things that were different to that 
which they had before due to AXAs failings. But also that the policy covers for undamaged  
matching parts of a bathroom suite.
Im still not convinced that AXA caused  any loss of match  to occur.  And even if it did, or a 
loss occurred as a result of the claim, I wouldnt necessarily  require  an insurer  to resolve 
that by reinstating  everything. Even where a policy allows for such. It is my role to make a 
fair and reasonable decision,  even  in respect  of policy wording. It wouldnt be fair for a 
settlement to be made that was disproportionate to the loss caused. For example, a broken 
toilet seat that has to be replaced but which cant be exactly matched. A toilet  seat costs 
relatively little and it would be easy to find something that contrasted or went with the room, 
even if it didnt exactly match the suite.  This would be different to what  was there before but 
Ref: DRN918886115living with that would  be a fair compromise.  The alternative,  in terms of work and cost, to 
replace the whole suite and all that goes with that, wouldnt be fair. It would be 
disproportionate to the loss, which is the dissatisfaction  of living  with the change. Theres no 
evidence that such a change would devalue the home. Or cause any other loss. And my 
view here extends to the situation with the tiling.
Having reviewed matters  Im not convinced that Mr M and Miss Ss reasonable costs for 
reinstating their home following the water leak extended beyond that allowed for by AXA. 
Im not going  to recommend it pays anything  more.
bi-fold doors
AXA seemed to think Miss S had suggested it had agreed to pay for these. Im not 
persuaded that is the case. I think the confusion has arisen because there was an 
uncertainty whether this private  work  could  be factored into the insured repairs  whilst AXAs 
contractor was still carrying out that work. As it was, Miss S got them  fitted privately in the 
gap of time between AXAs contractors leaving site and it offering a cash  settlement for the 
reinstatement work.
other damage
Mr M and Miss S say the driveway and fireplace were damaged during the work, as well as
various instances of damage occurring around  the house, such  as but not limited to; chipped
and cracked tiles (other than tile damage I've mentioned already in the kitchen and
bathrooms), the shower door and the toilet flush. I'm not going to make  AXA do anything
regarding any of this reported damage. I simply don't  have enough evidence  to persuade  me
that it was either done during the course  of the repair, or done  by AXA's contractors working  
solely for it, or, if it was, due to negligence.
Mr M and Miss S said they were disappointed  by my findings  in this respect. They said 
there was plenty of evidence that showed  AXA hadnt taken  care of their home. And setting 
aside for a minute the issue of care and who had caused the damage, the driveway  had 
certainly been subject  to increased use during the claim so that should be taken into 
account with any damage being settled for.
The overriding  difficulty  I have with attributing damage to AXA is that, as explained above, 
not all contractors at the property  were  working for AXA, and even those that did carry out 
some work on behalf of AXA,  also then, at times, acted directly for Mr M and Miss S. Whilst 
not wishing to disappoint Mr M and Miss S, Im not going to say AXA should accept liability  
for these  issues. If the driveway was used more  and suffered wear as result, that is on 
account of the claim and/or private work.  That isnt something AXA needs to offer 
settlement or compensate  for.
professional fees
AXA agreed to pay 10% of the net contract value to allow for surveyor's fees.  Mr M and
Miss S want that to extend to the settlements I've suggested AXA should make as part of my 
decision. I see no good reason not to suggest AXA pays this; as I understand it the policy 
allows for it and AXA was happy to offer it initially. To be clear though not all of my awards 
are to do with the contract value for insured work  or reinstatement necessary due to AXA's 
failure to take care when stripping the property.  So the 10% wouldn't,  for example, apply to 
any settlements I've suggested are made  to account  for financial loss or contents  items.
Ref: DRN918886116VAT
In response to my provisional findings  Mr M and Miss S said they expect AXA to pay them 
VAT on everything as AXA can then claim this back,  whereas they cannot. 
Whether AXA can reclaim VAT isnt relevant to whether or not it should pay such in 
settlement of the claim.  Its quite  standard for an insurer to make  settlement against 
estimates for repair  less any VAT shown on the paperwork, until such  a time as its shown 
that a cost regarding VAT has been incurred.  I havent seen that AXAs  settlement was 
unfair in terms of VAT i.e. that it didnt pay VAT even  though a cost for this was incurred by 
Mr M and Miss S.  
claim costs
In response to my provisional findings,  Mr M and Miss S have  asked that AXA record  any 
costs related to its damage and delay outside of the claim and policy.  They  dont want the 
non-water damage related costs to affect their cover, including the premium.
It is the case that most insurers  record all costs  related to a claim,  howsoever caused. 
Thats because it all relates to risk. But its also often the case  that insurers price  for cover 
is based on whether  there have been  claims made,  or sometimes if costs have passed  a 
certain threshold. What insurers view as relevant, including what if any threshold is applied,  
varies. But the total value  of the claim usually  isnt relevant. At this stage, I havent seen 
that Mr M and Miss Ss policy has been  or most likely will be affected because  of costs  
attributable to AXAs unfair actions during the course of the claim. Therefore, Im not going 
to make any recommendation against  it in this respect.
change in outcome  from investigators findings
In response to my provisional findings  Mr M and Miss S said they felt my change in position 
from that stated by the investigator showed a lack of consistency.  They  said they hoped  
that as part of my final review Id revert to the investigators findings.
I appreciate my view of the complaint has disappointed  Mr M and Miss S, and Im sorry for 
that. But this service operates a two-stage process  whereby if the parties dont agree to 
settle following  our investigators  involvement  the case is reviewed by an ombudsman. That 
is a complete review,  from the top. Whilst we strive  for consistency across  broad complaint 
issues, the point  of the second stage review  is that it brings a fresh  set of eyes  to the 
situation. On occasion  that means  issues are viewed differently. On a complaint of the 
magnitude of Mr M and Miss Ss, Im not surprised  that I didnt agree entirely with our 
investigators view. But I remain  satisfied, as stated provisionally and now here in my final 
decision, that my findings are fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
court action
Im aware that Mr M and Miss S felt that if my provisional findings didnt change and result 
in a markedly increased recommendation, theyd be unlikely to accept my final decision.  My 
final findings havent resulted in my markedly increasing my recommendation as to what 
I think AXA should pay. Regardless  of how Mr M and Miss S feel about my findings, as 
there is so much at stake, I think theyll likely want to obtain legal advice before deciding 
what to do. To facilitate  that Ive set the decision deadline to two months (its usually one).  
Ref: DRN918886117my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. However,  as AXA Insurance UK Plc has already paid 
£160,200, during our involvement and which is above our award limit, my upholding of this 
complaint is restricted in that I can only recommend  that further  payments and/or actions 
that will likely result in payments are made.
Therefore, I recommend  that AXA Insurance UK Plc:
Pays Mr M and Miss S £17,360.04 for replacement carpets, plus interest*  from 
15 July 2018 until settlement  is made.
When considering the contents claim, accept the damaged curtains and poles  were  
damaged by it and make settlement accordingly.
Pays Mr M and Miss S £1,500 compensation.
Reimburses half of any costs incurred by Mr M and Miss S in respect of rent, storage 
and duplicated  bills (across the two properties), for the period 18 January 2018 until 
16 April 2018.  Plus interest* from the date each partially  reimbursed amount was paid 
until settlement is made.
Reimburses half of any reasonable additional  costs incurred by Mr M and Miss S in 
respect of utility and gardening bills that they otherwise  wouldnt have had to pay if they 
werent living elsewhere, between the period 17 January  2018  and 16 April 2018. Plus 
interest* from the date each partially  reimbursed amount  was paid until settlement is 
made.
Reimburses Mr M and Miss S the £680  paid for cleaning the alternative address, if they 
show that this hasnt been paid already.  
Even if the £680 (less the excess) has been paid, if interest wasnt added  pay an amount 
equivalent to interest* on the sum of £680  from 1 May 2018 (the date the bill was paid)  
until settlement is made.
Pays an amount for reinstating the main kitchen,  taking  into account my comments  
above.
Pays £5,000 for reinstating wardrobes.
Pays £382.25 for fixing the damaged  underfloor  heating, plus interest* from the date this 
was paid for until settlement is made.
Pays an additional amount, in line with my comments above, to account for necessary 
electrical work  not yet accounted  for.
Pays an amount to replace window locks.
Pays £1,000 in respect of repairing woodwork.
Repairs or replaces, as necessary, or pays Mr M and Miss S to repair or replace as 
necessary, the damaged kitchen blind.
Pays £5,121.25, plus VAT for agreed additional plumbing work, plus interest* from the 
date this was paid for until settlement  is made.
For any additional costs  for buildings reinstatement work, found due here, or that are found 
to be due as the result  of any further review  recommended here,  pay an amount  equating  to 
10% of their cost to Mr M and Miss S, to account for professional fees.
As this is a recommendation only, even if Mr M and Miss S accept  this decision within  the 
time limit set, AXA Insurance UK Plc will not be bound to follow  my recommendations. If 
Mr M and Miss S accept  my final decision, and AXA Insurance UK Plc chooses not to follow 
Ref: DRN918886118my recommendations, its doubtful that Mr M and Miss S will be able to pursue it in the 
courts. They  may wish to take legal advice before making any decision about what to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If AXA Insurance 
UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from any interest due to Mr M and 
Miss S, it should  tell them  how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr M and Miss S a certificate showing  this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9188861