K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Ms M took out a mortgage with the Halifax in 2002 and bought the PPI at around the same 
time.
The PPI was part of a packaged  protection policy called a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP could  be made  up of three different elements  a PPI policy, life cover and 
critical illness cover. Ms M took all three  elements but she has only complained  to us about 
the PPI, so thats what Ill look at in this decision.
Ms M says she didnt know the PPI was optional. She says Halifax led her to believe it was 
part of the package and a requirement of the mortgage.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Ms M disagrees and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I know  this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Ms M she had a choice about PPI and get her agreement 
to it. Because  the sale was so long ago, Halifax doesnt have any of Ms Ms PPI paperwork. I 
dont think this is unusual  or surprising. But from what  we know of how Halifax sold these 
policies around  this time and the documents weve seen in the past, I think its likely the 
paperwork Ms M wouldve  seen wouldve made  it clear enough  the PPI was optional. I know  
this isnt how Ms M remembers things and its possible, as she says,  that Halifax  didnt follow  
its usual sales process  at the time and she was told she had to have PPI as part of the 
mortgage. But without  anything else to back up what Ms M says, I think  its more likely   
based on what we know about Halifaxs usual sales process  that it made Ms M aware  she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and she agreed  to it. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Ms M, so it needed to make sure it was right for her. 
I dont know what steps Halifax took to do this but, from what Ive seen of the policy  terms 
Halifax has given us and what  Ms M say of her circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. I say 
this because: 
I havent seen anything to make  me think Ms M wasnt  eligible  for the policy. 
Its possible Halifax didnt advise her of the main policy exclusions and limitations which  
couldve made  it more  difficult for someone  to make a successful claim. But I havent 
Ref: DRN93560692seen anything to make me think its likely  Ms M was caught by any of these, so she 
couldve claimed the full policy benefit  had she needed to.
I think the PPI gave Ms M useful protection. She says she got sickness  and redundancy 
pay and had some savings. But the PPI couldve covered  her mortgage repayments for 
up to two years if she was off work because of sickness  or an accident or if she lost her 
job. So it couldve lasted much longer than her sick pay and wouldve paid out on top of 
it. It would also have  meant Ms M didnt need  to use her savings to make  her 
repayments. 
A mortgage is a long-term and significant  financial commitment, and your home is at risk 
if you fall behind on your repayments. So I think having PPI wouldve given                   
Ms M the peace of mind  that her mortgage  was covered for some  time if things got 
difficult.
I dont know what Halifax said to Ms M about  the cost of the policy. But it looks  as if she 
could afford it, so I dont  think  its cost made  it unsuitable  for her.
As well as making sure the cover was right for Ms M, Halifax  also had to give her enough 
clear information about the key features of the PPI so she could make  an informed choice 
about whether  to buy it. Halifax  hasnt said much about what  it told her. But, as Ive said,  I 
think its likely she chose to buy the PPI and it was right for her  so I think  clearer 
information would only have confirmed this to her. I dont  think  its likely it wouldve stopped 
her buying  the cover.
I dont think Ms M has lost out because of what Halifax may have done  wrong,  so theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9356069