K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited are now pursuing him for a debt that he 
thought had been settled.  
background
Mr P took out a fixed-sum loan agreement in September  2009  with a third-party creditor  to 
help fund the purchase of a car. He eventually returned the vehicle to the main  finance 
provider and assumed that the outstanding balance of any debt would be cleared.
Mr P complained when  he was subsequently  contacted by PRA Group  in 2019 seeking 
repayment on the £1,177.68 that remained outstanding on his account,  as he said it was 
cleared when he returned the vehicle. 
PRA Group  said that they purchased the debt from the third-party creditor in February  2014,  
and explained  that the debt was in relation to a top-up loan used  to assist in purchasing  the 
vehicle and so was separate to the vehicles main finance agreement,  which was arranged  
with a different  creditor. So they maintain that the balance  remains payable.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt think  PRA Group were not entitled 
to pursue the debt given that it had been assigned  to them.  Mr P disagreed, and says that he 
never received a letter supposedly sent by the debt collectors in 2015  regarding the 
purchase of the debt.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I appreciate that Mr P may have  considered  that the debt had been settled when he returned 
his vehicle. But the debt in which he is now being  pursued is in relation to a top up loan to 
assist in financing  the purchase of the vehicle. This was taken out with a third-party creditor  
and was in addition to the main finance agreement  for the purchase of the vehicle, which 
was with a different creditor.  So when Mr P returned the vehicle to that creditor,  it may well 
have settled the finance agreement. But given that the top up loan was not secured on the 
vehicle and was not with the same creditor, Mr P was still liable to pay this debt 
notwithstanding the sale of the vehicle.
PRA Group  subsequently  purchased the outstanding debt from the third-party creditor it was 
taken out with. I appreciate Mr P may not have  received any correspondence in this regard, 
as he says he did not receive  a letter that was supposedly sent in 2015 informing him of this. 
But even if he did not receive the letter, it would not prevent PRA Group from pursuing the 
debt if it remains enforceable under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, irrespective of whether it 
has been a few years since  the debtor has been contacted in relation to the debt (so long as 
it falls within  the relevant  statutory limitation  periods).
 
It does not fall within the remit of this service to declare a debt unenforceable, and Mr P 
should seek separate legal advice if he feels this is the case. But seeing  as there is currently  
no reason to suggest that the debt is unenforceable, I dont think PRA Group  have acted 
unreasonably by contacting Mr P with a view to settling the outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN94179762I understand Mr P also has concerns with how the loan was sold. But given that it was not 
PRA Group  who sold it, this isnt something I can hold them responsible for, so I am unable  
to comment on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9417976