K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt taken his mental health issues  
into consideration with regards  to his loan repayments. He says Barclays  has done  nothing 
to help him in spite of his condition. He wants Barclays to write off at least  half of the debt 
and also to apologise for the way its treated him.  
background
Mr H applied for a loan with Barclays in May 2015. He was offered a loan for £6,000 which 
he accepted  and began  to make monthly payments of £161.63.  In August 2016 Barclays 
received an approach from a debt charity on Mr Hs behalf. As a result Barclays agreed to 
accept reduced payments  on Mr Hs loan and stopped any further interest accruing on the 
balance. But it did close the account and issued a default notice at that point. Barclays  
subsequently received  a number of letters with new offers of reduced monthly payments 
which it acknowledged but it also continued to make Mr H aware of the outstanding arrears 
balance.
However, by late 2017 the debt charity made Barclays aware it was no longer working  with 
Mr H as he hadnt continued his payment arrangement with them.
In June 2018 another business representing Mr H wrote to Barclays  to explain that it would 
be restructuring his repayments  as part of an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). It 
asked Barclays to put the account on hold for 30 days and to provide an up to date balance 
on his loan. 
But in August 2018 Mr H complained to Barclays that it hadnt acknowledged   or done 
anything to help with  the mental health issues hed suffered, which  had forced him to suffer 
financial difficulties.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. It said there was nothing  on its file to indicate he 
had made  it aware  of any mental issues either at the time of the application or subsequently.  
Unhappy with this outcome  Mr H brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. She said there was no evidence that Mr H had made Barclays aware of his mental  
health issues and she said she would have expected Barclays  to have  added  some notes 
into its system  if the subject had been  discussed.  She noted  that Mr H himself was unsure of 
when he might have  discussed the matter with Barclays. She urged Mr H to contact Barclays  
to get his records updated to reflect his health  situation.
Mr H didnt agree with the outcome  and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Therefore the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Hs ongoing mental health issues.  And I have some  sympathy  for 
the position hes now in with an IVA against his name. But I dont  think Barclays  has done 
anything wrong  here  which  I know will disappoint Mr H  so Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN93393402Mr H says that  in 2015 when he took out the loan  he was suffering  with mental health 
issues and made Barclays aware  of this. But Barclays says it has no record  of Mr H making 
it aware.  While  I dont  dispute Mr Hs recollections of events he has said that hes unsure 
when he did tell Barclays and what means of communication he used. 
Barclays has provided notes of all the contact its had with Mr C since 2015. And Ive 
considered these notes very carefully   but theres no evidence to show that Mr H spoke to 
Barclays during this time  apart from a non-related  matter  and no evidence that he 
discussed his health issues. And theres no evidence to show  that he spoke with Barclays 
again until 2018  after Barclays had received the notice about his IVA. So I cant  say that 
Barclays has been made aware  of Mr Hs condition or that it failed to take it into 
consideration. So I dont think Barclays has done anything  wrong  there. 
Looking at the situation in 2015 when Mr H applied for a loan I can see that his bank 
statement showed a regular income  being  paid in and no apparent financial difficulties. And I 
note he continued  to make the loan payments for over a year without any problems. That 
would have suggested to Barclays that he could maintain his loan as intended  so when 
Mr Hs account did fall into arrears  I think it was reasonable  for Barclays  to take the 
approach it did and make Mr H aware  of the situation. 
When the debt charity approached Barclays, I would have expected Barclays  to have acted 
positively and sympathetically towards  Mr Hs situation. And I believe it did as it accepted 
lower payments and stopped any additional  interest being added  to the account. Ive seen 
that it issued a default notice at that time which also gave details of other  things Mr H could 
consider doing  to help  and Ive seen the subsequent letters it sent in 2016 and 2017 which 
reaffirmed the same options. So I think Barclays has treated Mr H fairly with regards to his 
loan account.  
Mr H has said that Barclays failure  to take account of his mental  health  issues  and 
financial difficulties  has led to him going into an IVA. But I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Barclays was aware  of Mr Hs health issues  and I think it dealt with his financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically when it was made aware of them. So I dont think 
Barclays has acted unfairly  here and I wont be asking it to do anything in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339340