K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC was irresponsible to give her a loan that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Ms F applied for a loan in 2017. She says that Barclays  shouldnt  have agreed to the loan 
because she couldnt afford the repayments. She says that as she wasnt  working her 
income was limited because she was receiving benefits. She doesnt think she could ever 
pay back the loan.  At the time she was also suffering from health problems. She has had to 
borrow again and again to meet the repayments and is now trapped  in a spiral  of debt.
The investigator didnt  think Barclays was wrong to lend to Ms F. Although Ms Fs income 
was from benefits  this didnt mean Barclays couldnt  lend to her, as long as it checked the 
loan was affordable.  She thought Barclays had carried out checks on Ms Fs income and her 
spending and had also checked  her credit file.
Ms F didnt agree. She said, in summary,  that Barclays shouldnt have given such  a large  
loan to an unemployed person.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms F applied  for the loan through online banking and, by doing this, she didnt 
discuss her finances with a member  of staff. She decided how much she wanted  to borrow 
and in what way. When she applied for the loan Ms F confirmed to Barclays that she hadnt 
had or didnt foresee a change in her circumstances.
When Ms F applied Barclays needed to assess whether the loan repayments  were 
affordable for her. Ive looked at Barclays records and Im satisfied it assessed and credit 
scored her application. It based its assessment on the transactions  that went  through her 
current account to confirm income and expenditure as well as information from a credit 
reference agency. Her current account  was in credit,  was well maintained, she didnt have 
an overdraft and Barclays didnt  have any record of Ms F telling  it she was in financial 
difficulties.
I appreciate Ms F says that her income  was limited and came entirely from benefits. She 
also says that this income could be cut at any time. But Barclays was required to carry out its 
checks when Ms F applied for the loan.  It isnt reasonable for me to expect Barclays  to 
consider possible  future  changes when assessing  the loan and Ms F said that she didnt 
foresee any.
I understand that Ms F was suffering from some health issues  and she was vulnerable  at the 
time she took the loan. But I cant see that she told Barclays about her situation  and there  is 
no suggestion that Ms F wasnt able to make  her own decisions.
Having looked  at Ms Fs statements  I can see that she used some  of the loan to repay car 
finance and a credit card.  She made  the monthly repayments  on time for over a year before 
she missed the first one in September 2015.  Ms F has said that she was only able to 
Ref: DRN95234072maintain repayments  by borrowing from other providers and by increasing her overall level of 
indebtedness leading  her into a spiral of debt. She has said that she is on benefits and 
struggling with her health, which was made  worse  by her worry about the debt she was in.
Ms F didnt approach Barclays about this so Im afraid I cant conclude that Barclays  should  
have known about these difficulties. Based on the evidence  Ive see I cant  conclude that 
Barclays had any reason to think that Ms F might subsequently find the loan unaffordable or 
that it made  a mistake  or acted irresponsibly  in approving the loan. 
Although I dont consider Barclays did anything wrong at the time it agreed the loan, it does 
have an obligation  to respond positively  and sympathetically to customers  in financial 
difficulty. I note that it has said it will continue to work with Ms F to agree  a suitable 
repayment plan.  She has told Barclays that she has contacted a debt charity for help and 
Barclays stopped  charging interest and fees on the loan to allow her time to make a 
repayment offer. If she hasnt already  done  so, I would urge Ms F to provide  Barclays with 
details of her current income and expenditure so that it can come  to a mutually acceptable 
arrangement. If Ms F doesnt feel Barclays has met its obligation or hasnt treated her fairly  
in responding  to her financial problems then she is entitled to raise a further  complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9523407