K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about the service she received from Lloyds Bank  PLC when trying to 
manage her account online.
background
Mrs P has severe hearing loss and is unhappy  that the security procedures  Lloyds  has in 
place for setting up new payments online require her to take instructions  over the phone.  
She feels these procedures are not accessible and are a breach of the Equality Act 2010.
Mrs P is also unhappy that Lloyds  customer  service team  will only communicate  with her 
about her complaint by phone or post,  and wont  use email.  And Mrs P thinks Lloyds may 
have placed some restriction on her account as she was unable  to register her new mobile  
phone for the mobile banking app.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P didnt  accept  the adjudicators 
recommendation and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this compliant.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why below.
Its not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to judge whether Lloyds has breached the 
Equality Act. This is an issue for the courts. But I must take the relevant law into account 
when deciding whether I think Lloyds has treated Mrs P fairly in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the Equality Act, businesses must  take reasonable steps to remove  barriers people 
face as a result of their disability so that, as far as possible, people with disabilities  receive  
the same  service as people who dont have a disability. This is known as the duty to make 
reasonable adjustments.
Part of the process for setting up a new payee through Lloyds online banking  involves the 
customer receiving a phone call from Lloyds.  In this phone call, the customer is instructed to 
enter a code displayed on their online  banking  screen. As Mrs P has severe hearing loss, 
she cant hear the instruction.
Lloyds has said that the message in the phone call is automated and so Mrs P can just wait 
around 20 seconds after picking up the call and then enter  the code on her screen.  Its also 
sent us a copy of the script  for the message,  which  has been  forwarded to Mrs P. And 
Lloyds has said Mrs P can select  whether the call comes to her home  or mobile  phone.
I appreciate Mrs Ps strength of feeling that requiring her to receive  a phone call is 
inaccessible and unnecessary, and I understand her reluctance to act on an instruction that 
she cant hear.
But the message  is an automated recording and Mrs P has been given a copy  of the script, 
so she knows what it will say. So I think Lloyds suggestion that Mrs P can enter the code 
Ref: DRN90618052without actually hearing the message is reasonable. And as Mrs P will be expecting the call, 
can select the number  the call will come  to and is only entering  a code displayed on her 
online banking screen, not providing any other  details over the phone, I also think  the 
security risk here is minimal. So I dont think Lloyds is treating Mrs P unreasonably in 
requiring this code  to be entered  over the phone as part of its procedures.
Lloyds has also said that a new payee  can be set up in branch and by using the mobile  
banking app. And Mrs P has confirmed  that she has successfully set up a new payee using 
the app. So I think Lloyds also has reasonable alternative procedures in place  that Mrs P 
can use. And so I think Lloyds has treated  Mrs P fairly in relation to the security procedures  it 
has in place and I dont think it would be fair to require it to do anything more.
When raising this issue  with Lloyds, Mrs P was unhappy that its complaints department will 
only communicate with her by phone or post, and not by email.
Lloyds has explained  that it doesnt think emails are secure, and it is for businesses  to 
decide how to keep customers details secure. I dont think  responding to her complaint by 
post has led to a significant delay  for Mrs P. And Lloyds has said Mrs Ps initial complaint 
email was forwarded to the complaints department,  who then responded to it. So I think  
Lloyds has communicated  with Mrs P reasonably and I dont think Mrs P has received a poor 
level of customer service  from Lloyds as a result  of it refusing to communicate  about her 
complaint via email.
During this complaint, Mrs P tried to register a new mobile phone for the mobile banking app, 
but was unable to do so. And she thinks Lloyds may have  placed  some restriction  on her 
account, as her husband was able to register a new mobile  phone  successfully.
Lloyds has said there are no additional  security  requirements when registering a new mobile  
phone for the mobile app using online banking, so it thinks there may have been some  issue  
with Mrs Ps computer or browser. Lloyds  has also sent us screenshots  from its system 
showing that there are no markers or indicators  affecting Mrs Ps access to her account.
Mrs P has now been able to register her new phone for the mobile banking app and so I 
cant say exactly why she was unable to do so initially. And, as Lloyds has shown there are 
no markers or indicators on her account affecting  her access  to it, I dont think  theres 
enough evidence  for me to say that it has treated Mrs P unfairly here.
As part of its response to her complaint, Lloyds paid Mrs P £50 as compensation for poor 
customer service  and not explaining to her sooner that she could just enter  the code without 
hearing the telephone  message.  As I think Lloyds has treated Mrs P fairly, I dont think  it 
should be required to do anything further, or to pay Mrs P any further compensation.
Ref: DRN90618053my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision by 10 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9061805