K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her an HSBC  Plus packaged 
bank account  in October 2007. Ms C paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Ms Cs account was opened as an HSBC Plus account in October 2007. The Plus account  
was rebranded  to HSBC Advance in February 2010, and it was replaced by HSBC 
Insurance Aspects in November 2014.  
Ive considered the initial sale in October 2007 in this decision.
One of our adjudicators thought that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Ms C and 
recommended that HSBC  should pay her compensation. 
HSBC didnt agree so the case has been passed to me  an ombudsman   to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Ms Cs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Ms Cs complaint a lot of thought, Im upholding it. Im not convinced  HSBC sold 
the account the way it shouldve. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms C was given a fair choice when  she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Ms C has given a consistent recollection of the time she opened the Plus account. Shes 
explained that at the time she was looking  to move her account from another bank, and that 
she was only presented with the option  of opening  the HSBC  Plus packaged account. She 
says that she did know about some  of the benefits  that came  with the account, and although 
she told HSBC she didnt  need them, she didnt have an option  but to pay for the account 
and receive the benefits anyway.
HSBC says that when Ms C approached  it to open an account,  its systems gave a refer 
decision. Thats to say, the application was neither accepted nor declined;  HSBC says it was 
referred to a specialist department as some  of Ms Cs personal information was missing, and 
HSBC was unable  to verify her address details.
Ref: DRN96427492HSBC goes on to explain that following the referral, it agreed to open the account but the 
only account option sanctioned was the Plus account. Again, it says that this was because  it 
lacked some of Ms Cs personal  information and it couldnt verify her address.
Ive thought very carefully about this, but I find it difficult to follow  HSBCs logic. And it hasnt 
provided any further information about why this is the case.
I can see that HSBC took a bank statement from Ms Cs previous bank when it opened her 
account. Presumably  this was to verify the address details shed given. HSBC  hasnt specific  
what other information it lacked before opening the account, but Ms C says she was never 
asked for any further information after the initial application.
Im mindful that it can be common practice  for banks to restrict certain facilities to individuals  
where theres insufficient background  information about them. For example, a lack of credit 
history or an inability to provide acceptable identification. This is usually referred to as a 
credit restricted or basic account.
But thats clearly  not what  happened here.  And Im not persuaded that HSBC offered Ms C 
the Plus account  as a way of mitigating its risks against the missing or incomplete personal  
information that it has referred to. From what I know about the Plus account, it was a current 
account with the availability of full facilities such as a debit card and the ability  to set up 
direct debits. And HSBC  says Ms C had lived in the United Kingdom for several years at the 
time she opened her account. HSBC also approved a £200 overdraft limit on the account. If 
there had been  doubts about  Ms Cs identity or address, it seems  unlikely HSBC wouldve 
done that. 
Having considered everything, Im not satisfied that HSBC  offered  Ms C the chance to open 
a fee-free account, and I dont  think its because  she was ineligible for one. HSBCs 
reasoning seems illogical and without further information or explanation, Im not persuaded 
by it.
I acknowledge that HSBC has pointed out that Ms C already had a bank  account  with a 
different bank, and it says she couldve  continued  to bank there  if she wasnt  happy with 
opening a Plus account. But Im not going to hold Ms Cs actions against her  whatever the 
reasoning behind them  for what HSBC did wrong.
It follows that I uphold  this complaint and HSBC should put things right.
 
putting things right
HSBC should  put Ms C in the position  shed be in now if HSBC hadnt  mis-sold her the 
account. I require  HSBC to: 
Pay Ms C the amount  she paid each month for the Plus, Advance,  and Insurance  
Aspects accounts;
Ref: DRN96427493Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year;
If Ms C saved  money because of a better rate on her overdraft,  loan or savings  account  
by having the packaged account  and HSBC  can show  exactly  how much Ms C saved, it 
may deduct these  savings from the amount it pays her. HSBC must  explain clearly and 
simply to Ms C how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Ms C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right as Ive outlined above.
Im required  to ask Ms C to accept  or reject  my decision before 17 November  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9642749