K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr H in his capacity as director of a limited company, which I 
will call Company G. Mr H says that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC failed to remove two charges 
registered against Company G at Companies House. Mr H is concerned  at the potential  
effect of this on potential purchasers of Company G.
Mr H has also complained  about  other matters relating to Company G but an ombudsman  
has decided that those matters are out of time, so I will not refer to them any further. The 
only issue we are able to consider is that set out above.
background
On 10 July 1986 Barclays registered  a debenture at Companies House over the fixed  and 
floating assets of Company G as security  for a loan. On 13 December 1996  Barclays 
registered a chattel mortgage against a specific asset of Company Gs, an item of 
machinery, as security for a loan.  The loans were settled in 2003 but it wasnt  until 2018 that 
Mr H discovered  the charges still remained on the record at Companies House. He 
immediately took steps to file the forms at Companies House to show  the debenture and 
mortgage as having been satisfied.
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays  didnt remove the charges as soon as the finance  was repaid. 
Barclays says that it will only release a charge at Companies House after a direct request to 
do so from the customer. Barclays says there  is no record of Company G requesting that the 
charge be removed from the record at Companies  House.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He researched 
the position and, having done so, was satisfied that Barclays was under no obligation to 
remove the charge.
Mr H, on behalf of Company G, asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. He 
questions how a manager or a mortgagee would know  that a charge had been registered 
at Companies House unless the bank notified  them of this. Barclays was advised  that the 
loans had been repaid  in full. It was up to Barclays either to contact Companies House or to 
advise Mr H to do so, but the bank failed to do either of those things.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. My reasons are given  below.
The process for removing  a charge  at Companies  House is for a form, known as MR04, to 
be filed at Companies  House confirming the charge  has been satisfied. Only the director of 
the company  in this case Mr H on behalf of Company G  needs to sign the form. There  is 
no requirement for Barclays to become involved in this process.
So once the loans had been paid off in 2003, it was up to Mr H to ensure that Company Gs 
assets were no longer  encumbered. This isnt something Barclays  is under any obligation to do.  
Ref: DRN91450382Generally a debenture or charge over a companys assets will be left in place to provide 
continuing security  for any future finance, should the company require it. In this case, 
Company G did not take on any further borrowing from Barclays,  but that doesnt mean 
Barclays was required to be proactive about removing the charges. 
Im also satisfied that Barclays was under no obligation to give Mr H advice about filing 
documents at Companies House. Barclays role was limited  to providing banking  services to 
Company G, not giving advice to Mr H on how to run his business. I would have expected  
Company Gs accountants to have advised  Mr H about which documents  he needed to file at 
Companies House.
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly  about this matter,  but after considering  everything  he and 
Barclays have said about whats  happened, Im satisfied Barclays  hasnt done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
Company G to accept  or reject my decision before  5 June 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9145038