K820x#14complaint
Miss W is not happy MBNA limited, provided her with a credit  card that doesnt include an 
interest free promotion for purchases. 
background
In February 2018,  Miss W entered  into a credit card agreement with MBNA online. Prior to 
making her application, she completed  some eligibility checks using a comparison website. 
The checks  showed  she was pre-approved for a number of different credit cards  including  an 
MBNA card, which had an interest  free purchases promotion. Miss W is unhappy as in    
May 2018, she discovered that the card shed taken out only had an interest free promotion 
for balance  and cash transfers.  She believes MBNA made a technical error, as there  was no 
reason for her to enter into an agreement,  which she believes had less favourable  terms. As 
such, she believes the contractual interest theyve applied to her account should  be 
removed.
MBNA considered the complaint and said they didnt  do anything  wrong.  They said they 
appreciate Miss W may have been  eligible for a number of different cards. However, the 
agreement she decided  to take out didnt have an interest free promotion for purchases. 
They also explained that Miss W was asked to review the terms and conditions prior to 
digitally signing her acceptance.
Two investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt  uphold it. In summary,  they said MBNA 
provided Miss W with the credit card agreement she applied  for and accepted,  so there were 
no grounds to suggest the interest should be removed.
As Miss W disagreed, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint because:  
The terms of Miss Ws signed  agreement say interest will be charged  on all 
purchases at an annual variable rate of 19.9%. At the start of the agreement it states: 
These are our terms and conditions for the credit card upon which we intend  to rely. 
For your own benefit and protection, you should read these terms carefully before  
signing them. I would therefore  have reasonably expected Miss W to have reviewed  
the terms and conditions and made sure she was happy with them, before she 
signed the agreement.  
Miss W has suggested  she accepted  different terms and conditions, but I havent 
seen any evidence  to suggest this was the case.  Miss W has provided screen shots  
that suggest she was looking at a number of different cards at the time of her 
application, but none of the screen  shots  suggest  she accepted different terms. 
Ref: DRN97760282After entering into the agreement, Miss W was sent a card in the post and a letter  
that provided online activation  instructions. The letter  highlighted the fact the 
agreement had a 0% promotion  on balance  transfers and provided a warning that 
interest would  be charged on purchases, if the balance wasnt cleared in full each 
month. Specifically,  it said:  Important:  if you pay your balance in full every month to 
avoid interest on card purchases, please consider whether making a transfer is right 
for you. Card purchases will only remain interest free if you continue to pay the whole 
balance (including  the amount of any transfer) in full every month, otherwise interest  
will be payable.  This was therefore  a further  opportunity for Miss W to check the 
terms of her agreement, before  she made any purchases.
As Miss W decided to make  purchases using her card, and didnt pay the balance in 
full each month, interest was applied in line with the terms and conditions  of her 
agreement. The interest was also clearly  detailed in Miss Ws online monthly 
statements. So, there are no reasonable grounds  to conclude MBNA should  refund 
the interest theyve  correctly applied to her account.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9776028