K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2000.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So, to keep  things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.
Miss L says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss L says the PPI was added without her knowledge. But the application form for the 
store card had a section about  PPI and Miss L has signed this to say she wanted the 
cover. So I think its more likely FICL  made it clear that Miss L didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  
remember this. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss L got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
The information FICL gave Miss L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  
But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover, despite  
the sick pay she says she would have received. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9092988