K822xcomplaint
Mrs S has complained about the way that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In early 2015 Mrs S entered into an agreement with a company called KG Installation (KGI) 
for the supply and installation of a solar  panel  system.  The  purchase price  was £9,199 and 
was funded by a loan that KGI arranged with Shawbrook over a 10-year term.  With interest, 
the amount to be repaid  was £14,366.89 in total.
Mrs S says she was told by KGI that the financial benefits generated by the system would 
cover the cost of the loan and effectively  pay for itself. Those benefits come  in the form of 
reduced energy  bills and receiving Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments from selling excess  
energy back to the grid. However,  the solar panels havent performed as Mrs S expected,  
and she has faced difficulties making  the loan payments.
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held jointly and severally liable to the same extent as 
the supplier for any misrepresentation  or breach of contract.  So,  Mrs S made a claim to 
Shawbrook and asked  for a full unwind of the agreement, by removing the solar panels  and 
refunding payments made.
Initially, Shawbrook declined the claim and said there was no evidence of a 
misrepresentation, or that the system  was not performing as had been  expected.   But it did 
offer Mrs S £200 compensation for the delay in dealing with her concerns.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, Mrs S referred her complaint  to this Service.   One of 
our investigators started to review everything but Shawbrook reconsidered its position and 
made an offer of compensation.  The offer was to make the system self-funding by 
restructuring the loan to ensure the payments would be covered by the actual  benefits  Mrs S 
was likely to receive over the 10-year loan term.
The investigator issued  her assessment on the complaint  and concluded the offer made by 
Shawbrook was fair and reasonable.  She noted the offer was calculated  using guidance 
from an industry expert and in line with what our Service  would usually recommend in such 
circumstances.  
Shawbrook calculated that the actual  benefits  the system would generate Mrs S over 10 
years had a total value  of £8,290.79.  So,  it provided  four options of how the loan could be 
restructured and Mrs Ss payments adjusted for her to choose from.  Depending upon  the 
option chosen, Mrs S could also receive  a refund for any overpayments  shes  made  to date.
Mrs S representative asked for clarification of some  points relating to the offer.  In summary, 
it said:
Mrs S had been in arrears and received a default notice for the loan; so asked 
whether the compensation offer include any penalties she may have incurred.
Would Mrs S credit  file be corrected to reflect the adjustments and remove  adverse 
entries.
It felt that in the circumstances a payment of £300 for distress  and inconvenience 
would be more  appropriate than the £200  previously offered.
Ref: DRN92958202Mrs S is currently making reduced  payments towards the loan as part of a debt 
management plan,  and so asked whether those reduced payments could continue to 
be made after the loan is restructured.
Shawbrook confirmed that Mrs S credit  file would be amended to reflect  the changes  and 
agreed to pay £300 for the trouble and upset shed experienced.  It also said the loan 
couldnt be restructured  to factor  in the debt management plan but advised Mrs S could call 
it to discuss options  available  to help her once the offer had been accepted.
Mrs S remained unhappy  with the offer and felt shed be no better off.  As  no agreement  
could be reached  it was requested that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman  for a 
fresh review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
There must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  for there  to be a valid 
claim under s.75.  Im satisfied that relationship  exists in this complaint and Shawbrook has 
accepted it, and so I wont  expand further.
Shawbrooks offer to Mrs S is based  upon  what it considers will make the system self-
funding.  This is to reflect the representation  made  to Mrs S by KGI that the solar  panels 
would generate enough financial  benefits  to effectively pay for themselves.  So,  the key 
issue for me to decide is whether that offer is a fair and reasonable for things to be put right.
Mrs S agreed to purchase  the solar  system,  but on the understanding it would self-fund and 
not cost her anything.  I can understand the attraction of that proposition  but the reality of 
the situation has been something different.   
I understand Mrs S wants to have the agreement fully rewound  having the system 
uninstalled and being refunded all payments  made.  Ive considered  this option, but I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Although the system has not 
performed as Mrs S was expecting,  it has generated  some financial benefits, and I dont 
think the cost and disruption  of removing the solar panels is a proportionate way of resolving  
things.
The system was represented as being  self-funding, and if had it performed as described  to 
Mrs S then there  would  be no misrepresentation and Mrs S wouldnt have any losses.   So 
overall, I consider  the principle of compensating  Mrs S to make the system self-funding is a 
fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
As Ive decided that the principle of making  the system self-funding is fair, my next 
consideration is to ensure the offer made  by Shawbrook achieves that.  
Ive reviewed the offer and am satisfied that follows the methodology that this Service would 
usually set out in such circumstances.  The calculation was based upon  the 
recommendations of an industry expert  and stated the likely benefits over the 10-year loan 
term would  be a total of £8,290.79.  So Shawbrooks offer provided several  options  of how 
the loan could be restructured to ensure no more than that amount is paid.  This is as 
Ref: DRN92958203opposed to the £14,366.89 Mrs S agreed  to pay under  the loan agreement (including  
interest).
I consider that Shawbrooks offer is fair and reasonable and will put Mrs S into the position  
she ought to have been had the system performed as was represented to her.  But  as the 
calculation was undertaken a number of months ago, it will need to be updated.
Im aware Mrs S has experienced financial difficulty and reduced her payments as a result of 
agreeing a debt management plan  and so I understand her concerns  about restructuring 
the loan and how it will affect her monthly  payments.  Shawbrook has assured Mrs S that 
once the offer to put things right is accepted and the loan restructured, it will consider  Mrs S 
position and provide her with any available options.  All financial businesses  have a 
regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly and reasonably help when financial difficulties 
exist.  So,  Im satisfied Shawbrook will honour its assurance in that regard.
In Mrs S original complaint she raised  concerns about commission  being  paid to KGI by 
Shawbrook.  This was reviewed by the investigator and she confirmed  no commission was 
paid.  I have also considered that issue and am satisfied no commission was paid and there 
is no loss suffered by Mrs S in that regard.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Shawbrooks calculation, and offer of £300 for trouble and upset 
are both fair in the circumstances.  Once it has updated the offer, it is for Mrs S to confirm to 
Shawbrook which option she chooses to restructure the loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.   As set 
out above, to put things right it should:
Update its offer to the date of this decision and provide Mrs S the options to choose 
from.
Update Mrs S credit  file to reflect the change.
Pay £300 for the trouble and upset shes experienced whilst waiting for her s.75 
claim to be resolved.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9295820