K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mrs A say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about regular premium MPPI policies taken out to protect a mortgage in 
May 1991, June  1991, October  1991  and October 1992. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr W and Mrs As complaint because:
I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr W and Mrs A clear enough information about the policy.  In 
particular, about  the 90 day deferment period  before a claim could be made.
Nationwide have said that Mr W and Mrs A didnt have to take the policy and that they would 
have been given a leaflet  that drew this significant term to their attention.  They would also 
have been told verbally about  the term. Even if they were given this leaflet, Im not satisfied 
that they would have  been aware of the deferment  period term as it wasnt sufficiently  
prominent to make Mr W and Mrs A aware  of its significance, and I cant be certain what  was 
discussed at the time.
Nationwide have further explained that it would have made a concession  for Mr W and Mrs A 
during the deferment period if they were  unable to make their payments, but this would have 
been an informal arrangement and I dont  think it could have been guaranteed.
In Mr W and Mrs As case, I think the deferment  period wouldve mattered to them  as they 
have said they would  have only received statutory sick pay if they were unwell and unable to 
work. I think  this is important as it means they would have had a limited income and means  
of making their mortgage repayments for 90 days until they could claim on the PPI.
I think its more likely than not that Mr W and Mrs A would have wanted to be able to make  a 
claim on the PPI policy much earlier than 90 days  particularly as they had limited other 
means of making  their repayments.
So, I dont think Mr W and Mrs A wouldve bought the policy if Nationwide had given them 
good enough information about it and I think they have  lost out because of what Nationwide 
did wrong.
Ive taken into account all of Nationwides comments, but I still think I should uphold  the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN95538352what the business needs  to do
Nationwide should  put Mr W and Mrs A in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policies should be cancelled, if they havent been cancelled already,  and 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr W and Mrs A the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr W or Mrs A made a successful  claim under the PPI, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr W and Mrs A a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr W and Mrs As complaint. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  do what Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9553835