K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs W for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £362.36 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage balance in the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £35 a 
month. The benefit of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs W.
At the time,  Mr W was self-employed as a food retailer. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying their mortgage should he be 
unable to work. As he was self-employed, he wouldnt have been entitled to redundancy pay 
either. Mr W has said he had a medical  condition at the time of the sale.
Mrs W was employed  as a senior  clinical nurse. She told us she was entitled to 12 months 
sick pay and at least six months of full pay if she was made redundant. She has also told us 
she had death  in service benefit equal to two times  her salary. Mrs W has said she didnt 
have any health  problems at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN94393322The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN94393323The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
Ref: DRN94393324suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. Section  9 of this form was headed 
insurance and within this section Mr and Mrs W were presented  with two equally clear 
options as to whether or not to take PPI. By ticking the yes box they chose to take it out. 
There is nothing on this form, or any other documents that Ive seen, which  would indicate 
that Mr and Mrs W had to take PPI. And I havent seen evidence which would  lead me to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs W were  pressured  into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs W are silent  on this point in their 
PPI questionnaire. Given that the PPI was sold during a meeting in connection  with a 
mortgage and Lloyds accept it provided advice, Ive considered this to be an advised sale.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs W. It seems  Mr and Mrs W cant remember  clearly what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ws financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs W would have been caught  
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  
Mr and Mrs W had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs W met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN94393325-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy  it seems likely  that Mr and Mrs Ws ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Mr W was not working as he was not entitled  to any employee benefits.  Although  Mrs 
W had generous employee  benefits,  the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to these. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ws employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Although Mr W was self-employed,  and some 
policies made it difficult for self-employed  people to make  a claim, this was not one of 
those policies. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions,  Mr W has told us about a 
condition which he suffered from in 1990. This was around  8 years  before the policy 
was taken out and it appears it was well managed with medication and Mr W hadnt 
needed to take time off work because of it. So I dont this particular condition made 
the policy unsuitable at the time of the sale. There were also no additional restrictions  
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs W be disabled  or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances,  including Mrs Ws employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs W be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and /or Mrs W were  unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs W would  have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
Ref: DRN94393326But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs W. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude        
Mr and Mrs W suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
Ref: DRN94393327properly, Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently,  or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W knew  they would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs W applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs W would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs W would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ws 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs W knew  
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  or for which  
they had seen/arranged to see a doctor  for or received treatment from a doctor  for 
during the 12 months before the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
Ref: DRN94393328The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs W be 
totally unable to do their own job or any similar  job which their ability,  education  or 
training reasonable qualified them to do; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr W says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the condition occurred in 
1990 and Mr W hadnt needed to take any time off work because of it. As mentioned  above  it 
appears to have been well managed with medication. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs W were  unable  
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but Mr W didnt have  another means of repayment  if he was off work or lost his job (other  
than Mrs Ws income). And although Mrs W had generous employee benefits, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to these.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs W be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
Ref: DRN94393329not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mrs Ws sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr and Mrs W were  made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs W would have  taken  out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN943933210Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9439332