K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Santander UK 
Plc.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with Santander in 1988.  At the same time he bought  a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered  his mortgage  repayments  for up to five years at a time if he was too 
ill to work,  and for up to 24 months  at a time if he was made redundant.
Mr S says he didnt need the policy. He says he was told he had to have it to get the 
mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld.  Mr S disagrees,  so his case  
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Santander first said they thought Mr S took the policy in 1990. This was because  it was the 
first record  they had of premiums being paid. But Mr S provided this service with evidence  
that the policy started in 1988.  And this makes  more sense, because its when his mortgage 
started. Its possible that the premiums were  free for a period of time, and thats  why 
Santander doesnt have a record of them. Either way, I dont  think  it makes a difference to 
the outcome of the complaint, and I think its reasonable  to accept that the policy was sold in 
1988.
Mr S says that he was told that he had to buy the PPI to qualify for his mortgage. Santander 
says PPI was never a condition of their mortgages.  Ive considered the fact the sale took 
place over 30 years ago and that its not unreasonable for neither party to be able to provide 
much information from that time, but I havent  seen any evidence to suggest that Santander  
didnt follow  their usual  practices. Santander has provided a sample copy of the application  
form Mr S wouldve  had to complete which states  that the PPI is optional.  So I think its more 
likely than not that Mr S bought the PPI understanding  he had a choice about it. 
Santander say it wouldve  offered  Mr S a personal  recommendation about the policy. This 
means Santander had an obligation  to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for Mr 
S. Looking  at Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale I think  its likely that it was. I say this 
because:
Mr S was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Ref: DRN98049092Mr S says he had exceptionally  good  sick pay from his employer.  I havent  seen any 
evidence of this, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to his sick pay, and 
potentially for much  longer  up to five years at a time;
Mr S says he had some savings, and he could have relied on friends and family to 
help him out if he was unemployed.  But the policy  wouldve avoided him having to 
rely on other people  whose own circumstances couldnt be guaranteed either. And 
his savings couldve been used to cover  other  uninsured  expenses  that Mr S 
wouldve had;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time. It was flexible  because it could be cancelled at any time 
without financial penalty. 
Santander also had to give Mr S enough  information about the policy  so he could make  his 
own mind up about  it. I cant know what information  was given to Mr S at the time, but even if 
it wasnt good enough I dont think Mr S wouldve  acted differently and not bought it if hed 
understood everything. I say this because the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive 
already described.
So I dont  think Mr S lost out as a result of anything  Santander mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint, so it follows  that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9804909