K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss B complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform  (Platform) 
didnt tell them that their mortgage was about to move onto the standard variable  rate 
(SVR). They would  like the extra interest paid refunded.
background
Mr B and Miss B had a mortgage product  with Platform which had a fixed interest rate for 
two years ending in December 2018,  taken out through a broker. They  said that Platform 
hadnt told them that the mortgage was about  to move onto the SVR. Mr B and Miss B were 
then offered a new product by Platform, but went to another lender.
Mr B and Miss B complained to Platform. It said that it wrote  to Mr B and Miss B twice in 
September 2018, and again in December 2018,  telling them that their mortgage was going to 
move onto the SVR in January 2019. Platform said that the letters  were correctly  addressed  
and it wasnt responsible for the delivery  of post.  It also pointed  out that the end of the fixed  
interest rate period  was set out in the mortgage offer accepted  by Mr B and Miss B.
Mr B and Miss B complained to us, and said that they hadnt received either letter from 
Platform and that a letter was only received after Mr B had spoken  to Platform  about  the 
issue in December 2018 (though it was dated before that call). The investigators view was 
that Platform wasnt at fault. She said that the end of the fixed  interest rate period was set 
out in the mortgage offer,  so Mr B and Miss B shouldve known when it ended. The 
investigator also didnt  think Platform was to blame for its letters not reaching them.
Mr B and Miss B disagreed. They said that the outcome wasnt fair and they wanted an 
ombudsmans view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders arent required to offer new products to consumers; theyre  simply required to set 
out clearly the terms of the mortgage product in the offer. Platform did this in the offer 
accepted by Mr B and Miss B.
Its also good industry practice to remind consumers that their fixed interest  rate product is 
coming to an end. Platform sent Mr B and Miss B two letters  about  three  months before the 
product was due to end. Those  letters were  correctly addressed.  Platform  isnt responsible 
for the delivery  of post. 
Platform also sent a third reminder letter  that did reach Mr B and Miss B, which I think was 
generated before Mr B called  as thats what the evidence  available to me shows;  I think it 
triggered his call to Platform  in December 2018  from the notes made by Platform at the time 
and from the timing of the call. I appreciate this letter didnt reach the consumers in time for 
them to avoid going onto the SVR, but that wasnt Platforms fault and Mr B and Miss B 
already knew the end date of the product  from the mortgage offer.
Ref: DRN90289362my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9028936