K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs B took out in 1996.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt  have to check  it was right for her. But it 
did have to give Mrs B information  about  the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading, 
so she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
The policy excluded claims resulting from a medical  condition the customer knew about or 
got treatment for in the 12 months before the start date. Mrs B had such a medical  condition,  
which had only been diagnosed shortly  before  the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs B in the circumstances of this particular sale.  From what  
shes told us, at the time she was suffering from potentially serious complications, and she 
had to take time off work because of her condition.
The condition may have been  well controlled  some time down the line, and may not have 
been such a concern in later years. But at the time of this sale, it was a very recent diagnosis  
that was significantly  affecting Mrs B, so I think it wouldve been on her mind.  Indeed,  given 
how it was affecting  her at the time, I think she wouldve considered  it to be the most likely 
condition to cause  her to be off sick. But under this policy, she wouldnt have been able to 
claim for time off caused by her condition  or for anything that resulted from it.
I cant see that Mrs B was given clear  information  about this exclusion at the sale.  If she had 
been given clear enough information, I think its most likely that she wouldnt have bought  the 
policy. So I think that Mrs B has lost out because of the flaws  in this particular sale.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN94230002So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. FICL should then refund the 
difference between  what  Mrs B owed when she closed her account and what  she would 
have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Mrs B has already received a 
refund of the commission part of this PPI policy, then FICL can take that off the amount it 
owes her, so that it does not refund the same amount twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs B would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9423000