K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the MPPI.  
The mortgage was taken in joint names,  but the policy only covered Mr S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S say that they werent aware  that they had MPPI. BoS has provided  copies  
of the paperwork  that was completed  at the time they took out their mortgage  and MPPI  
policy. I can see that on their mortgage  application the MPPI is presented as optional, 
and Mr and Mrs S have signed  to say they want the policy. A separate MPPI application 
has then been  completed for Mr S to be covered  by the policy.  Mr and Mrs S have also 
signed this application.  So with this in mind, I think BoS made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs S 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI 
cover and they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs S because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium before Mr and Mrs S took out a further advance.  It has 
now agreed to pay back any commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the 
MPPI premium after Mr and Mrs S took out a further advance - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN90130122Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what they have said about 
their friends getting back money when they made  similar complaints. But Im only looking at 
what happened when  Mr and Mrs S were sold MPPI  and each case is looked at on its own 
individual merits. So this point doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9013012