K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in a meeting in 1999 
alongside a mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  think then complaint should  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs B says that she was strongly advised to take out the PPI policy  by Bradford & Bingley 
and that it wasnt  made  clear to her that it was optional.
This PPI sale took place  a long time ago and theres  no record  of what  was discussed at the 
meeting. But Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application which  Mrs B signed.  Theres a 
separate section  in this dealing with PPI. And I can see that theres  a tick in the box provided  
to select illness, injury  and unemployment  cover. The amount of the cover required has also 
been entered in this section, together with Yes/No  answers to some questions about  
Mrs Bs personal circumstances at the time.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer that Bradford  & Bingley later sent Mrs B. Under 
the heading Payment  Protection, its confirmed  that Mrs B has taken out PPI with her 
mortgage with a monthly benefit of £325.  Its also stated that the monthly cost of the policy  
will be £21.12, after an initial free period of cover for the first six months.
So on the basis of all the evidence available to me, I dont think  Ive seen anything to 
suggest that its likely that Mrs B was misled into thinking that she had to take this cover and 
it wasnt optional. I think its more likely that PPI cover was discussed with Mrs B in the 
meeting and she actively decided to take it, knowing she had a choice. But I can understand 
why she might not remember this now. 
Bradford & Bingley  says that this wasnt an advised PPI sale to Mrs B. And from the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think this is likely to have been the case. Bradford & Bingley did 
strongly recommend  that Mrs B take out PPI in her mortgage application document.  But I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this recommendation  took account of her particular 
circumstances at the time. This means it didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable 
for her. But it did still need to ensure that it gave her enough information about  the PPI for 
her to decide if she wanted  it.
Ref: DRN91658992From what  Ive seen, I think its possible that Bradford & Bingley could have given Mrs B 
better information about the PPI policy than it did. But I dont think  better information would 
have changed  her mind  about taking it. I say this because:
Mrs B appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mrs B says she was eligible for generous sick pay and was in secure employment at the 
time of the sale, and didnt need PPI cover.  But the policy would  have paid out in addition  
to any other means she might  have had available to her at the time. And Mrs Bs 
mortgage was a big financial commitment, where her home might have been at risk if 
she couldnt make her loan repayments.  So I still think  she would have valued the extra 
protection the policy gave her.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mrs B. And as it was paid for 
monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Mrs B has lost out by anything that Bradford & Bingley might have done 
wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bradford & Bingley Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9165899