K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Insurance  PLC caused damage to his contents following a claim 
he made under his home insurance  policy for accidental damage.  
Mr B has brought a complaint  about  Zurich and its agents. For ease, I will refer to the action 
and comments of both Zurich and its agents as Zurich,  unless  stated otherwise. 
background
In July 2018, Mr B made a claim for his TV. Zurich  accepted the claim and repairs were  
completed. 
In February 2019  Mr B made a new claim for accidental damage  to the left hand side of his 
TV screen. Zurich agreed to consider the claim but said damage was due to wear and tear 
and not covered under the policy. It said that no physical damage had occurred. 
Mr B received his TV back and said further damage had occurred to the right hand  side of 
the screen. Mr B considered the damage had been caused by Zurichs agents that inspected 
the TV. So Zurich  arranged to inspect the damage, but said it had also occurred due to wear  
and tear. Therefore it didnt agree to cover  the damage under the policy. 
Zurich offered to pay Mr B £100  for the delays  experienced in handling  his claim. 
Mr B disputed this. He said the damage  to the right side of the TV wasnt  present prior to the 
first inspection. He therefore considered that the damage was caused by Zurichs agents  
during its first inspection.  As Mr B remained unhappy he brought a complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator considered the information and didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be 
upheld. He was more persuaded the damage  to the TV was caused by wear and tear, rather  
than accidental damage. 
Mr B disagreed. He provided photos  and videos of the damage to the right hand side of the 
TV. He said the lines were scratches rather than lines that could have been caused by 
internal wear  and tear. 
Our investigator reconsidered his positon based on the further information Mr B provided. He 
accepted that there were two scratches  on the right hand side of the screen and didnt  agree 
this would likely be due to wear and tear. But he didnt agree this should  mean  that Zurich 
was required to replace the TV. This was because Mr Bs TV already had a fault with it and 
replacement parts were  no longer available from the manufacturer.   
Our investigator therefore said he thought  Zurich  should pay Mr B an additional £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. He said Zurich shouldve taken more  care when 
handling Mr Bs TV. 
Mr B remained unhappy  and said Zurich should  replace his TV. Zurich  also disagreed with 
our investigators view. It said the scratches to the screen shouldnt be considered  as part of 
this complaint as it hadnt had the opportunity  to investigate Mr Bs concerns. But our 
investigator disagreed.  So the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN91263742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Zurich has said Mr B should make a new claim for the physical  damage  to its TV so it can 
assess it in line with the policy terms. But given the physical damage is said to have 
occurred during the claim Mr B made, I think its fair to consider as part of his complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Bs TV wasnt working properly when he made a claim in 
February 2019. Zurich  accepted the TV wasnt working anymore, and was beyond 
economical repair. But, it said that because the TV hadnt suffered any physical  damage  to 
cause the problem the fault with the TV wasnt covered by the policy.  
It said that because  the policy defines accidental damage as Sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected physical damage  caused  by an identifiable external means. 
Instead, it said the damage  was as a result  of wear and tear and would progressively 
worsen. The policy says Your  insurer will not pay for: Damage  caused  by wear and tear, 
depreciation or other  damage that happens  gradually over a period of time. Therefore, I 
think Zurich declined the claim fairly. This is because the report said:  
Upon inspection the engineer found a patch  in the bottom left hand  corner  and also a line 
down the right hand side of the screen.  The screen has went faulty, There is no physical  
damage to the screen or the tv itself. The screen  is no longer available from (the 
manufacturer) rendering  this tv beyond repair.
Whats in dispute is whether physical damage was caused to Mr Bs TV during transit or 
whilst it was first inspected by Zurich. Having considered the information available  to me, I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr Bs TV suffered  some  physical  damage  whilst in 
Zurichs possession. 
The report  above  says that there is a fault with the left hand side of the TV and a line down 
the right hand  side. The report also says there is no physical damage present on the TV 
when it was inspected. From  the information  I do have, there doesnt appear to have been 
an inventory completed  that highlighted any pre-existing issues  prior to Zurich taking control 
of the TV. 
Zurich carried out a second  inspection  but maintained that the damage  was a result  of 
gradual wear and tear. But based on the videos Mr B provided, it appears that scratches 
were present  on the right hand  side of his TV when it was returned to him. This wasnt 
something that was noted by Zurich when  it first inspected his TV. And Mr B reported  this 
soon after receiving the TV back. 
As there were no scratches noted  prior to Zurichs  inspection or during it, I think  its likely this 
physical damage  was caused during the period where Zurich  had Mr Bs TV. However, I 
dont think that this should mean that Zurich should replace his TV because  it was deemed 
beyond repair anyway.  So, regardless of whether there were scratches made  to the TV by 
Zurich or not, Mr B would have needed  to replace this item.  Therefore it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to require  Zurich to provide Mr B with a new TV. 
Ref: DRN91263743I do think it should compensate Mr B for the level of distress and inconvenience this has 
caused him. Whilst his TV was beyond repair, Zurich had a duty to take care of Mr Bs TV 
whilst within its possession. So, I can understand how it would have  been  distressing for him 
to receive his TV back, with additional  damage  to it. The scratches on the TV are on the 
screen which I appreciate  would cause him a level of inconvenience and affect his viewing 
somewhat. 
On balance, Im more persuaded than not that Mr Bs TV suffered some physical damage  
whilst in Zurichs  possession. And so I agree with our investigators view that it should 
compensate Mr B £100 to recognise  the level of trouble and inconvenience caused to him. 
I appreciate Mr Bs expectation is that Zurich should  replace his TV. But, as above, because  
his TV was beyond  repair, he would have been required to replace it in any event.  However, 
I think £100 recognises the distress and inconvenience caused  to him for receiving his TV 
back in a more  damaged  condition from Zurich. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay 
Mr B £100  for the level of distress and inconvenience caused  to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B. to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9126374