K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains MBNA  Limited have unfairly defaulted her credit  card account after agreeing  
a repayment plan.
background
In May 2017  Ms D began to have problems  meeting  her monthly  credit  card repayments and 
in the following months  direct debit payments were often returned  unpaid. The monthly  
statements MBNA sent warned her about  the arrears and its records indicate it tried to call 
Ms D to discuss  her situation.  Ms D made  a few intermittent payments but paid nothing  
between February and the end of July 2018.  In March 2018  Ms D told MBNA she was 
experiencing financial difficulty but didnt  respond  to MBNAs further attempts to discuss this. 
In July 2018 she got in touch and offered to pay £500 a month but initially  refused to provide 
details of her income and expenditure. But she did so in October 2018 which enabled MBNA 
to determine that she could  afford to pay £367  per month. 
MBNA have  provided  system notes  including notes of calls with Ms D  which say they told 
her the account  would be defaulted if she missed another contractual repayment  - and a 
minimum payment would still be generated. MBNA also wrote to Ms D in October 2018 
following a call confirming the amount  she could  afford to repay,  that theyd reduced her 
interest rate to 0% and waived all future late payment and over limit fees The letter also 
said £367 was less than the minimum payment needed - so wouldnt be enough to prevent 
them registering a default with the credit  reference agencies. 
Ms D had already  made some repayments of around £500 or so monthly and continued 
doing so. But this wasnt enough to bring her account  up to date and by December  2018  Ms 
Ds account was six months in arrears. MBNA sent her another notice of default. Ms D said 
this was unfair as shed  agreed a payment plan with MBNA - and they were  harassing her by 
contacting her for the outstanding amount. 
By the time MBNA sent Ms D a notice of default  in December 2018, she had six months  of 
arrears and was unable to afford to pay the contractual repayment amount. MBNA  
previously issued two notices of default  but hadnt  actually  defaulted  the account and they 
tried to speak to Ms D about her income and expenditure in July and August 2019. When 
they did discuss what Ms D could afford to pay, they also agreed to remove her late and 
over limit charges - and they reduced her interest. But Ms D still wasnt able to make the 
minimum contractual repayment
MBNA said they accepted Ms Ds payments, but theyd  told her the amount wasnt  enough 
for her account to be put on a formal payment plan - so would be at risk of default. They said 
their letter was to make  her aware of the default  process and wasnt  a request or demand for 
additional payment and didnt amount to harassment
Ms D was unhappy with this  so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend Ms Ds complaint be upheld because she though  MBNA  had acted fairly.
Ms D didnt agree with some of our investigators  findings. She said she agreed  a formal 
payment plan with MBNA, is unhappy  her payments have  been applied to her overall 
balance and MBNA arent following  their own terms and conditions. She also said she was 
disappointed MBNA havent been punished for being unable  to locate call recordings.
Ref: DRN92811272The complaint has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D said she was disappointed MBNA havent been punished for being unable  to locate the 
call recordings  but its not the role of this service to punish or fine financial businesses.  
MBNA must  treat customers who are in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. I 
have to decide whether MBNA  did so in Ms Ds case and I think they have. So Im not 
upholding her complaint.  I know Ms D will be disappointed with my decision.  But Ill explain 
why.
Ms Ds payment problems  stem back to May 2017  and since  then she hasnt been up to date 
with her contractual payments.  MBNA  has warned Ms D of what  might happen if this 
continued, including the account being  defaulted. MBNA sent Ms D notices of default on a 
number of occasions but didnt actually default  her until shed accrued six months of arrears  
in December 2018.
Ms D offered  to repay £500 a month  in July 2018  but this was still less than the contractual  
repayment  which by this point was around  £3,500. MBNA tried to take steps  to make sure 
Ms D could afford to repay that amount  each  month. Its not unusual for a lender to do this to 
properly understand a consumers financial difficulties and how they can support - but Ms D 
didnt engage  with them. Although she was paying  £500 each month  there was no 
guarantee shed  be able to continue to do this - and when Ms D did engage with MBNA  in 
October 2018, an income and expenditure showed  she could only reasonably afford 
payments of £367.
I can appreciate Ms D might  have thought  she had agreed a formal payment plan with 
MBNA during her call in October 2018. But when they wrote  to her they said it wasnt  
enough to meet the minimum repayment  or prevent them  registering  a default. So I think  
they made it clear to Ms D it wasnt a formal  repayment plan  and what would happen if she 
couldnt make her monthly  contractual payments (which  were  far in excess of £397  or £500 
at that point). 
We wouldnt usually consider it inappropriate of a business to default  an account when its 
apparent their relationship with a consumer  had broken down.  Indicators of such   as set 
out by the Information Commissioners Office guidance   might be when the account is 
three to six months in arrears and no formal  repayment  plan has been agreed - and I think 
by December 2018 this is what had happened  between Ms D and MBNA.  Ms D had 
accrued six months  of arrears by this point so MBNA proceeded with defaulting Ms Ds 
account after warning  that this could  happen   and it was fair to report this to the credit 
reference agencies  because the information on the credit file should accurately reflect the 
account conduct.
So I dont  think MBNA have treated Ms D unfairly  by defaulting her account or reporting this 
to the credit  reference  agencies.
Ref: DRN92811273Ms D is unhappy her repayments have been  allocated to her total balance  and not the 
arrears. But her arrears have been  accrued  through  missed  contractual  repayments and isnt 
a separate balance. So I dont MBNA  have  been unfair in how theyve  applied  Ms Ds 
payments. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint  so I wont  being asking 
MBNA Limited to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281127