K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined Mr Ks private health 
insurance claim. 
background
Mr K took out a private  health insurance policy starting 31 December  2018  on a moratorium 
basis. The insurer of the policy  is AXA.  Mr K says he previously had other private health 
insurance, also insured  by AXA, that he cancelled on 31st December 2018 due to a premium  
increase.
While Mr K was abroad he had back pain and saw a doctor on 31 December 2018. He had 
some treatment abroad. When he returned to the UK he had further  treatment in spring  
2019.
AXA declined the claim. It said Mr K had symptoms of his back  pain before the policy started 
so it was a pre-existing  condition which the policy didnt cover.
Mr and Mrs K complained to us. They said:
Mr Ks back pain isnt a pre-existing condition. He didnt know  he had a back problem 
until he saw a doctor on 31 December 2018  even though  he felt some pain about  a 
week before 
he saw the doctor the day his new policy started
AXA insured  his old and new policies.
Mr and Mrs K want AXA to pay the medical  costs he paid in the UK and for AXA to cover any 
treatment for his back condition he may need  in the future.
Our investigator thought AXA had fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and want an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I have to decide whether AXA fairly and reasonably declined 
the claim,  and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear theres no cover for a pre-existing condition which the policy defines as: 
any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment;  or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three years (or five years if 
you joined  this policy on or before 15 November 2005) before the start of your cover.
Ref: DRN93372632The Insurance Product Information Document (a summary of the key facts) is also clear 
theres no cover for pre-existing conditions  Mr K had in the three years before the policy  
started.
Ive listened to the call recording of Mr Ks first call to AXA about the claim. He told it he 
started to experience  symptoms on the 23 December 2018 which  got worse.
The medical information form, completed by Mr Ks GP, says Mr K had been aware 
something was wrong from 26 December  2018. Although thats  a later date than the 
23 December its still before the policy  started  which was on 31 December 2018.  
Although Mr K didnt  know exactly what was wrong with his back until he saw the doctor the 
evidence is that he experienced  symptoms of the back  problem before the policy started. 
AXA could reasonably conclude that his back condition  was a pre-existing condition,  as 
defined by the policy terms, and not covered.
Mr K says that as this policy  and his previous policy where both insured by AXA his claim 
should be covered.  Theres  no evidence of any continuation of cover from his old policy  to 
this new policy. They are two entirely  separate policies. It doesnt matter if AXA was the 
insurer for the previous policy. AXA fairly  declined  the claim under the new policy terms.
Mr K is concerned that his back condition wont be covered in the future. The policy says 
once Mr K has had the policy for two consecutive years he:
may be able to claim for treatment of pre-existing conditions and specified conditions 
as long as you have had a trouble free period of two consecutive years for the pre-
existing condition since your cover started.
The policy defines  what AXA means by trouble free. Mr K can refer to that definition to see 
if he may meet the criteria  if in the future  he wants to make  a claim for the condition.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 April 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9337263