K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly charged her interest  and removed her 
promotional offer when  she exceeding her credit limit.
background
Mrs A says she didnt realise  she had exceeded  her credit limit until a couple of months 
afterwards. She says Sainsburys charged her monthly interest of about  £100 and withdrew  
her 0% promotional offer. Mrs A says that was out of proportion to the amount  that she 
exceeded her credit  limit and says Sainsburys was unsympathetic  when  she called it. She 
says Sainsburys has now reinstated the offer and paid compensation for how she was 
treated and the wrong information  she was given. But she says Sainsburys will not refund  
the interest and that the information about  withdrawing promotional offers is not in the terms 
and conditions and only on the statements which is unclear. Mrs A says she should  have  
been told that she was close to exceeding her credit  limit.
Sainsburys says Mrs A exceeded her credit  limit in January 2019 and so charged  her 
interest in line with the account terms and conditions. It says it correctly removed the 
promotional offer but it accepts it gave Mrs A incorrect information and recorded incorrect  
information on the account statement. It also accepts it didnt deal appropriately with Mrs A 
when she called and has paid a total of £100  compensation and agreed to reinstate the 
promotional offer.
Mrs A brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought  Sainsburys had dealt fairly 
with it. The investigator  thought Mrs A had exceeded her credit limit and in those 
circumstances Sainsburys had acted  in line with the account terms and conditions by 
charging interest and removing the offer. The investigator thought  the compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable.
Mrs A accepts that the account statements say an offer can be removed but doesnt accept 
the terms and conditions say that. She remains unhappy with how shes been dealt with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs A will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that Sainsburys didnt deal with Mrs A as it should  have done 
and also gave her misleading information. But Im satisfied Sainsburys has apologised and 
paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. Ive listened to the calls 
between the parties  and Im satisfied that compensation offer fairly reflects the level of 
Sainsburys mistake and the impact it had on Mrs A. I can also see that its agreed to 
reinstate Mrs As promotional period but Mrs A has decided to close her account in any 
event.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mrs A would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And having done  so Im satisfied those terms and conditions  
make clear  that interest  will be charged  if a credit limit is exceeded. I find that Mrs A did 
exceed her credit limit by a relatively small amount and so I dont think Sainsburys made a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by charging  interest.  I appreciate Mrs A says she didnt notice  what  
had happened  and that Sainsburys should have warned her.
Ref: DRN91117662But Im satisfied Sainsburys  did make  clear in the terms and conditions  what would happen 
in these circumstances and I think it was up to Mrs A to monitor her spending. I cant  
reasonably find Sainsburys responsible  for Mrs A not noticing  the information on her credit 
card statement about the interest.
I appreciate Mrs As point  that the terms and conditions do not appear  to make clear  that a 
promotional offer may be withdrawn in these circumstances. But Im satisfied the account 
statements do deal with this issue. And having  looked at the information Mrs A would have 
been given by Sainsburys before the account  was opened, Im satisfied  Sainsburys  made  
clear that if a credit limit was exceeded,  then a promotional offer would be withdrawn. In any 
event I can see that Sainsburys agreed to reinstate  the offer and Mrs A has closed her 
account.
Overall as Im satisfied Sainsburys was entitled to charge interest  then I cant  fairly ask it to 
do anything further  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9111766