K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that Virgin Money plc gave her misleading information which  led to her not 
claiming the bonus under a Help to Buy ISA.
background
Miss E held a Help to Buy ISA with Virgin. During  the course of purchasing a property Miss E 
received a closure letter from Virgin which  led her to believe that she had plenty of time to 
apply for the bonus.
Miss E completed her property purchase  on 15 February 2019  and applied for the bonus 
through her solicitor  on 18 February 2019. The claim was rejected on the grounds  that it 
should have been claimed before the property purchase was completed.
Miss E says the closure letter says that it is a requirement that the bonus must be claimed 
within 12 months of the closure of the account. She feels the letter  should  have also made it 
clear that the bonus should  be claimed  prior to the completion of the property purchase.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  He said financial businesses  have no 
involvement in the claiming of the bonus  and would  not be expected to give advice on this 
aspect.
Miss E didnt agree. She said the Virgin closure letter gave her incomplete information which 
was misleading  and caused her financial loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the information which was provided to Miss E by Virgin  from the date 
when she opened  the ISA. The Key Product Information Sheet mentions the eligibility criteria 
and directs the customer to check the criteria on the government website. A link to the 
government website is provided for this purpose.
I can see that Virgin sent Miss E an email every  November reminding her of the need to 
meet the eligibility criteria  and again  provided  a link to the government  website.
I wouldve  expected  Miss E to familiarise herself  with the eligibility criteria. If she had looked 
on the government  website she would have been able to read the following information:
When you are close to buying  your first home, you will need  to instruct your solicitor or 
conveyancer to apply  for the government  bonus.  Once they receive the government  bonus it 
will be added to the money you are putting  towards  your first home. The bonus must be 
included with the funds consolidated at the completion of the property transaction.
The account  closure letter sent to Miss E by Virgin says that the bonus must be claimed by 
her solicitor  within 12 months of the closure of the account.
On that basis, I think sufficient information  was available to Miss E for her to understand that 
the bonus would need to be claimed by a solicitor and that she had 12 months to make  the 
Ref: DRN91667592claim. Its clear from the information on the government website that the claim has to be 
made before completion of the property purchase.
Miss E has suggested the letter from Virgin was misleading and that it should  have  
contained more  information. I understand why shes said that, but its not Virgins 
responsibility as the ISA provider to give advice on eligibility. I think  that Virgin  has done 
enough by signposting Miss E to the eligibility  criteria on several occasions. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Virgin specifically  misled Miss E here, for instance, by telling  
her she could complete  on her property purchase and then make a claim.
I accept that Virgin could have provided more detailed information in the closure letter but I 
dont think the letter was misleading.  Miss E must accept some  responsibility here because 
the information on the government website is clear. Moreover, and whilst  its not for me to 
determine whether  Miss Es solicitors  have made  an error, I wouldve expected her solicitors 
to be familiar with the eligibility rules  and in particular of the requirement  to claim the bonus 
prior to completion. Miss E has a reasonable expectation that her solicitors  would advise her 
on the requirements to make a successful bonus  claim. Its up to Miss E whether she 
contacts the Legal Ombudsman in that regard.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9166759