K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr C was given four loans  by Satsuma, as follows:
Loan No Amount Date Term Monthly Repaid
1 £300 15.11.17 3m £148 1.3.18
2 £300 3.1.18 5m £106 1.6.18
3 £880 3.5.18 11m £159 Outstanding
4 £330 6.6.18 3m £162 Outstanding
Mr C has accepted that loans one and two were not provided to him irresponsibly. This 
complaint relates,  therefore, to loans three and four, which Mr C believes werent  suitable  for 
him because:
before  loan three there had been  a default registered by another  payday lender;
he was, at the time, borrowing  from other  short-term lenders;
his credit report showed numerous other closed payday loans, together with credit  card 
accounts that were  in arrears or had exceeded their limits;
he also had a gambling habit.
Mr C feels that Satsuma  shouldve been  aware of this through  carrying out proper  checks 
before lending to him.
Satsuma believes it did undertake sufficient and adequate checks  and was satisfied that its 
loans were affordable  to Mr C before it lent them.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Satsuma had been wrong to provide the loans to Mr C. 
Because Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicators findings the complaint has been passed  to 
me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ref: DRN99096442Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
At the time of the loan applications Mr C told Satsuma that his monthly income  was £3,550  
and his total expenditure was £2,118. Before agreeing  to provide loans three and four 
Satsuma carried out checks  of Mr Cs credit file and has told us that, in the light of its 
findings, it applied  additional cost buffers  to the figures given to it by Mr C. It also asked Mr C 
to verify his earnings,  which  he did by supplying his wage slips.
I havent seen  the results  of Satsumas credit checks  but its files indicate  that, whilst  there  
was one default evident and a couple  of payments  in arrears, there was nothing to concern 
it. Its searches at the time of each loan didnt show any new payday loans within the 
preceding three months.
I should point  out that, often, the information  a consumer might see when  they request a 
copy of their credit file might  be quite different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only 
see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised, or the 
data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences  between  the information  
provided to Satsuma from its credit checks and the information that can be seen in the credit 
reports provided to us by Mr C.
Ref: DRN99096443In response to our adjudicators recommendations, Mr C reiterated  to us the reasons why he 
considered Satsuma shouldve been aware that he was experiencing financial  difficulties  as 
a consequence  of borrowing to fund a gambling problem. These included:
the amount  of loan three  was much higher than his first two loans;
a default had been registered on his credit file by another short term lender;
loan four was provided very soon after loan three was given, when  loan three remained 
outstanding;
he believes his gambling problem wouldve been  evident  to Satsuma if itd checked  his 
bank statements.
From the information that Mr C has provided to us I can see that his finances were under 
pressure at the time of these loans. But that wasnt revealed by the credit  check  information  
that was obtained by Satsuma. And it wasnt something that Mr C told Satsuma at the time 
either.
I dont think there was any reason for Satsuma to question the information Mr C had 
provided. The repayments that he had agreed  to make on his loans were relatively modest 
compared to the income that hed evidenced  to Satsuma. And, based  upon the disposable  
income hed declared  (even after Satsuma had added to the expenses),  these repayments 
appeared to be comfortably affordable.  This includes  loan three which,  whilst for a higher 
value than the prior loans, remained relatively  modest compared to Mr Cs income.
I can see that loan two still had a balance  owing when loan three was given  but the 
outstanding repayment was only £106  and, even coupled with the repayments required to 
loan three  at £159, I think that this wouldve still appeared affordable  against  the declared  
disposable income.
I acknowledge Mr Cs observation about  loan four being given just one month after loan 
three but, here again, I think that the combined  monthly repayments  of £321 wouldve 
appeared to Satsuma to be affordable. 
So, in all of these circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to 
ask Mr C for additional information that wouldve been necessary to show the lending was 
unsustainable. I wouldnt have expected  Satsuma  to go so far as to independently verify the 
financial information that Mr C gave by, for example, asking to see his bank statements. This 
means that even though Mr Cs situation was worse than he disclosed to Satsuma, I dont 
think this wouldve been revealed by what I consider to be proportionate checks.
Im sorry  that my decision  is likely to disappoint  Mr C but I dont think  Satsuma was wrong  to 
give these loans to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and so wont be asking Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma)  to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Richard France
Ref: DRN99096444Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909644