K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited  (Markerstudy)  refused to pay 
out on a claim he made on his car insurance policy and accused him of fraud. Mr B wants  
Markerstudy to pay his claim. Hes also said that Markerstudy didnt consider the clarification 
he provided in response to their enquiries  when  he made a formal complaint.
background
Mr B is a self-employed taxi driver. In April 2018, in the early  hours  of a Sunday  morning, he 
was driving back home after taking a fare. He says he heard a loud bang  and realised hed 
driven over something. He pulled over to investigate and says he seems to have driven over 
what looked like a short fence post.  He says when he returned to his vehicle, he could smell 
diesel and saw smoke coming from the cars engine. He says he switched off the engine and 
removed the key but didnt open the bonnet.  He called  the fire brigade.  He said that a 
woman in a car stopped  to make sure he was alright. Then the police stopped and called the 
fire brigade.  By this time there were  flames under the bonnet and in the car. Mr B says the 
three of them stood there for at least 30 minutes  waiting for the fire brigade  to arrive. The car 
windows exploded  and the police  officer  radioed to ask where  the fire brigade  was. The fire 
brigade arrived and the fire was put out. Mr B said that a fire officer suggested  that a nail on 
the post might have  cut the fuel line. 
Mr B claimed under his policy and has explained  that he managed to cover his jobs by hiring 
another taxi from an acquaintance in the business.
The car was moved  to a garage. Mr B said hed bought it new in 2014. He said it was in very 
good condition  before the fire and wasnt in need  of repair.  Hes said hes not been able to 
buy another car since. Mr B told us that Markerstudy also asked for details of his cars 
finance arrangements. And hes said he had a disagreement with the car dealership over the 
terms of the finance  agreement.
Markerstudy carried out interviews  with Mr B in April and May 2018.  They  also 
commissioned a firm of investigators  who produced  an initial report on 15 May 2018. This 
stated that Mr B did perform well at interview,  and we are not aware  of any evidence  to 
substantiate our concerns, we are not yet entirely  convinced that this incident occurred in the 
matter described.  But they shared concerns that fire might have been planned and 
deliberately set. They went on to strongly suggest that Markerstudy apply to the fire 
brigade for a copy of any fire report, and also for any report from the police.
Markerstudy then commissioned a forensic  investigative engineer who completed a report in 
June 2018. This detailed  report  included  the following  findings:  the exterior and interior of the 
car were damaged; the engine  bay was very lightly fire damaged; there was no evidence of 
fire damage  or impact damage on the underside of the car; the fragments of the broken 
windows were extensively smoke-damaged; fragments of the front passenger window were 
melted but with no evidence  of smoke damage  and this was an indication that this window 
had broken prior to the fire taking hold;  the nearside paintwork had suffered more  than 
offside; under the bonnet  the fire damage  was generally undamaged towards front 
indicating the fire had not started  under the bonnet; there  was a clear indication  that the 
fire had started  in the front nearside  passenger  compartment; it had started at seat height 
and gone upwards; the fire had not [started] under the bonnet as reported; there was no 
evidence of the fire having started  within the engine compartment as suggested by the 
owner; there were no fuel lines around  the nearside  front seat; there  was no sign of damage 
Ref: DRN99269052to the exhaust;  wiring  near the passenger wasnt  melted completely indicating the source of 
fire was above the wiring.
The engineer stated it would  appear that this fire was started  deliberately by igniting the 
nearside front seat; this was possibly using an accelerant although  no trace could be found 
as the vehicle had been stored in the open air and exposed to the elements for a period  of 
time; And that the spread of the fire and the heat generated would tend to suggest the 
use of an accelerant but there was no evidence of what that may have been remaining. 
There was no evidence  of the fire having started due to either an electrical malfunction or of 
a flammable substance striking  a heat source such as the exhaust.
He concluded  that: It is, therefore, my opinion that this fire had been  started  deliberately and 
this opinion is supported by the nearside  window front window having been  broken prior to 
the fire taking hold.
The report  also mentioned twelve Experian checks thought to have been  made  by parties  
considering purchasing the car. The engineer  suggested Mr B had been trying to sell his car.
Markerstudy declined  to meet Mr Bs claim. They said the reported circumstances didnt 
appear to match the damage and they said the fire [had] been started deliberately. They 
cited what the expert had said were  anomalies  in Mr Bs account. These included:
that he reported driving over a wooden post with nails in it, and that this had ignited a 
fire, whereas  fire damage appeared  to be only inside the car and to have begun 
there;
there was evidence that the front passenger window had been broken prior to 
incident  and that there was nothing  in Mr Bs account to explain this;
they raised his dispute over finance  payments  with those whod sold him the car; and
they said: each fact is drawing  the same  conclusion  ie. the fire was started inside 
the vehicle and likely with use of an accelerant.
In August  2018,  Markerstudy wrote  to Mr B asking for his account  of what  had happened  
and seeking clarification on what they called  evidential discrepancies arising from their 
engineers inspection. They asked:
how did he account for the window in the front passenger door apparently  being 
broken prior to the fire given that its fragments had no evidence  of smoke  damage?
as the engines light damage  indicated  the fire hadnt started there,  why did he say it 
had?
how did he account for no evidence of impact  or damage on the underside of the car 
when he said hed run over a fence  post?
how did he account for findings  indicating  the fire had started inside the vehicle?
how did he account for findings  indicating  the fire had started above floor level?
how did he account for findings  indicating  the fire started  in the passenger seat well?
they also said the nature of the damage to wiring  indicated the fire hadnt started 
there; and
findings indicated  that, given the absence of nearby fuel lines,  an accelerant  had 
been used.
Ref: DRN99269053Mr B replied,  providing explanations and comments. In response  to the engineers  
accelerant point, he said thered been  a deodorant spray in the glove compartment. He 
said being a taxi driver and having other people in the vehicle meant this was normal. 
In September  2018, Markerstudy confirmed  they were maintaining  their decision to decline 
Mr Bs claim. They said that Mr B hadnt adequately explained the discrepancies  or rebutted 
the findings of the engineer. They  also said his account of the fire in his car was false.  They 
said they believed  his intention was to get a financial settlement he wasnt  entitled  to. And 
they told him hed committed a criminal  offence  under the Fraud Act 2006. 
Markerstudy also referred Mr B to section 16 of the General Conditions of his policy  booklet  
which allowed them  to decline his claim and cancel  his policy for fraud.  They told him his 
rights were  all forfeited. And that theyd  retain  the premiums hed paid and seek  to recover 
their handling  costs of £2,195 from him within 14 days. They said if he didnt reimburse 
them, theyd commence legal proceedings and asked Mr B to return  his certificate of 
insurance to them or the insurance  broker. They said his car was beyond repair and that 
they were legally unable to return it. They said they might also pass his file to the authorities  
for further  investigation.  They also said theyd  cancel his policy within seven  days. However, 
Mr B has told us that, instead of cancelling his policy that September, Markerstudy allowed 
him to transfer another vehicle onto the policy for the remainder of the term.
Mr B complained to Markerstudy in January 2018. He said his claim wasnt  fraudulent and 
that hed answered  the questions as best he could, and fully and truthfully.  He repeated  that 
body sprays,  deodorant and aftershave  were kept in the glove compartment, possibly 
exploding and damaging  the inside of the car. He said the fire brigade had been delayed  and 
that the police had radioed asking where the fire brigade was. Markerstudy  sent their final 
response letter, repeating their position. They said nothing had changed. So, Mr B 
complained to us.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint on the basis  that Markerstudy hadnt followed 
through on their letter telling  him they were cancelling his policy  because  of his act of fraud. 
He recommended that the claim was re-considered and that Markerstudy should wave  any 
fees theyd incurred.
Markerstudy didnt agree.  They  accept they should have cancelled the policy,  but dont think 
the fact they didnt affects their right to reject Mr Bs claim. And they asked for the complaint 
to be referred to an Ombudsman  for a final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Not cancelling  Mr Bs policy
When Markerstudy told Mr B that he'd committed fraud so they wouldnt meet  his claim, they 
said theyd cancel the policy within seven days.  But they didnt. Mr B has shown us that 
Markerstudy allowed  him to continue  to be insured instead. And they placed  a different 
vehicle on his existing  policy. This was between  5 September 2018 until the original  policy 
expiry date of 28 December 2018 .
Markerstudy said that although  Mr Bs claim was repudiated on 20 September, the change of 
vehicle had been carried out on 5 September  so before  the repudiation. They said this was 
Ref: DRN99269054because the complaint was still ongoing.  Firstly, through  Markerstudys own complaints 
procedure and then through  the Financial  Ombudsman  Service. Markerstudy told us they 
believed they had sufficient grounds to repudiate the claim. And they said they had enough  
evidence on the balance of probabilities that Mr B had given false  testimony. They  said the 
fact the policy  remained  active didnt mean  they didnt believe they had enough grounds. 
Markerstudy has said it didnt matter that they hadnt  cancelled Mr Bs policy.  They said 
theyd asked the brokers to cancel the policy but they hadnt. They told us the actual 
cancellation had just been overlooked. They even said the broker had contacted them  in 
November/December 2018 to chase the cancellation but theyd  made no formal request to 
cancel it prior to the eventual lapse of the policy.
But even if the change of vehicle had occurred before the repudiation, and even if cancelling  
was initially overlooked, I think its strange that Markerstudy didnt  cancel the policy after 
their letter of 20 September. Allowing Mr B to remain  on cover  was inconsistent with telling 
him his policy  was voided due to false testimony. And inconsistent with accusing him of fraud 
and telling him the policy would be cancelled within seven  days.  
That said,  I dont think this in itself meant  Markerstudy was obliged  to meet Mr Bs claim.  Its 
really just shows poor administration. So, Ive now gone on to examine the evidence and 
consider whether allowing  Markerstudys rejection of Mr Bs claim for fraud should stand.
Absence of fire brigade and police incident  reports
Even though  the advice of the firm of investigators  to obtain both fire brigade and police 
reports was strongly recommended as the first course of action, Markerstudy  didnt do so. 
And on 7 August 2018, Markerstudys  own file note reads: it would have been beneficial 
to obtain police / fire reports but its too late now.
Markerstudy have told us they cant give a clear reason why this recommendation hadnt 
been followed. They said that the case handler had been in training and was now no longer 
with the company. They said their note too late was slightly misleading. Because  the 
evidence theyd obtained from the engineer was so much  stronger and more  detailed than 
any fire report or police  report, they decided  these werent necessary. On 25 October, they 
went on to say that: If we are to question  the need  for a fire report to hinge  [in] any way on 
the decision made in this case then we are also by default questioning  the findings  of the 
Forensic Examination expert to which we have no reason  to question.
When questioned  further, Markerstudy also told us: I accept these enquiries should  have  
been completed, but we are confident  would  have little bearing on the outcome  of the case.  
The factual evidence we have presented in this case is clear and is more  than sufficient in 
evidencing that above and beyond our civil burden  (on the balance of probability)  that the 
client has not been truthful  as to the true circumstances  in this case. 
And Markerstudy are arguing that they didnt need  to see the fire or police  reports because 
they had no reason to question the findings of the engineer theyd instructed. But I think 
theyve got this the wrong. These reports are independent and might provide useful, 
objective information. So I think they ought  to have got hold of them  in the first place, 
because they might support Mr B's version of events. So, I dont think Markerstudy shouldve 
dismissed their evidential value. And I dont think saying that it might have forced them to 
reconsider the findings of their own engineer is reasonable either. Their engineers report 
Ref: DRN99269055simply isnt able to provide the full picture.  So, in the absence  of the fire or police reports, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable for Markerstudy  to just rely on their engineers report.
The engineers report
Markerstudy wrote to Mr B asking him for his account of what had happened and to clarify  
various points. But they didnt  accept  his explanations. And they never  gave a clear reason 
as to why Mr Bs explanations of the broken  window  and accelerant werent acceptable. And 
they didnt even show that theyd  put these explanations  back  to the engineer for comment. 
They just kept referring to the engineers report as being enough  for them  to make a 
decision, without  really explaining any further.  So, I dont think  Markerstudy considered Mr 
Bs explanations or even tried to rebut  these.  Ive dealt with these in greater  detail below.
fire under the bonnet
The engineers report stated that because  the engine bay was only lightly damaged,  the fire 
hadnt started there. And the damage  must have occurred from the interior of the car. The 
report stated at least three times that Mr B had said the fire had started under the cars  
bonnet in the engine.  For example:  there was no evidence of the fire having  started  within 
the engine compartment  as suggested  by the owner. And; the fire had not started 
underneath the bonnet  as reported.
But Mr B never reported that the fire had started  under the bonnet. What he said was: I 
could smell diesel. I went to lift the bonnet by releasing the bonnet catch. I had to walk round 
to the passenger side where the bonnet  catch is. I released the catch, the bonnet front lifted  
up to the first notch.  I then saw what I thought was steam in the headlights  coming from the 
engine space. I've walked  round to the front of the car to lift the bonnet.  I realised it was not 
steam but smoke coming from the engine space. I switched the engine off, removed the car 
key. So, he didnt  say the fire had started underneath the bonnet, only that hed seen smoke 
coming out initially, and then a glow, which I think is different. And I dont think its fair for the 
engineer to put words into Mr Bs mouth and then partly base his conclusions  on refuting 
something Mr B didnt say.
Mr B also said that as the cars headlights  were flashing and the engine turning over, the fire 
might have been caused by some sort of electrical  fault. But he never expressed any strong 
view of his own as to the cause  of the fire.
Mr B also said that the engineer who completed  the report was trained in arson  damage,  so 
used words like 'accelerant',  which  was weighted, rather than 'flammable'. And the engineer  
hadnt been given the chance to address Mr Bs information that he kept a deodorant spray  
in the glove compartment which, on exploding, would ignite the interior  and mainly the seat 
on the passenger  side. So, I dont think it was reasonable for the engineer  to draw his 
conclusion in the absence of all this information. And I dont think its fair of Markerstudy  to 
have relied on his report without putting Mr Bs side of the story to the engineer.
Ref: DRN99269056broken glass of passenger window
Markerstudy asked Mr B to provide an explanation for the breaking  of the front passenger 
window, apparently prior to the fire. Mr B said that in his rush to turn off the engine he might 
have lowered the electric  window accidentally. So, it was possible the window was already 
down when the fire broke out. And the glass had fallen within  the door frame so was 
contained within the door before the fire really took hold. And it had therefore  been protected 
from the smoke. Makerstudy said that it was possible Mr B could have  accidently  pressed an 
electric window buttons "in a panic" but this wasnt an explanation just offering a possibility.
Mr B also suggested that this was the first window to break  which seems very likely  given 
the established location of the fire. So, I think it would be less likely to have been  covered in 
smoke than the other ones which were subjected to the fire for at least  30 minutes.
Markerstudy has also claimed that the evidence clearly stated the door window glass was 
not damaged  by either smoke  or fire but suggestive of being smashed inwards from the 
outside. And this was contrary to Mr Bs account.  But the engineers report  said this window 
glass had been  partially melted. So, I dont think its correct for Markerstudy  to claim the 
window glass hadnt been damaged from the fire when it clearly  had. Or to rely on this when 
dismissing Mr Bs account.
And, again, Ive seen  no evidence to show that Mr Bs comment  was put back to the 
engineer to confirm  whether this provided an adequate explanation. Markerstudy simply said 
that the explanation  was not adequate and didn't go into any further detail.
And its not clear to me why Markerstudy  think the window  being broken adds any weight to 
the belief that Mr B had set fire to his own car in the first place. Especially, as he still had the 
car keys. The investigator did put this to Markerstudy, on 21 October 2019, but they said 
they couldnt comment on Mr Bs motives.
And if Mr B had set fire to the passenger seat and was still in possession of the keys and 
had himself called the fire brigade,  why would the window have been broken from the 
outside? Markerstudy said this question couldnt  be answered but there wasnt any need to. 
Markerstudy said these factors were not relevant.  
So, the engineer has identified an anomaly and tried to blame Mr B for it but without really  
explaining why it was his fault,  or how its relevant to his claim. So, again, I dont think the 
engineer has been  fair or reasonable  in the way he has drawn this conclusion.  And I dont 
think its fair of Markerstudy to have automatically concluded it meant Mr B was guilty  either.
accelerant
Markerstudy asked Mr B to provide explanations for the accelerant the engineer  had 
suggested was present  in the fire. Mr B responded by explaining  that any accelerant was a 
body spray or aftershave  kept in the glove compartment.  Then  Markerstudy said in its letter  
of 21 October that the the presence of an accelerant or not is somewhat peripheral. They 
repeated that the fire or combustion of the fire which started inside the vehicle itself [was] 
contrary to Mr Bs account.
But I dont think that Markerstudy dismissing Mr Bs explanation in this way was fair. 
Particularly when theyd asked him to explain in the first place. And, again,  I dont think  Mr B 
Ref: DRN99269057ever gave a firm opinion  on the source  or location of the fire. He only described what  he says 
he saw.
Again, theres  no evidence to show that Mr Bs account was then put back to the engineer to 
consider whether Mr Bs body spray  or aftershave provided an adequate explanation for the 
nature and location of the fire. Markerstudy simply described his explanations as not 
adequate and didn't go into any further detail.
I also note that Markerstudys engineer acknowledged that no trace  of an accelerant  had 
actually been  found. Only that the surrounding circumstances would tend to suggest one 
had been used. Its also possible that the actual origin of the fire may have been lost in the 
fire, as the engineer seemed to accept.  When challenged, Markerstudy then said the 
engineers views are what  [they]  are and we did not see sufficient grounds to challenge their 
findings. So, it seems to me that Markerstudys position is largely theoretical and Mr B had 
provided an explanation for the accelerant, as requested. But I think that for them  to give it 
no apparent consideration at all was unfair.
Markerstudy referred us to Mr Bs policy booklet.  Under General  Conditions Section 16, it 
states: If you make  any claim or proposal  or declaration that is in any way false  or 
fraudulent or has any fraudulent means, devices or invalid documentation used by you or 
anyone acting on your behalf to obtain benefit  or protection under this insurance,  the policy 
will become  invalidated.  You will not be able to make a claim and all rights  under the policy  
will be forfeited.  We will retain all premiums paid and will seek  to recover all costs  and 
disbursements from you.
So, Markerstudy have  said they are entitled to cancel any policy following fraud.  But I dont 
think they have  sufficient evidence to show that fraud has actually taken place. Because 
what they said was that Mr Bs responses were:  deemed  insufficient and simply did not 
address the issues  found within his statement of the alleged events. They  said that the 
claim was assessed on the balance of probabilities,  and that Mr Bs account couldnt be 
evidenced, and that the engineering evidence  suggested that events didnt take place as he 
said. 
But, as Ive described above, because  Markerstudy hadnt properly considered all the 
evidence - both Mr Bs explanations which they asked for and the fire and police reports  
which they didnt  - I dont  think  their approach  was reasonable or adequate for an insurance 
fraud investigation. An allegation of fraud  is very serious and  although the burden of proof 
needed to demonstrate an insurer is entitled to reject a claim for fraud is the balance of 
probabilities, it is well established that they have to have compelling evidence  following a 
detailed and thorough investigation.  And it is for Markerstudy to prove  Mr Bs claim is 
fraudulent, not for Mr B to prove it is genuine, beyond  establishing  his car was damaged as a 
result of an insured  event,  ie. fire.
Summary
As Ive already  mentioned  its for a policyholder to show that the event being claimed for 
actually happened. Then if the insurer doesnt  think it should pay the claim, its for the insurer 
to demonstrate it can rely on a policy term to defeat  it. And the insurer can rely on a fraud 
condition and is entitled to refuse an entire  claim, even if some parts of the claim were 
genuine, if it can prove fraud. 
Ref: DRN99269058In this case, I think Mr B showed that his car was damaged by fire. But then Markerstudy told 
him that he'd committed fraud and that he was trying to get something to which  he wasnt  
entitled. And for these reasons, they said they wouldnt meet his claim.
Markerstudy said that all the evidence in their report proved, to the required threshold of the 
balance of probabilities, that not only did the fire in Mr Bs car originate inside it, but was 
likely started  deliberately. And they said that the evidence in their possession was so strong 
that they didnt  need  the fire or police reports.  They said Mr Bs explanations were  not 
adequate. They also said Mr B couldnt  provide any evidence  as to why the fire had started.  
And they said they were satisfied Mr B had deliberately omitted factors in his account to 
withhold the truth.
They went  on to say that although they couldve passed Mr Bs comments back  to the 
engineer, they must consider [his] response in line with all evidential  concerns and their 
responses. They also said: there  is little to no counter evidence. But this completely 
ignores the contents of the fire or police reports, which they hadnt  seen. And which I think  
theyve discounted  rather casually. And Markerstudys  original letter back to Mr B was not 
specific and addressed the points he made  only superficially. It stated: it is clear that the 
testimony that you have  provided to us in relation  to the fire of your vehicle is false. 
And Markerstudy didnt  try to rebut any of Mr Bs points. And theres a difference between 
gaps in an explanation and a clearly false testimony. What Mr B believed to be the origin of 
the fire (running over the fence post or damaged fuel lines) may not have been the cause. 
But he isn't an expert  and he maintains  he was only reporting what he assumed to be the 
case. And in the absence of the fire report, its possible the fire brigade did suggest that the 
fence post or fuel lines were the cause, which Mr B simply repeated. 
In the absence of any reports from the fire brigade and police it isnt possible to consider 
their perspective. And just because there  were points that Mr B wasnt able to explain  to 
Markerstudys satisfaction doesnt mean  he was lying. Yet, that is the approach Markerstudy 
has taken. And I really dont think Markerstudy  considered Mr Bs account seriously, either in 
relation to details  or in general before they decided to refuse  his claim.
The engineers report isnt the full story  either. There are gaps there,  as the engineer  himself  
accepts. And then theres the fact that he didnt seem to have an opportunity to consider  Mr 
Bs explanations,  or the fire and police  reports. I think Markerstudy should have taken all 
these things together when coming to a decision, and not just have relied  on one source.
So, under all the circumstances, I dont think Markerstudy  have done  enough  to show  it was 
entitled to repudiate Mr B's claim for fraud. And while  they concluded that Mr B's 
explanations of the event  were inadequate, I dont think that Markerstudy's own justifications 
for not obtaining  key information,  or voiding the policy, were adequate either.
And when   in my opinion - there was an absence of any strong and conclusive evidence to 
show that Mr B lied or deliberately misled  the investigation, I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for Markerstudy to be required to get the reports  from both the 
fire brigade  and the police. And then they should  properly reconsider Mr Bs claim again  in 
the light of these and in the light of the explanations  Mr B has already provided. And they 
should do so by putting all this additional information  back to an expert  engineer for his 
opinion.
Ref: DRN99269059After theyve reconsidered Mr Bs claim, if Markerstudy decide to settle in accordance with 
the claims settlement  terms in the policy, they should also cover any losses flowing from 
their rejection of his claim,  such as the cost he incurred in hiring another vehicle to maintain 
his business or any loss of profits as result of not being able to carry it out.
the response to my provisional  decision
Markerstudy told us they had nothing further  to add. Mr B replied, referring us to some of the 
pictures on file again, and raising  a number  of points that I had already considered.  Now the 
case has been passed back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
In view of the response to my provisional  decision,  Ive no reason to depart from the findings 
Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to uphold  Mr Bs complaint and make Markerstudy 
get the reports from both the fire brigade and the police.  And then they should properly 
reconsider Mr Bs claim again in the light of these and in the light of the explanations Mr B 
has already provided.  And they should  do so by putting all this additional  information  back to 
an expert engineer  for his opinion.
If Markerstudy settle Mr Bs claim they should also cover any losses  flowing from their 
rejection of it, such as the cost he incurred in hiring another  vehicle to maintain his business 
or any loss of profits as result of not being able to carry  it out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9926905