K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined her pet insurance claim. My 
references to UKI include its agents.
background
From 2007  Mrs R insured  her dog under an advanced policy with UKI. In 2016 she changed  
to an essential policy with UKI.
In 2018 Mrs R claimed for her dogs treatment  for otitis externa (a chronic inflammation of 
the external ear canal)  in both ears. Swabs  showed  a diagnosis of pseudomonas 
aemginosa, which is a bacterial infection.
UKI declined  the claim. Mrs Rs dog had a history  of skin allergies and ear infection.  UKI said 
the bacteria (present at the 2018 ear infection) and the yeast (present at the previous ear 
infection) werent  the primary cause of the dogs ear infections. The primary  cause of the ear 
infections were his skin allergies which  hes had before the 2016 policy started. So UKI said 
Mrs Rs dog had a reoccurring and/or pre-existing  condition excluded  by the policy.
Mrs R complained to us. She said her dogs 2018  ear infection wasnt  a reoccurring and/or 
pre-existing condition. She wants UKI to pay her claim. Her vet sent us evidence.
Our investigator thought UKI hadnt  acted fairly in declining the claim. She said there wasnt 
enough evidence  that the dogs skin allergies were  the cause of the ear infection.
UKI disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It sent an independent vets opinion  
which says the ear infection and skin allergies were  linked.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
I need to decide whether UKI fairly  and reasonably  declined the claim, and I think  it did
The policy says that UKI wont cover:
Any claim for a recurring condition thats  in any way connected to or as a result of a 
pre-existing condition.
The policy defines  recurring condition as:
A condition  that may come back or that the pet is prone to, no matter how many 
times the condition comes  back or how many  areas  of the body are affected.
The policy defines  pre-existing condition as:
Any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury  or illness, that happen or exist in any 
form before  the pet was covered by this insurance.
Ref: DRN97373362Its clear from Mrs Rs dogs vet records that he has a long history of skin allergies and some 
ear infection  before the 2016  policy started. I make my decision on the basis of whats  
probably happened. So if I decide  the 2018  ear infection was more likely than not related to 
his skin allergies  the claim will be excluded by the policy terms.
Theres a lot of medical evidence  in this case. UKIs  vet nurses  have detailed  from the dogs  
medical history and specialist research  why it thinks the dogs ear infection and skin allergies 
are linked. In brief,  it says research shows there are a number of potential primary causes 
for infections of the external ear canal but an infection due to pseudomonas is always a 
secondary factor, with 70% having skin allergy as the primary cause.
UKI says given Mrs Rs dogs history of skin allergies, the absence of any other cause and 
that he was again on medication  for skin allergies for another  incident soon after the ear 
infection theres probably a link between his ear infection and his allergies.
The vet who saw Mrs Rs dog ear infection in 2018  said:
On the dates you mentioned I did not have  specific  concerns regarding (the dogs) 
skin/allergies and provided no systemic treatment for canine atopic dermatitis. Otitis 
externa is a complex disease with a number of primary causes, including atopy, and 
a multitude of secondary factors. It is important to understand many dogs with 
allergies do not suffer  from otitis externa and many dogs without allergies do. To 
make the assumption  that (the dogs)  purulent  ear infections were allergic in nature 
with no actual clinical evidence to support this is both presumptuous and not the role 
of a veterinary  nurse.
But Mrs Rs vet hasnt specifically said her dogs ear infection  wasnt  related to the dogs skin 
allergies. And while not all dogs with allergies have ear infections  and not all dogs with ear 
infections have  allergies Mrs Rs dog has both. Mrs Rs vet hasnt said what  was the primary 
cause of the ear infection.
The independent vets opinion is there is a link. I dont think Mrs R has seen the evidence 
from that vet and Ive asked our investigator to send it to her. In brief he says:
Pseudomonas is also a secondary  pathogen in dogs with otitis externa  due to 
allergic skin diseaseIn my view,  as a clinician who seen countless cases  of chronic  
otitis as referral cases and is familiar with current concepts of the link between ear 
disease and allergic skin disease, I would see the present presentation of ear 
disease as a direct continuation of previous ear and skin disease and NOT as an 
unrelated condition.
I accept that the independent vet only saw Mrs Rs dogs vet records and not the dog. But 
having considered all of the evidence I have I think its more likely than not that Mrs Rs 
dogs ear infection in 2018 was related to his skin allergies.
I appreciate Mrs R had been  able to keep her dogs  skin problems under control for some 
time before the ear infection by using medication for allergies and/or medicated shampoo  
and oil used for helping skin conditions. But her dog had underlying skin allergies. The 
research UKI provided shows a large majority of ear infections are caused  by allergies. Ive 
no evidence that any of the other reasons which generally cause the minority  of infections 
(such as parasites,  tumours, immune mediated  disease and foreign  bodies)  were present for 
Ref: DRN97373363Mrs Rs dog. So I think UKI can reasonably  understand its more likely than not that Mrs Rs 
dogs ear infection and his skin allergies were related.
UKI fairly and reasonably  declined  the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision  
UKI accepted, and Mrs R didnt respond  to, my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI accepted, and Mrs R didnt respond  to, my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
UKI fairly and reasonably  declined  the claim. I dont uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9737336