K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) did not transfer their money 
from an Everyday Saver account into a bond  once  the cheque they had deposited had cleared.
Background
Mr and Mrs L visited a branch of Barclays in October 2018  with the intention of opening  an
account which would give them the best return  on their savings  at that time.
Mr and Mrs L said they wanted to open  the account  using  a cheque but as Mr L did not hold
any accounts with Barclays,  they were  told that a joint account would need to be opened for
them to lodge  the cheque  into and allow  the funds to clear.
Barclays opened an Everyday Saver account  for Mr and Mrs L with an interest rate of
0.30%. Barclays said the different savings options available at that time were discussed with
Mr and Mrs L who ultimately  decided to open an Everyday Saver account as they were not
ready to commit to opening a bond at that time.
In March 2019, Mr L contacted Barclays to ask about the interest rate on their joint savings
account. He thought it should be around  1% but an account statement he received showed it
was much lower than this. The advisor  confirmed the rate was correct and Mr L said he
thought there should have been a loyalty bonus. The advisor said that Barclays  don't offer a
loyalty bonus and Mr L then said he thought he had opened a bond.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to Barclays who did not accept that an incorrect  account  had been
opened or an incorrect rate applied.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs L's complaint and considered  it to be a
misunderstanding between the two parties.  She thought a fair outcome would be for
Barclays to pay half the difference in the interest that would have  accrued  had the funds
been placed in the best bond  available on the day.
Both parties  originally accepted our investigators  view however Mr and Mrs L asked for the
case to be reopened  and referred to an ombudsman  as they were  unhappy  with the interest
rate Barclays used to calculate the sum as well as the period of time it covered.
Mrs L contacted Barclays  in early May 2019  asking  to close the Everyday Saver  account and
be sent a cheque for the balance. However, she was told that as it was a joint account, both
account holders  needed  to visit a branch and provide an instruction  to close  the account.
My provisional findings  
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and why I wasnt minded to uphold  the complaint. I invited  both parties to let me 
have any further  comments  they wished to make in response to my provisional conclusions.
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm minded to not 
uphold the complaint and I've explained  my reasons below.
Ref: DRN99633662Mr and Mrs L told us they wanted  to get the best return  on their savings. They did not 
hold a joint account with Barclays at the time and explained that the Everyday Saver 
account was only opened to enable  their cheque to clear before the funds were 
transferred to a bond.
I think it is likely that this account was opened for the purpose of clearing the cheque  
and because Mr L was not an account holder  at that time.  However,  I don't believe that 
Mr and Mrs L had decided  on the final product they were going to choose  when they 
left the branch on the day in question.
I say this for several reasons. There were no notes on Barclay's system to indicate that 
Mr and Mrs L wanted anything more than an Everyday Saver account.  The Barclay's 
team member had recorded the different product offerings that were discussed but 
there was no indication that follow  up was required with the customer  in the future.
The team member said she placed a premier marker on Mr L's account  to allow them  
to avail of the premier  bond if they wished  to in the future.  She also said she gave 
them information about the current product offerings to take away with them. 
Therefore, it seems most  likely that Mr and Mrs L were still considering their options  at 
the point they left the branch. The team member had given them  all the information 
they needed to make the decision and then either open the bond  online or come back 
to the branch to do it.
Furthermore, I have concerns about Mr L's confusion  when  he contacted Barclays in 
March about the interest rate on the account. He said that he thought the account 
should have had a loyalty bonus but did not mention  that it should have been a bond 
until he was told that a loyalty bonus was not something Barclay's offer.  Although 
Mrs L has since clarified that this was her husband's mistake as they were opening 
numerous accounts at the same time, this makes me doubt Mr and Mrs L's certainty 
about what was agreed on the day with Barclays.
Barclays issued a letter to Mr and Mrs L confirming an Everyday Saver  account had 
been opened. Mr and Mrs L argued that they expected this account to be opened for 
the purpose of clearing  the cheque, so this letter did not raise any concerns with them. 
However, a statement of the account  was sent to Mr and Mrs L in mid-November 2018 
which detailed the account name and the interest rate. Being experienced savers, I 
think they should have realised at that stage  that the funds had not been transferred  to 
a bond account. They should  have contacted Barclays to discuss  why a bond  had not 
been opened when enough  time had passed for the cheque to have cleared.
Mr and Mrs L have also told us that they wanted  to move their funds  into a bond  after 
they had escalated their complaint to us but were told by Barclays  that they were 
unable to discuss moving the funds while they were  in dispute. Having reviewed the 
call during which Mrs L asked to close the account  and move  the funds, I cannot  see 
that Barclays at any stage told Mrs L that the funds could not be moved but they did 
tell her that both account holders would need to visit a branch in order to do so.
Ref: DRN99633663Based on the evidence  available, I think Mr and Mrs L discussed their options with 
Barclays, agreed to open an Everyday Saver account and took the information about 
the different  accounts available home with them to decide which  account  was most 
suitable for them.
The response  to my provisional  decision 
Barclays did not have  any further comments and I did not receive  a response from             
Mr and Mrs L.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and in the absence of any further  comments or evidence  from either  party, 
Ive reached the same  conclusions that I did in my provisional decision.
My final decision  
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.  
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9963366