K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr R took one running credit facility  (RCF) in November 2013. The RCF allowed Mr R to 
either request funds  up to his agreed credit limit of £500 in one go or via multiple 
drawdowns. Each drawdown could be repaid via five monthly instalments. The eleventh and 
last drawdown Mr R took was in August  2014 and the RCF was repaid in August 2015  
following some  repayment difficulties.  
Our latest  adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Sunny  to have granted the facility. The 
adjudicator also reviewed how the facility was used, and thought  it was wrong  for Sunny to 
have allowed drawdowns from 5 May 2014 (eighth drawdown) onwards. He concluded  that 
as it didnt appear that Mr Rs situation was improving by this point having borrowed several 
times up to the RCFs credit limit.      
Neither Mr R nor Sunny have replied to the adjudicators assessment. Sunny has though  
already told us that it thinks the credit and affordability checks  it completed and the way Mr R 
was able to repay each  drawdown didnt suggest  he couldnt make  repayments affordably 
and sustainably. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr R doesnt appear  to disagree  with our adjudicators findings that Sunny wasnt  wrong  to 
have granted  the RCF and allow the drawdowns  before  5 May 2014. It seems therefore  that 
the original decision  to provide the RCF is no longer  in dispute and so I wont be making a 
finding on this part of the complaint. 
Instead, this decision  will focus on whether  Sunny did anything  wrong  when it granted  the 
drawdowns under the RCF from 5 May 2014  until 4 August 2014 (when the last drawdown 
was taken). But I have kept in mind how Mr R had used the facility up to May 2014.
Mr R wasnt given a payday  loan where  he had to repay all of what he borrowed plus the 
interest due when he next got paid. He was given a RCF where there was an expectation 
that hed repay what he borrowed  plus the interest  due within a period of five months. So 
overall, I think that this means the checks  Sunny carried out had to provide enough 
information for it to be able to understand whether Mr R would likely be able to service and 
then repay  this facility  within a reasonable period.  And Ive kept this in mind when thinking 
about how Mr R used  the facility. 
Ref: DRN96174012I think it would be helpful for me to explain that when Sunny gave Mr R this facility it was 
regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance  on this type of 
lending and what it says should be expected from lenders after the facility was granted.
Section 2.2 of the General Principles  of Fair Business Practice section of the OFT 
guidance says:  creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course 
of the credit  agreement, offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing 
financial difficulty.
From the 1 April 2014, Sunny was under the regulation of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). And the relevant  regulatory rules in place were set out in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules  and guidance. So Sunny also 
had to be mindful from this point  of CONC 6.7.2 which  says:
 A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action where 
there are signs of actual  or possible repayment  difficulties. 
So, it wasnt  enough for Sunny to just assess the lending based  on what  it knew  when the 
RCF was approved  in November 2013.  It also needed to monitor how Mr R was using the 
facility - and then step in and provide help when or if it could see Mr R, was or was likely 
having financial difficulties.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
I can see that initially Mr R took £500 - the RCFs credit limit - on 8 November 2013. 
Following two repayments towards the end of November, he then drew  down £161.78  on
3 December 2013, this took his outstanding balance back up to the credit limit. 
Over the next few weeks several  payments  were  made and so Mr R was able to repay the 
outstanding balance in full by 24 January  2014.  He then drew down £275 over the next 
month, followed by a further drawdown  of £306.06  on 25 February  2014,  taking  his 
outstanding balance up to the £500  credit limit for a third time.   
Mr R then continued to make payments at the end of March  and April 2014 whilst drawing 
down relatively small amounts to take his outstanding credit  back up to £500. He took 
£133.07 on 29 March  2014 and £60.77 on 5 May 2014. So by that point, the eighth draw 
down, Mr R had taken  funds up to his credit  limit five times.  
I think what appears to have happened is that Mr R needed to borrow  further from Sunny in 
order to fill a hole in his finances that was made by making repayments to Sunny. And so 
this isnt a sustainable form of borrowing. Mr R continued to borrow  through  to August 2014  
borrowing his limit under the RCF of £500  on a further three occasions. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Sunny could have reasonably believed that Mr R would 
have been able to repay  drawdowns  on the RCF from 5 May 2014 without any undue 
difficulty or without the need to borrow again.  In my view, by this point there was a clear  sign 
of financial difficulty because Mr R was unable to reduce his capital  amount  in a meaningful 
way without needing to borrow again. Indeed,  six months into having the RCF Mr R still 
owed the maximum he could  so he hadnt  made any headway into repaying the principal 
sum. I think its most  likely that Mr R was having problems managing his money. So, I agree 
Ref: DRN96174013with our adjudicator  that Sunny shouldnt have allowed  any further drawdowns from this 
date. 
So, Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint about  the drawdowns from 5 May 2014 onwards and 
Sunny should  put things right as detailed below.
Putting things  right
In order to put things  right Sunny  should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on drawdowns on the RCF from 5 May 
2014;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  on Mr Rs credit file about the RCF from
5 May 2014.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Rs complaint.  
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9617401