K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about  their mortgage  arrangements with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS). They  are unhappy about  the administration of a further advance on their property and 
that conversion of that further advance  and the main  mortgage to an interest-only  basis  was 
declined.
In settlement  of their complaint Mr and Mrs S want to be placed in the position  as though the 
mortgage and further advance had been  converted to an interest-only basis in January 2018. 
They want  a refund of the difference in payments made and the costs they incurred by 
having to re-mortgage to another  lender.  They also want to be compensated for the stress 
and inconvenience  this has caused  them; the suggestion of £1,000  was made.
background
In late 2017 Mr and Mrs S decided they wanted to move  home.  They decided they wanted to 
keep their existing home and rent it out. This meant  they needed  to release equity from the 
existing property to facilitate the purchase of the new house. They  would then need to get 
BoS to consent  to let the existing house and conversion of the mortgage to an interest-only  
basis. 
On 28 November 2017 Mr and Mrs S mortgage  broker emailed BoS to explain it had clients  
who wanted to raise some capital  on an existing property  to buy a new residence  and then 
let out the existing one. The broker asked how much capital could be released, if BoS would 
consider doing  LTB  (let-to-buy)  and what would the BTL  (buy-to-let)  rate be for the existing 
property. There was no mention of Mr and Mrs S wanting to convert  the mortgage to an 
interest-only basis.
BoS has confirmed  it describes  a mortgage on a property  which  was once  a main residence 
and then is rented out when a new main  residence is bought as a LTB mortgage. Whereas a 
BTL mortgage  it considers is one where  the property is purchased for the purpose  of renting 
it out. This is a delineation it uses as the regulatory requirements for how each of these 
situations are slightly  different. However, both types  of mortgage are the same   both 
commercial mortgages which attract a higher interest rate than a residential mortgage 
usually would.
BoS replied the same  day and said it would seem okay  in principle, that the maximum 
lending would be 85% and provided  the broker with a link for him to be able to assess  the 
affordability of the proposal himself. The broker followed up on 4 December 2017  with details 
of what the existing mortgage was and how much was needed for the further advance.  He 
asked how to get an agreement in principle  for the further advance. At this point he informed 
BoS The client will want to switch to interest  only.
The response from BoS explained  what the broker needed to do in relation to the further 
advance. It also directed  him to the intermediarys website in relation to the conversion over 
to interest-only.  It also said The client will have to have a suitable repayment  vehicle  in 
place  to support  the interest only lending .
The relevant  section of the website details that for the sale of the property to be acceptable 
to BoS as a repayment vehicle on a residential mortgage, one applicant  needed  to have an 
income of £100,000 or there had to be a joint income  of £150,000 or more.
Ref: DRN97195412The broker  went back to BoS and confirmed he wasnt sure if we are covered as 
Mr and Mrs S would want to use the sale of the property as repayment as per normal BTL. 
Would that be acceptable? BoS responded on 5 December 2017  by explaining use of the 
property could be used  as long as it had equity of £50,000 or more and it would only accept  
80% of the current equity  value.
The further advance  application was accepted and this was confirmed to Mr and Mrs S on 
17 December 2017. Mr S has told us that when they wanted to drawdown the further 
advance on 2 January 2018, he was told the offer had been made by mistake and the 
advance wasnt available.  Mr S pursued  the matter and the advance  was made that day  
this didnt form part of the complaint to BoS.
Mr and Mrs S applied  for consent to let (CTL)  in December 2017. It was granted  on 
19 December 2017 for 12 months. In the letter confirming  CTL had been agreed, it told 
Mr and Mrs S they must have the intention to re-occupy  the property themselves at some 
point in the future, otherwise they should apply for a BTL mortgage. However, the CTL was 
withdrawn 10 days later as Mr and Mrs S were  still living in the property.
 
On 5 January  2018 Mr and Mrs S asked to convert  the mortgage and further advance to an 
interest-only basis. It was confirmed full repayment  of the mortgage would be achieved  by 
either selling the property  or refinancing on a BTL basis. The new residential address was 
also confirmed. This request was declined as the property wasnt a BTL property and 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs S were asked to make an appointment to speak to one of BoS 
mortgage advisers; it was only after such an appointment that BoS could consider agreeing  
their application.  Mr and Mrs S complained.
BoS didnt uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. It didnt think it had made  any errors. It said it 
would expect a broker to be aware  all applications were  subject  to criteria. It was satisfied  
the broker was given the resource with which to check the criteria for what Mr and Mrs S 
wanted. It believed  it would have been  clear they didnt meet  those criteria. BoS also 
explained an application is never  guaranteed  to be accepted. In addition, it thought 
Mr and Mrs S broker caused confusion by asking questions about a BTL mortgage, when it 
was actually wanted answers  about  a residential mortgage with CTL. It said the answers it 
gave to the later questions had been correct  for a BTL mortgage.
BoS pointed out it appeared Mr and Mrs S intended to rent out the property in the long-term 
and didnt intend to move back  into the property. It said their existing mortgage was not 
designed to operate on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs S moved the mortgage on their former residence to another  lender in 
November 2018.  In order to be able to do so it appears they needed to reduce the amount of 
lending on that property. So they increased their residential mortgage by £29,000. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He recommend  it be upheld as BoS gave  
the broker incorrect information He was persuaded Mr and Mrs S only proceeded with the 
new mortgage arrangements  because they had been misled by BoS. However, he thought 
that had Mr and Mrs S been given the correct  information initially,  they would have ended up 
with the same sort of arrangement they did after they re-mortgaged in November 2018. So 
he didnt think any redress was required to put them in the correct  financial position. 
However, the investigator did consider  that Mr and Mrs S had been put through considerable 
stress and trouble by the situation. He recommended BoS pay them  £500  compensation for 
this.
Ref: DRN97195413Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept the investigators findings. They said the decision to change to 
interest-only with BoS was made on the basis they were existing customers  and it would be 
easier to switch. They had other options available to them  which would have enabled  them 
to carry out the same  plan and if BoS had told them from the start it wasnt  possible to go 
with it, they would have taken one of the alternative options. They maintained  they had 
incurred costs they wouldnt have incurred if they had re-mortgaged  away from BoS 
immediately.
BoS also rejected  the investigators  findings.  It pointed out the questions  asked by the broker 
were generic  queries and not referenced to a specific existing mortgage account. Nothing 
about the existing lending  would have been  checked  when answering the questions.  It also 
pointed out that the broker referred to a LTB or BTL mortgage, not a residential mortgage 
with consent to let. 
Mr and Mrs S provided a further  explanation  of their financial  loss due to BoS not giving 
them the mortgage arrangements they wanted and how the situation  had come  about. They 
also provided a letter  from the broker. The broker noted it had been accepted BoS had given 
it incorrect information, which led to it recommending  the action  it did. It said there were 
other options available at the time, which would have been explored if BoS had said it 
wouldnt convert the mortgage to interest-only.  It listed some lenders which would consider a 
LTB mortgage  at 80-85% loan to value (which didnt  include  Mr and Mrs S new lender).  
The broker  said best advice at the time was to approach the existing  lender  first, as it would 
be quicker and more cost effective as there  would  be no arrangement  fees and the early 
repayment charge  wouldnt  have to be paid. As BoS confirmed it would be able to help,  none  
of the other lenders were  approached. The broker also said Mr and Mrs S had also indicated  
that if the new arrangements they wanted  hadnt been possible, they wouldnt move home.
The new information  didnt change the investigators  conclusions. As agreement  couldnt be 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me for consideration.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 May 2019  in which I explained my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
The outcome of this complaint revolves around  the emails exchanged  between BoS and Mr 
and Mrs S broker.
I think it is clear  from the information Mr and Mrs S have provided that following the 
purchase of their new home they wanted to keep their existing mortgage on its existing 
residential basis. This being rather than re-mortgaging the property to a BTL mortgage 
designed for rental properties. However,  when deciding this case I have to consider what  
BoS would  have understood Mr and Mrs S wanted based on only the information contained 
in the brokers  emails, as that is all it had available to it. I am not persuaded this information 
would have made it clear  what  Mr and Mrs S plans were. I say this as the broker  repeatedly 
refers to the mortgage going forward as a BTL or LTB, which would imply Mr and Mrs S 
intended to re-mortgage their property to a mortgage suitable for a long-term rental property, 
rather than keeping it on a residential basis with CTL.
It appears BoS answered what  questions it did answer in relation to the type of mortgage it 
was asked about. I say what  questions it did answer, as I note that at times  BoS directed 
the broker to resources from which it could come to its own conclusions.  The resources 
Ref: DRN97195414available to the broker made  the requirements  for conversion of a residential mortgage to an 
interest-only basis clear  and it would have been clear Mr and Mrs S didnt qualify. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for BoS to refuse  the conversion of the existing residential  
mortgage to an interest-only basis when it received the request, as Mr and Mrs S didnt meet 
the criteria to be allowed  to do so.
My provisional decision was sent to both Mr and Mrs S and BoS by post and email.  None 
were returned and the email addresses used  are those the parties  used to correspond with 
us during the complaint  investigation. As such  I am satisfied the parties  received my 
provisional decision -neither responded to it. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my conclusions.  I dont consider this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9719541