K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a consolidation  re-mortgage Mr and Mrs B took out in 2006 on advice 
given by a representative of a business  that is no longer trading. Responsibility  for its 
activities has been taken  on by Scottish Friendly  Assurance Society  Limited (SF) 
Mr and Mrs B, who have  third party representation, believe  it was mis-sold.
background
The mortgage SF recommended  Mr and Mrs B take out was for £104,500 plus fees, 
repayable after nine years  on an interest-only  basis. The application form shows  that the 
purpose of the mortgage was to repay an existing mortgage of £57,000, and consolidate 
debts of around £47,000 on eleven credit card accounts. 
When the mortgage came to its term end, Mr and Mrs B didnt have any means  of repaying 
the capital other than selling their home. The lender  was intending to take possession action, 
but they were  able to sell to a business that has allowed them  to continue  living  in the house.  
But theres a shortfall outstanding to their lender.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative, AW, says the mortgage was unsuitable  and therefore  
mis-sold. The reasons  given, in summarised form, are as follows:
the re-mortgage involved switching from a mainstream to a sub-prime  lender;
the mortgage recommended was interest-only  over nine years  without an adequate 
discussion of what a suitable repayment strategy  would be;
SFs advisor recommended  consolidating the credit card debt (which was unsecured)  
into the interest-only mortgage, instead of recommend  they speak to a specialist in debt 
advice. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think SF had done  anything  wrong, so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. AW has asked  that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments  to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on 
it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. Ive taken account of 
what both parties have said at the outset. Ive taken  account of what  the adjudicator  said and 
what AW said in response.  But the conclusions that follow are mine, and cover the issues  
that Ive found  the complaint to turn on. Its also important to keep  in mind that I assess  the 
complaint by reference to the regulatory standards and general  business practices that 
applied in 2006. They were very different from those that apply today, which  are much  
stricter than before.
The starting point  in a complaint of this type is usually the point-of-sale documentation;  
unfortunately on this occasion, not all of that material is available. We have the fact-find, 
mortgage application and offer, but not the report summarising Mr and Mrs Bs situation  and 
reasons for SFs recommendations. AW says SFs failure to produce  the report hasnt been 
Ref: DRN98081732given sufficient weight,  but we have  to work with what we have. I have no regulatory power, 
and its not my role to punish a business for not retaining a document. I simply review and 
determine the complaint on the basis of the documents that are available.  
Even without  all the point-of-sale material, I have enough to decide  the complaint,  which  is 
more straightforward than its been made  to look. AW says the advice from SF had a 
catastrophic effect on Mr and Mrs Bs finances,  but its apparent to me that in 2006  
Mr and Mrs B were  already,  not to put too fine a point on it, in a bit of a hole financially. Their  
mortgage was in arrears  and they had run up almost as much  debt again in credit  cards.  
Everything Ive seen tells me that consolidating the credit card debt into a mortgage should 
have made  a very substantial improvement in Mr and Mrs Bs day-to-day  finances. Ill come 
back to the question of debt advice  shortly.
Recommending a mortgage from a sub-prime  lender was most likely a necessity brought on 
by Mr and Mrs Bs troubled financial history at that point. As I said earlier,  they had a lot of 
debt, and were in arrears  to their existing lender. That combination would have  very much 
narrowed their options when it came to choice of lender. 
As far as the mortgage type and term are concerned, the nine-year term looks  to have been 
chosen to coincide  with what was anticipated  at the time to be Mr Bs retirement  age. 
Changing from repayment to interest-only  wasnt that unusual in 2006, and nor was it 
necessarily a problem,  provided Mr and Mrs B were aware of the need to have a repayment 
strategy. AW has had a lot to say on this subject particularly; I dont reproduce  the detail 
here, but Ive read it all.
The difficulty  here is that this was 2006;  all that SF was required to do at the time was to 
point out to Mr and Mrs B the need  for a repayment strategy, and record whatever  
information they provided about what their strategy would be. Im satisfied that happened.  
SF wasnt required to double check the information Mr and Mrs B gave them about disposing 
of another property,  to ensure that it was a suitable and plausible strategy. 
That level of responsibility  didnt come in until 2014. In that context, AWs detailed conjecture 
about what exactly might (or might not have been) discussed in connection with a second 
property is largely immaterial. If the reality now is that Mr and Mrs B dont  have the means 
for repaying  the mortgage capital that theyd indicated theyd have back in 2006, thats not 
down to SF. 
I now come  back, as I said I would, to AWs argument that SF should  have recommended 
Mr and Mrs B seek specialist advice about their credit  card debt rather  than consolidate it 
into the re-mortgage. Its important here to remember that the re-mortgage  didnt create  new 
debt that didnt already exist. It replaced an aggregate debt broadly equal to the existing 
mortgage balance  and other  outstanding sums that numerous other  individual creditors  had 
previously made available - separately - to Mr and Mrs B. 
My first observation is Ive seen nothing that would have me think Mr and Mrs B believe 
those creditors acted  irresponsibly in the lending decisions they made.  My second 
observation is that Im not persuaded how much  Mr and Mrs B have reflected on their own 
actions in accumulating  the debt to begin with. 
I dont intend that comment  unkindly but as I alluded to earlier,  its apparent  Mr and Mrs Bs 
financial problems began  long before SF recommended the mortgage being complained 
about here. The recommendation to re-mortgage with consolidation was made in anticipation 
Ref: DRN98081733(reasonably in my view) that it would  have made  things better  by reducing the amount they 
were paying  for their debts each month.
Of course,  when making their lending decisions,  the unsecured creditors  will have known 
what recovery options were open to them. But unsecured lenders still lend in the reasonable 
expectation that theyll be repaid in full, and Mr and Mrs Bs former unsecured  creditors  were 
repaid in full, from the re-mortgage. I dont  think its unreasonable  that Mr and Mrs B ended 
up paying back all of the money  theyd borrowed on credit cards - and had presumably 
enjoyed the benefit of. Its certainly  not a reason for finding that SF was wrong to 
recommend consolidating their unsecured debts into their mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9808173