K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2008. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg (Barclays), mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr M nor Barclays have provided any further  comments  for me to consider. I 
therefore see no reason  to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  So it follows that I dont think  that the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold 
 so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98042782provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2008. Mr M says Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Egg (Barclays),  mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 2008 at the same  time as taking  out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and based  on what Ive seen so far, I intend to not uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think  Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant remember this.
Barclays has given me examples of the pages from the online  application  it thinks  Mr M 
would have completed, and they show he would have been asked to choose  if he wanted the 
policy and select either yes or no options on screen. Barclays has said Mr M wouldnt have 
been able to proceed with his application  unless he chose one of these options. I cant be 
sure exactly  what  he saw and filled in, but I think its likely Mr M would have  seen these 
options when  applying for the credit  card and that the PPI was added as a result of him 
selecting yes.
Ive also been  given a copy of the credit  agreement which was created  after he submitted his 
application online. On this document there is a section about PPI. There  is a box to tick if PPI 
is required and I can see that the box has been  ticked on the form. Mr M has also ticked  in 
the electronic  signature box to confirm  his selection  of this product. If Mr M didnt  want  to 
take out the PPI he could have left this section  blank.
As this credit card and PPI policy were taken out online, there  wouldnt  have  been  any 
interaction with Barclays. So Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M. This means it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the 
information he needed to decide for himself  if it was right for him.
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think Barclays had given  Mr M clear enough information 
about the cost of the policy and how this would be charged on his account. Due to the 
information Mr M had given us about his personal  circumstances  and financial position, 
Ref: DRN98042783our adjudicator said he didnt think Mr M would  have bought  the policy if he had known 
what the true cost and benefit was on this cover.
Barclays has said that Mr M has not been consistent with the information about  the 
amount of savings  or other means  he had at the time of the sale.  In the complaint  
questionnaire we received from Mr Ms representatives, it stated that he had savings 
worth more than six months  but less than 12 months of his salary which he could have 
used to meet  his repayments. But Barclays has shown us two other  questionnaires which 
it says it received previously  one which was signed and dated in 2015  (when  Mr M 
originally made a complaint to Barclays) and the other which  they received from the 
representatives earlier this year. On both of these  forms, Mr M has detailed that he had no 
savings or that the amount  he did have was the equivalent of less than three months of 
his salary.
And Barclays has also provided internal records of two savings accounts Mr M held at 
the time of taking out the policy and I can see from this information that Mr M appears to 
have had a very low balance in each  of these  accounts. So this would suggest  that 
Mr Ms recollection of his financial  situation  at the time of taking out the policy may have 
been affected over time.
I agree with our adjudicator that its possible the information Barclays  gave Mr M about the
PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But I dont  think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking  out the cover.  Mr M was eligible for the policy  and he doesnt 
seem to have been effected by any of the main exclusions or limits to the cover, such as 
unusual working  arrangements  or suffering from a medical condition of which  he was 
already aware.
And I think  this policy could have been  useful to him. Im aware  Mr M has told us he was 
entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay from his employer  if he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. But this policy  would have paid out for up to 12 
months which would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, his full pay. And, as it 
seems Mr M didnt  have much in the way of savings, I think  he could have found this policy 
helpful if he was unable to work  or lost his job.
Mr M has said he could have  asked  his family for help if needed. Whilst I appreciate  his 
family would have wanted to help him, such support cant  be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they are unable to provide  any financial 
assistance. So this doesnt change my decision.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Im aware that Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN98042784Ive been made aware by Barclays that mistakes  were made in the way it handled Mr Ms 
complaint. It says it failed  to re-review  his complaint from 2015 when it was contacted 
earlier this year and made errors in letters sent to Mr M about  the status of the policy.  
Barclays has apologised for these  errors  and wants to offer Mr M a payment of £50.00 for 
any distress or inconvenience  caused.  If Mr M would like to accept this offer he can let us 
know or contact Barclays directly.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I currently dont intend to uphold  this complaint. So it 
follows that I dont  think that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Ref: DRN9804278