K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Aviva Insurance  Limited  has declined an insurance claim he made  for 
theft of his mobile phone  from his car.
background
 
Mr M holds  a Buildings and Contents insurance  policy which  is underwritten  by Aviva 
Insurance Limited. His cover includes Personal Belongings Cover. Mr Ms mobile  phone  is 
specified as one of his personal belongings.
In November 2018 Mr M left his phone in his car while going out for dinner. Someone broke 
into his car by smashing the window,  and stole his mobile phone.  He raised  a claim with 
Aviva for the theft of his phone, but it declined the claim. 
Aviva says there were  inconsistencies in Mr Ms recollections of the events of the theft.  It 
says he initially said his phone fell out of his coat without him noticing,  which  is why it was 
left unattended in his car. But that he later said hed left it in a compartment  that wasnt 
easily visible. In any case, Aviva declined his claim because it said Mr Ms policy contains a 
specific exclusion for theft from an unattended vehicle, unless it was locked in a specific  
compartment or the boot  which  it wasnt.
Mr M didnt  agree that this was fair. He said the exclusion wasnt  drawn to his attention  when 
he bought the policy. If it was, he says he wouldnt have bought the policy.  Mr M also said 
that his phone was safely placed  in a position  where  it wasnt visible  to someone outside of 
the car.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service where it was looked  at by one of our investigators. 
She didnt  think his complaint should be upheld. She said there was an exclusion in Mr Ms 
policy which  applied to the circumstances of his claim and that the exclusion was sufficiently 
outlined in the policy information  and documentation.  So she thought  Avivas  decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable.
Mr M didnt  agree, so because no agreement has been reached,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr M that Ive thought very carefully about everything hes said and 
provided. But having done so, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why in 
more detail.
Mr M feels strongly his claim should  be accepted. He says his car was parked in a city 
centre and was locked  and secured.  It was broken  into by force and he reported it to the 
police as he shouldve  done. He says his claim is genuine and therefore should  be accepted 
by Aviva.
Ref: DRN99187942When making an insurance claim, its the policy holders (Mr Ms) responsibility  to show that 
an insured event has occurred and caused them a loss. If the policy holder has shown, or 
the insurer agrees  that an insured event has occurred and caused a loss, the onus  switches 
to the insurer. It should either accept the claim,  or show that the loss isnt covered. One of 
the ways it can do this is by showing that an exclusion applies. An exclusion is a term in the 
insurance policy which specifies that something is not covered.
Aviva seems  to have accepted that an insured event (the theft) occurred. It has declined  
Mr Ms claim  because  of an exclusion in the policy. But Mr M says the exclusion  wasnt  
made clear to him when he took out the policy.
From what  Ive seen, Mr M took out his policy online through  a broker. Ive seen a copy  of 
Mr Ms demands and needs statement from the sale which indicates that Mr M wanted 
optional all risk cover for his mobile phone. Mr M provided our service with this information, 
along with what  appears to be a summary of the key features and benefits of each section of 
the policy. Aviva says this information  wouldve been presented to Mr M, by the broker,  when 
he completed his online  quote. 
In the Personal Belongings  section  of the key features and benefits summary, under the 
heading what  are the significant or unusual exclusions or limitations? it says:
Restrictions apply for theft from an unattended vehicle and a limit of £1,000  applies.  
See your policy booklet for details
The heading  is in bold, so I think it is sufficiently prominent. And it makes  it clear that the 
exclusion is significant and/or unusual. It directs  the policy  holder to the policy  booklet  
which also wouldve been  provided during the sale.
In the Personal Belongings  section  of Mr Ms policy booklet, under the heading  Exclusions 
applying to the personal belongings  section  it says:
Theft from an unattended  vehicle (other than from a locked and concealed boot,  
concealed luggage compartment or closed  glove compartment of a securely locked 
vehicle which has been broken Into by using force and violence)
In my experience, this exclusion isnt particularly unusual for policies like Mr Ms. And from 
what Ive seen I think its most likely Mr M was given sufficient information at the point  of sale 
to be able to determine that an exclusion applied to theft from an unattended car  in certain 
circumstances.
Mr M says his phone  was locked securely  in his car on the night it was stolen. But hes given 
conflicting accounts of exactly where in his car the phone was stored.  He initially  said it fell 
from his pocket into the central section of his car, then later that it was carefully placed in the 
Bluetooth compartment  which  is beneath his dashboard.  But ultimately, neither of the places 
Mr M has mentioned are a locked and concealed boot, a concealed luggage compartment or 
a closed glove  compartment. 
So, taking into account all of the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, I dont think Avivas 
decision to decline Mr Ms claim is unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN99187943my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9918794