K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in October 2000.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I wasnt intending on 
upholding Mrs Ds complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further  comments and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mrs D nor FICL  responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in October 2000.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept responsibility for the complaint.  To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
Ref: DRN96545522Mrs D bought  the PPI policy a few years after she took out the store card. The policy  was taken  out to 
protect her store  card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. 
FICL has told us that the PPI was sold to Mrs D during  a telephone  call some time after Mrs D took 
out the store  card. FICL says Mrs D would  have been given a choice  about the PPI. Unfortunately, 
FICL hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale took place or a copy  of the 
sales script the lender  would  have  used when  selling the PPI to Mrs D. This isnt surprising given the 
sale took place over 18 years ago. As a result,  I dont  know what  was said in the discussion between  
Mrs D and the lender.
So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of sale.  It 
looks like Mrs D initially  applied for her store card without PPI. FICL  later phoned  her to sell her a 
policy. And following  that call, a policy was set up. Mrs D had already had use of her card for some 
time before  the PPI was added to it, so I think she would have known  that she didnt  have to have PPI 
with her card  and I think  she would  have realised that it had been added  to her card. Overall, I dont 
think Ive seen  enough in this case to make me think its more likely that the policy was added without 
Mrs D agreement.  Instead,  I think its more  likely Mrs D agreed  to take it out, knowing that she didnt  
have to.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it did have 
to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been  
particularly about the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs D chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing 
medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable.
Mrs D has told us she would have  been  entitled to statutory sick pay if she was too unwell to work. 
Shes also told us she could have relied on her family and parents to help with her store card 
repayments.
Having thought about what Mrs D has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she wouldnt 
have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to the 
statutory sick pay Mrs D would have received. The PPI also would  have paid a benefit  if Mrs D was 
ever made  redundant.
Ive also thought  about  what Mrs D has said about the fact that she could  have relied  on her family 
and parents to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think  this meant that the PPI wasnt useful 
for her. While  Mrs Ds family and parents  would want to help, their financial situation could change 
and so this help couldnt always  be relied on.
So overall, I think  Mrs D could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
Ref: DRN96545523I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9654552