K820x#14complaint
Miss Q complains  that Virgin Money  Plc (Virgin)  have not upheld  her chargeback request.
background
In December 2016 Miss Q was due to fly on some tickets she booked using her Virgin credit 
card. But she had visa issues  and was therefore unable to fly. She transferred the tickets  to 
flights on 3 September  2017 but subsequently became pregnant and, as the flights were  
around the time of the birth, she couldnt  take these  flights either.  The merchant said the 
flights were non-refundable so she got in touch with Virgin  and asked them to process a 
chargeback.
The call agent at Virgin told Miss Q her money would be returned to her account but he 
returned it to her current account  by mistake and failed to explain to Miss Q that, if the 
merchant successfully disputed the chargeback, the money could be taken back. The 
merchant did successfully  dispute  the chargeback and therefore the money  was taken back  
from Miss Qs account. She complains that Virgin were wrong to do this. She says the flights 
were refundable and that the merchant has therefore breached the contract  it formed with 
her.
Virgin spoke with the merchant who explained  that Miss Q had been given the option to get 
a refund for the original  flights  or to reschedule. They  said shed chosen to reschedule to the 
following September but that these flights were  non-refundable. They explained that Miss Q 
would have been shown the flights werent refundable, on the mobile app, when she booked  
them. So Virgin said they did not have information  upon which  to make  a successful 
chargeback request. They did accept that their agent hadnt given the correct advice and 
had paid the refund to the wrong  account  and in recognition of this they offered Miss Q £150. 
But Miss Q was still disappointed. She disputed the merchants suggestion shed  been  
offered a refund for the earlier flights and she said, if she had, she would have taken it. She 
said that one leg of the flights  booked  was refundable but because the other wasnt the 
merchant had suggested the whole  flight wasnt subject to refund  and she didnt think  this 
was fair. So she referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her view.
The investigator didnt  think Virgin had done anything wrong when rejecting the chargeback  
claim. She explained  that the merchant had provided evidence  to show Miss Q wouldve 
been advised, on the mobile app, that her tickets werent refundable.  So she thought  Virgin 
had applied  the scheme correctly. She did think theyd made  a mistake when not advising 
Miss Q that the repayment of her transaction may be reversed and when they paid it to the 
wrong account. But she was content  that the £150  compensation theyd offered was 
sufficient in the circumstances and she didnt  think they needed to take any further action.
But Miss Q disagreed. She said the merchant was wrong to suggest that, as part of the flight 
was non-refundable, the whole flight should  be. She said this wasnt  referred to anywhere  in 
the terms and conditions. She went on to say that she didnt think it was important that this 
was a delayed  flight: she was still travelling  and the same conditions applied. So Miss Q 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN98275912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Virgin has done  anything wrong here as I think the merchants terms precluded 
a refund on Miss Qs flights  and a chargeback couldnt be approved. I know that will really 
disappoint Miss Q but please let me explain in more detail.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid either through a chargeback  or a section 75 claim.  This 
section of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  says that in certain circumstances, a finance 
provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made  by the 
supplier. 
Ive reviewed Miss Qs eticket and can see that the outbound flights are listed  as fare choice 
YV and the inbound as fare choice  YS. YV fares are listed as refundable for a fee whilst  
YS fares  are clearly non-refundable.  On review of the merchants modification guide I can 
see it says under cancellations and refunds that:
Most restricted refund rule applies in the event that different fare choices are combined
The most restrictive refund here is the non-refundable section of the trip so I think  its clear  
that the terms, which applied to the booking of Miss Qs flights, would make the flights non-
refundable as the fare choices were combined, and in those circumstances the merchants 
most restricted rule applies.
I can see that the merchant has also explained that this will have been highlighted to Miss Q 
when she made the booking  using  their booking app. Ive seen examples of how that app 
works and Ive noted that the refund status is shown prior to booking.
As the terms dictate  that the flights  would  have been non-refundable and the app provides 
notification of this, its clear that the merchant has applied the terms of the contract  correctly  
and hasnt breached it. So I dont think Virgin did anything wrong  when they rejected 
Miss Qs chargeback request. And for the same reasons,  I dont think a claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) would have  been successful either: there  had been no 
breach of contract.
But Virgin did make  mistakes when they failed to tell Miss Q her refund could be rescinded 
and also when they paid the refund  into the wrong  account. They offered £150 to 
compensate Miss Q for their mistakes  and I think this is a reasonable offer in the 
circumstances. So Ill be asking Virgin to pay this but wont be asking it to take any other 
action.
Ref: DRN98275913my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Virgin Money Plc to 
pay Miss Q, if they havent  already done  so, £150  to compensate  her for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by their errors.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9827591