K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a PPI policy in one of Nationwides branches to protect their existing 
mortgage repayments. Nationwide cant confirm when the sale took place. It says it wouldve 
been between  1987 - when it first started selling PPI - and 1990 when it has its earliest  
record of a PPI premium being paid. Their mortgage ran from 1984 to 1995.  
The policy was in Mrs Ts sole name and gave her accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities   so, on what  I 
consider is most likely given the available evidence and what  we know about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs T that the PPI was optional  and they had to 
agree to take it out. They say it wasnt fully explained  to them  and they werent told they 
could look elsewhere.  Nationwide says Mr and Mrs T would have been given a leaflet about 
PPI and the decision to take out the policy would have been entirely their choice. 
I cant know what was discussed during  the sale. And Nationwide doesnt have Mr and 
Mrs Ts paperwork but thats not surprising, or unreasonable,  given how long ago it was. I 
have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ts comments, but I have to take into account  how 
long ago the sale was and how that might affect  what they recall. Also, Nationwide didnt 
have to tell Mr and Mrs T about other PPI polices available. Overall,  without  stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  uphold their complaint on this point.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check the policy  
was right for Mrs T. But it had to give Mr and Mrs T enough information  so they could decide 
for themselves whether  they wanted  to buy it. Its possible the information the society  gave
Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think  they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this 
because:
Mrs T was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN91454932Mrs T wasnt  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits, such  
as those on certain types  of employment  contract. As she couldve benefitted from the 
full extent of the cover,  I think it unlikely they needed better information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations.  
Mrs T says she was entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was 
sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 24 
months. She said she would have  received  a good redundancy payment due to her 
length of service, but again the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 
24 months.  It would  have allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment 
giving increased  financial  stability at an already difficult  time.
I dont know when  the cost was made  clear  but the policy  was competitively priced  and 
apparently affordable.  
In summary,  it seems  Mr and Mrs T chose  to take out the policy for Mrs T and so appear to 
have wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different  decision if 
better information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have  taken out the 
policy.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs T have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9145493