K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2003. The policy covered Mr G only. Mr and Mrs G say Santander  UK Plc mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs G that they had a choice 
about it. Mr and Mrs G say they never agreed  to the PPI and werent  given a choice about it. 
But they havent been able to give us much more  detail  about what  happened  or was said at 
the sale.
Santander hasnt  been able to send us a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application. But it 
has sent us examples of the forms it says were in use at the time.  And these make  it clear 
that the PPI is optional  and separate to the mortgage.
Santander has also sent us copies of a PPI schedule sent to Mr and Mrs G, which  set out 
the level of cover they had selected, the cost and the benefit of the PPI. And Santander has 
sent us a copy of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs G confirming receipt of their PPI application 
form.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Santander did make  it clear to Mr and 
Mrs G that they had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs G chose to take it, knowing 
they didnt have to.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check  that it was right for 
them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr G doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs G have  told us 
Mr G wouldve been entitled to full sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr and Mrs G clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Gs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection he policy offered appealing.
And, for the same reasons I think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr and Mrs G if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs G off taking it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly.
Ref: DRN98960512Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission  was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs G back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019 . 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896051