K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr S says Northern  Bank Limited  (Northern)  mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt miss-sold because:
I think Northern made  it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this now, many  
years later.  I say this because Ive seen the application form. To get the cover  Mr S 
had to select it and he would have had a choice about doing  that. And the PPI is 
referred to as optional. So it seems  most  likely that Mr S did choose it and did so 
knowing he had a choice  about it. 
Northern recommended the policy  to Mr S, so it had to make sure the PPI was right 
for Mr S. And from what Mr S told us about his circumstances at the time,  I think  it 
did. 
I say this because  Mr S was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. Mr S told us he was self employed. But the 
terms that applied  to making a successful claim for unemployment  as a self 
employed person  were  not onerous. And Mr S seems to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this as Mr S told us that he had no savings or other insurance he could 
have relied on in the event he was stopped from working through  ill health, or if he 
lost his work. This policy  couldve  covered  10% of his monthly balance for up to 12 
months. So, I think he couldve  found  this cover  useful.
Its possible the information Northern gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons given above that led me to think the policy  
was suitable, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr S off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Northern doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Northern has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
When the policy was sold, Northern expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr S about that. 
Because Northern  didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN97459852what the business needs  to do
Northern has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Northern should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest Mr S paid 
because of that.
Northern should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern should also pay Mr S 8%* simple 
interest if Mr S paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand theyve already 
paid him back some  of the undisclosed  commission that was more than half the cost of 
the PPI policy.
But Northern Bank Limited have  now told us that theyre making Mr S a revised offer 
because the way they calculated the original offer wasnt quite right.  
Taking everything into account,  I think this is a fair way to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9745985