K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background 
Mr and Mrs M were  contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as H, which  supplied  and installed 
solar panel  systems. Following a meeting at their home,  Mr and Mrs M agreed  to enter into a 
contract with H for it to supply and install a solar  panel system costing £7,995. To fund this, 
they also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. They  said that H had told 
them that the solar  panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments 
would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income  and any savings theyd make 
by using the electricity  generated  from the solar panels rather than buying it from their 
energy provider. But that hadnt happened. Instead,  their monthly  loan repayments had been  
much higher.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said that it didnt have enough information to confirm 
whether the benefits of the solar panels had been misrepresented. Unhappy with the 
response, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, Shawbrook made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had calculated the potential savings and income to Mr and Mrs M from 
the solar panels  over the term of the loan. It offered to restructure  the loan so that they would 
pay no more than this over the 10 year term. In effect its offer was to make the panels cost 
neutral i.e. the cost of the panels would match any benefits Mr and Mrs M should expect to 
receive. When it carried out its calculation, Shawbrook worked out that Mr and Mrs M had 
been paying more each  month than they should  have been  if the panels  had been  self-
funding. It offered to pay 8% simple  interest on the overpayment  amount and gave  them four 
options as to how they would like the overpayments and interest to be used:
1.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding loan and they continue to pay their existing monthly payment resulting in 
their loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding loan and they pay a new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end of 
the loan term,
3.the overpayments and associated interest are refunded to them and they continue to 
pay their existing monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or,
4.the overpayments and associated interest are refunded to them and they pay a new,  
lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the current loan term.
Shawbrook also offered to pay £100 for any trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by Shawbrook was fair and reasonable. Mr and 
Mrs M didnt  agree. They said they were promised that the solar panels  wouldnt cost them  
anything and wanted them removed from their home.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN92300402My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say that they were  approached by H and during  a sales  meeting  at their home 
told that the solar  panels would be entirely  self-financing. As neither  Shawbrook nor Mr and 
Mrs M dispute  that the benefits of the solar panel system were  misrepresented  my decision 
will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  for Shawbrook to arrange  for the 
solar panels  to be removed from Mr and Mrs Ms home and to refund them all payments 
made minus any benefits they may have received. Here I dont think  it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removals of the solar  panels from their home.  Rather, I think  the 
fair outcome is to put Mr and Mrs M in a position  where the panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing them to keep the panels, Im satisfied that they will 
likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of 
the loan has finished).
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the 
actual and estimated  future performance of Mr and Mrs Ms system.
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs Ms solar  panels it will use a number of assumptions.  These assumptions include the 
self-consumption rate (the amount of electricity  generated  by the solar panels that Mr and 
Mrs M are expected to use or self-consume); electricity price inflation, the degradation rate 
and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these appear reasonable. As 
an example, the actual  average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem to be far from the 
assumed figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been  used  by 
Shawbrook provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Shawbrook has calculated that the total benefits Mr and Mrs M should expect to receive from 
the solar panels  is £7,417.97. This means  that their monthly loan repayments, if the panels 
had been self-funding, should have been around  £61.82 a month. Instead, they have been 
paying around £105 a month.
This means  they have been paying around  £43 a month more  than they should have been.  
As they have been deprived  of the monthly overpayment, I would expect Shawbrook  to add 
8% simple  interest from the date any overpayments were made until the date of settlement  
and it has done  this.
Shawbrook has given  Mr and Mrs M four options  to choose from as to how they would like 
any refund  of overpayments and interest to be used:
Ref: DRN923004031.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding loan and they continue to pay their existing monthly payment resulting in 
their loan finishing early,
2.the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the balance of the 
outstanding loan and they pay a new, lower monthly loan repayment until the end of 
the loan term,
3.the overpayments and associated interest are refunded to them and they continue to 
pay their existing monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or,
4.the overpayments and associated interest are refunded to them and they pay a new,  
lower monthly loan repayment until the end of the current loan term.
I consider the above to be fair as it gives Mr and Mrs M the flexibility  to have  the 
overpayments to be returned to them if they would prefer. If Mr and Mrs M accept my 
decision, they should indicate on the acceptance  form which  option they would like to 
accept.
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs M have undoubtedly been caused some  trouble and upset 
and consequently Ill make an award  of £100 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it , Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
allow Mr and Mrs M to keep  the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs M from the panels  over the 
10 year term of the loan and rework  it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, 
it should use Mr and Mrs Ms electricity bills and Fit statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of the settlement,
allow Mr and Mrs M to decide how theyd like their overpayments and associated  
interest to be used, using  the four options described above; and,
pay Mr and Mrs M £100  for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much it has taken off. It 
should also give them a certificate showing this, if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN9230040