K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that when Barclays Bank  UK PLCs online banking services  werent  working 
he had to visit a branch  to pay bills. Mr H lives in a rural location and has said visiting a 
branch was inconvenient.  
background
Mr H has a personal current  account  and business  current account with Barclays.  On 
20 September 2018 he wanted to use Barclays online  banking  facility to pay bills but 
because of technical issues he wasnt able to do so. As a result, Mr H visited a branch 
instead and has told us this wasnt convenient because  of where he lives.  
Barclays paid Mr H £40 in relation to his personal  account and £200 in relation to his 
business account because of the problems he faced. 
Mr H asked this service  to look at his complaint about his personal account as he didnt feel 
Barclays offer was reasonable. Mr H said hed like £100 to resolve his complaint. 
An adjudicator looked at Mr Hs complaint but felt Barclays offer of £40 was fair so didnt ask 
it to increase the award. The adjudicator also noted that Barclays  had paid Mr H £200  in 
relation to his business account  so hed received £240 across both complaints. Mr H doesnt 
agree that the settlement Barclays paid is fair and asked for his case  to be appealed so its 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed there were technical  problems with its online service on 
20 September 2018 which meant Mr H wasnt able to use it to pay bills. Barclays accepts it 
wasnt able to provide  an online service to Mr H when  he needed it and paid him 
compensation for the inconvenience that caused. I now need to decide  whether the 
settlement was fair. 
I know Mr H has only asked us to look at his complaint about his personal account. And Ive 
thought carefully  about whether the £40 Barclays paid in relation to the technical  problems  
Mr H experienced is fair on its own. Having  done so, Im satisfied that it is. I appreciate  Mr H 
lives in a rural location which makes  visiting a branch harder. Ive looked  at how far he is 
from his nearest branch and can see theres one around seven miles away.  So I havent 
found Mr Hs location meant visiting a branch was unreasonably inconvenient.  Although I 
appreciate using his online banking wouldve been  more convenient. 
I understand there was also additional  stress caused by having to park his car but I think  the 
£40 Barclays paid Mr H fairly reflects the overall impact of the technical issues on Mr H. So 
Im not telling Barclays to increase its offer.
I also note that Mr H complained about  the effect of the technical issues  in relation to his 
business account and Barclays paid him £200.  That means Mr H has received a total of 
£240 for a technical issue that meant he had to visit a branch.
Ref: DRN99397882Ive carefully considered  how Barclays dealt with Mr Hs concerns and whether it paid fair 
compensation. Having done so, Im satisfied  that Barclays has dealt with the complaint 
reasonably and the settlement its paid is fair in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not 
telling Barclays to take any further action  to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9939788