K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Ms M complain  that Azimo Ltd wouldnt open an account for their charitable 
organisation and closed  Mr Ss personal account.
background
This complaint is brought by both Mr S and Ms M. But, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr S as most of the information  has been provided  by 
him.
In 2018, Mr S decided  to set up a charitable  organisation  (which Ill call H) in order to send 
money to people in need  overseas. He says he had been donating  money personally for a 
few years,  but wanted to make donations  through H going forward. He says hed had a 
personal account with Azimo for several years. So he decided to open a new Azimo account 
in the name  of H. He then planned to make the money transfers abroad using that new 
account. He says he also wanted  to use it to send money to his family overseas.
But Azimo  didnt agree  to open an account  in the name of H. And it decided  not to carry out 
any further transactions for Mr S and to close his personal account. Mr S says that, as a 
result, he wasnt able to send money  to his family  in time for Christmas. And he says the 
situation has caused him a lot of annoyance and inconvenience.
When Mr S complained to Azimo,  it said its decision was final.  It said the decision had been  
made for regulatory  and compliance  reasons. Azimo  said it couldnt  verify Hs account due to 
discrepancies. And it said that the account  had been  created in the name of Ms M but was 
being used by Mr S.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Azimos response  and brought his complaint to this service. He says 
that Azimo has defamed him. He wants it to apologise and withdraw the allegations  he says 
it made about use of the account. He also wants it to unlock  his personal account and 
reconsider opening an account in the name  of H.
Our investigator thought that Azimo  had acted fairly and didnt ask it to do anything. But Mr S 
didnt agree and asked  for the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  here is that its right for Azimo to have procedures in place to assess  
applications for new accounts. As to exactly what those procedures  are and how they are 
carried out, that is a matter for Azimo to decide. Deciding which  customers  it wants to do 
business with is also a commercial decision for Azimo. What  I need to decide  here is 
whether Azimo followed its procedures correctly and applied  them  fairly.
Before opening  an account in the name  of H, Azimo asked several questions.  These related 
to Hs activities and the way it intended  to use the Azimo account. I think the information 
Azimo requested and the questions it asked were  reasonable. And Im satisfied that Azimo  
was following its usual  procedure by asking for this information.
Ref: DRN95461762Mr S provided the documents Azimo had asked for and some  details about H. But he said he 
wasnt able to answer some of the questions. For example, he said he couldnt say which  
countries H would operate in or how much money  he would want to transfer each  month. He 
said that H was a new organisation which was only just starting up and that he couldnt see 
into the future. He said the questions  asked by Azimo were meaningless and he couldnt see 
why it was necessary  for him to answer  them in order  to open an account.
In addition to this, Azimo says that it was clearly  Mr S who was using Hs account  profile,  
even though it had been set up using Ms Ms credentials. Azimo  appears to have viewed this 
as a discrepancy. From what  Ive seen, I dont think this issue alone necessarily points to 
any irregularity. I understand that the email address supplied  for Hs account was an info@ 
address. So I find it reasonable that the address may have been intended for use by more 
than one person,  as Mr S says. But, when viewed  in combination with the fact that Mr S 
didnt answer all Azimos questions to its satisfaction, I think  it was reasonable for Azimo to 
decline Mr Ss request to open the account.   
That approach is in line with Azimos terms and conditions which  say that, when registering,  
customers must supply all information and documentation which Azimo asks for in order  to 
process transfers and comply with legal requirements. The terms also allow Azimo to refuse  
to perform the Services (use of its website and mobile phone  application  in order to transfer  
money) if a customer provides false, incorrect or incomplete information. Azimo  may also 
refuse if a Compliance Officer has made a discretionary decision to do so. Because Mr S 
hadnt provided all the information  Azimo asked for, I think  its decision not to open the 
account was reasonable.  
Ill now look at the decision to close Mr Ss existing account. When  Mr S became a customer 
of Azimo, and through his ongoing use of its service, he agreed to be bound by its terms and 
conditions. They allow it to terminate  or suspend his access to the Service without prior 
notice if (amongst other things) a Compliance Officer has made a discretionary decision to 
do so. In light of all the information  available  to me, I dont think the decision to close  Mr Ss 
account was unreasonable. And Azimo  was entitled to do so under its terms and conditions.
So I dont  think Azimo  acted incorrectly or unfairly  here and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
The allegation of defamation isnt something Im able to look at under the rules of this 
service. So I cant make a decision about  that.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9546176