K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC reported inaccurate information  to the credit 
reference agencies.
background
Mr M has a credit  card with Barclays. After  Mr M was made redundant he wasnt able to 
make all of his payments  on time. Barclays agreed  to put Mr Ms account  on hold in 2018.
Mr M says that Barclays didnt tell him that putting  his account on hold would  affect his credit 
file. Mr M wants Barclays to remove the late payment markers on his credit file for April, May 
and June 2018.
Mr M says that there shouldnt be a late payment entry on his credit file for July as his 
payment was on time. Mr M wants Barclays to remove  this entry.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint  be upheld. He said that Mr M didnt 
make full payments  for March, April,  May and June  2018 so he would expect to see four late 
payment markers  on Mr Ms credit file.
The adjudicator was satisfied that Barclays had reported accurate information to the credit  
reference agencies.
The adjudicator thought  it likely that Barclays had made Mr M aware of the impact that the 
hold on his account would have on his credit file.
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation.  Mr M says he only missed  three  
payments. Mr M says that he made  the March 2018 payment on time.
Mr M says that Barclays didnt make him aware each time that he would have a mark on his 
credit file. Mr M says he was having  problems with the re-direction of his post around the 
time.
Mr M says that his credit reports show  a strike  for July 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
adjudicators recommendation.
In cases like this, where  the evidence is inconclusive,  I reach  my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. That means  Ill look at all the available evidence and decide  what  I think is most 
likely to have happened.
late payment markers  April, May and June
After Mr M struggled to keep  up with his repayments, Barclays agreed  to put his account on 
hold for a few months. Mr M is unhappy  that Barclays has recorded  late payments on his 
credit file. He says that Barclays  didnt tell him that it would do this.
Ref: DRN91850732Ive listened to a recording  of a call that took place  in May 2018 between  Barclays and Mr M 
when he asked to extend the hold on his account.  Mr M explains that he had only recently 
got a new job and doesnt have  enough money  to afford his minimum repayment that month. 
Towards the end of the call, Barclays explains to Mr M that as hes unable to make  his 
contractual minimum payment it will register a missed  payment mark on his credit  file. The 
member of staff says that this can impact Mr Ms ability  to obtain future credit for up to six 
years.
If Mr M had been surprised by what Barclays told him when  he asked to extend the hold 
because it hadnt  mentioned it previously  then I wouldve reasonably expected  Mr M to query 
Barclays explanation  during the call. Instead, Mr M confirms to the call handler that hes 
happy to proceed  on the basis that she has explained to him.
Although I dont have  recordings  of the other discussion that Mr M had with Barclays,  Ive 
had a look at the notes  on Mr Ms account. It appears that Mr M spoke to Barclays  at the end 
of April 2018. Mr M explains  that hed previously  been made redundant and would  start 
making payments  once  he was paid by his new employer.  
The notes indicate  that Barclays referred  to CRA and next step.  CRA is a common  
abbreviation for credit reference agencies.  So I think that its more likely than not that 
Barclays explained to Mr M that it would  report  the late payment  to the credit reference 
agencies.
I also take account of the fact that Barclays wrote to Mr M at the end of April 2018 and then 
again in May 2018 to explain that it would still need  to update  the credit reference  agencies 
to say that Mr M wasnt making his minimum payments. 
As far as I can see, Barclays sent the above letters  to Mr M using  the address that he has 
given to this service. Although Mr M says he was having  problems  with his post, this didnt 
form part of his complaint to this service.
Overall, I cant reasonably find that Barclays didnt make Mr M aware what would happen to 
his credit file when his account was placed  on hold.  It follows  that I dont require Barclays to 
remove the late payment  markers for April to June 2018.
July late payment marker 
I appreciate that Mr M says there  is a strike  on his credit  file for July 2018. Barclays says that 
it reported Mr Ms account as being  up to date for July 2018. Barclays has given us evidence  
to support this. 
Im satisfied that Barclays has tried to get to the bottom of why Mr M is seeing a late 
payment marker  for July 2018. Barclays wrote to the two main  credit reference agencies.  
Both have  confirmed that they have recorded the status of Mr Ms account  for July 2018 as 
being up to date.
Ive had a look at the screenshots  that Mr M has sent us of his credit  file from Experian. It 
shows the following  late payment markers: -1, -2, -3 and -3. As far as Im aware these 
markers relate to March,  April, May and June 2018. The entry  for July 2018 is marked with a 
green tick. And the outstanding balance on Mr Ms account has been reduced by the 
payment that he made to Barclays towards  the end of June  2018  for just under £746.
Ref: DRN91850733If Mr M remains concern about  his credit file I suggest that he contacts the relevant  credit 
reference agency or the provider of any app he uses to view his credit report, as I cant  
reasonably require Barclays to do more than it already has.
March 2018 late payment  marker
Mr M says that there is a fourth  late payment mark on his credit file when his account was 
only on hold for three not four months.
Barclays has given us evidence to show that Mr M didnt make his March  2018 payment. 
Although Mr Ms account wasnt on hold at this time, I cant  say that Barclays was wrong  to 
report the missed payment to the credit  reference  agencies. 
Ive also listened  to part of a call that Mr M had with Barclays when he explained that hed 
lost his credit card.  Towards the end of the call Barclays  tells Mr M that as he hasnt made 
the payment due in March, it has placed a restriction on his account. Barclays  says that due 
to this restriction it doesnt have the option  but then the call cuts out. I cant  be sure what 
else Barclays said to Mr M. But Im satisfied that Barclays did make  Mr M aware that it hadnt 
received a payment in March. 
As its an accurate  reflection of how the account  was managed, I dont require  Barclays to 
remove the March  late payment  entry  from Mr Ms credit  file.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9185073