K821x#15complaint
Mr M on behalf of Mrs M complains that a car she acquired with the assistance of finance 
from FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo is not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mrs M entered in to an agreement with MotoNovo to finance  the purchase  of a used car on 
12 March 2018  for £8,086.67. Within days of getting the car Mrs M says she raised concerns 
with the supplying dealership that the car wasnt working correctly and there were issues  
with the engine management  light and fan. Mrs M said that the dealership  did not respond to 
her requests  to have  the car looked at and eventually  stopped  responding to her.
The car broke down  and Mrs M arranged to have an injector replaced in November 2018. 
Following the repair  the mechanic said that there  was a further  fault and Mrs M should  return  
to the supplier. Mrs M raised  a complaint  with MotoNovo that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality. MotoNovo said that because of the time that she had been driving the car Mrs M 
needed to obtain evidence that faults  were  present at the point of sale.  
Mrs M obtained  a report from an independent  inspector.  The report  concluded that there was 
a fault with the car that was likely to have been developing at the point of sale but that as the 
car had been  driven in that condition the cost of repairs  may have now increased. MotoNovo 
said that the evidence provided  by Mrs M showed  there had been  an unauthorised repair 
and so it couldnt say that the faults were there or developing at the point of sale. So Mrs M 
brought her complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator considered Mrs Ms complaint and thought  it should  be upheld.  He thought 
that Mrs M has provided enough  evidence that she asked the dealership to look at the faults  
with the car and that there  were issues with the car very soon after the point of sale.  He 
thought that the independent inspection  supported  this view.  Our adjudicator  considered that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and Mrs M was entitled to reject the 
car and have the return of all money  paid since the failure in November 2018. He also 
thought MotoNovo should pay Mrs M £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the adjudicators  view and responded to say the independent 
report was contradictory  and didnt properly establish that the fault was there  at the point of 
sale. MotoNovo said that the unauthorised repair may have caused  damage to the engine.
 
MotoNovo asked for the matter  to be passed  to an ombudsman  to decide. This is the final 
stage in our process.
      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
At the outset, I would like to apologise to Mrs M for the time taken for her complaint to reach  
me. I can see that this complaint has had a significant effect on Mrs M and her family and 
she has been without  the car, that she has been paying for, since  November 2018.
Ref: DRN92837482Mrs M wants  to now reject  the car pursuant to the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
MotoNovo says that the car should  not be rejected because it has had unauthorised  repairs.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed an 
opportunity to repair the car.
 
I note that the fault with the engine management  light first presented  a few days  after Mrs M 
had the car. Mrs M says she contacted the dealership on a number of occasions  and was 
either told not to worry or action was promised  and nothing happened. The dealership told 
MotoNovo that it hadnt heard from Mrs M. I have seen Mr and Mrs Ms telephone records  
and Mrs M has provided details of an individual that accompanied her to the dealership to 
raise these issues in person. I think it is likely  that Mrs M did have  problems with the car and 
tried to contact the dealership about them. The repeated nature of the calls suggests that 
Mrs M wasnt making any progress when she reported the problems.
The car eventually  broke  down  in November 2018.  Mrs M made  arrangements for repairs  as 
she was without a car. The mechanic who repaired the car replaced  the injector but after 
doing so stated that this had not resolved  the problem and there was a further fault.
The independent inspection concluded  that the problem was likely to be developing at the 
point of supply.  The repair was noted by the engineer who carried out the inspection  but it 
was not in any way suggested that this repair  contributed  to the current fault or was the 
cause of the problem. There is nothing in the independent report to suggest  that the repair 
was of poor quality  or caused any damage. I think that Mrs M should  have the cost of this 
repair reimbursed as it was reasonable in the circumstances. It is not Mrs Ms fault that this 
did not fix the issues.  
The responsibility is on MotoNovo as the supplier of the car to show  that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when Mrs M bought it. I would not expect a car to develop a significant 
fault of this nature with the engine which prevented Mrs M driving  it after such  a short  time. 
Mrs M was able to cover  around  5,000 miles before the car failed completely. I consider that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I agree with the engineer who 
completed the report that the fault with the engine  was there  or developing at the point of 
sale. 
Had the dealership repaired the car when  Mrs M raised the issue then I think it is likely that it 
may not have failed  completely. The dealership was given a chance to fix the problems with 
the car and it failed  to do so. I dont think it was wrong of Mrs M to continue to drive  the car 
in these circumstances. I dont think it is reasonable to expect her to do more than she did. I 
think it is reasonable for Mrs M to reject the car. I do not agree with MotoNovo on the basis 
of the evidence I have seen that the car was of satisfactory quality or that the repair  that Mrs 
M arranged has in any way contributed to the problem.  
Mrs M has had to pay for the independent  inspections and I note that MotoNovo indicated  it 
would refund up to £200. Mrs M has paid £216 for this and so I think  it is only fair that she 
gets it back. MotoNovo has been  asked  for its comments about this after the matter has 
been passed to me and it agrees that as the report is in Mrs Ms favour she should  be 
reimbursed.
Ref: DRN92837483Mrs M was advised not to drive the car following the repair and she has not driven it since 
November 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right FirstRand  Bank  Limited 
should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs M;
Refund all monthly payments from 2 November 2018 to reflect the period that Mrs M 
has been without  a car;
Pay Mrs M £216.00 for the engineers  report;
Pay Mrs M the cost of replacing  the injector;
Refund any deposit paid by Mrs M together with 8% simple interest from the date 
paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mrs Ms credit  file; and
Pay Mrs M £250 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9283748