K820x#14Complaint
Ms R complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about an instalment loan Cashfloat  provided  to you in April 2015. The loan 
was for £200  and was due to be in two instalments of £136.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint as she didnt think  Cashfloat unfairly lent to 
Ms R. Ms R disagreed and so the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
I should start by saying  Ive noted  Cashfloats  comments that Ms Rs complaint is frivolous.  
I dont accept that Ms Rs complaint is frivolous for the reasons Cashfloat has given. 
Cashfloat considers  parts  of Ms Rs complaint to be inaccurate. But this doesnt  mean  she 
cant have a legitimate  underlying complaint about Cashfloats decision to lend to her. Im 
satisfied its appropriate  for me to consider the merits of her case.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out reasonable checks to understand 
whether Ms R could  repay her loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. 
Cashfloat says before it agreed to lend,  it searched  Ms Rs credit  file. It hasnt provided 
detailed results of its search but has said there  were  no adverse entries like defaults or 
county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on her file. Ms R hasnt provided a copy of her file 
so I cant say whether  or not there  were adverse entries recorded.
Cashfloat has provided evidence to show that it asked Ms R about her monthly income and 
living expenses. Ms Rs income  was declared  as £1,945 and her expenses including credit  
commitments, housing, utility and travel was a total of £1,385.
 
Ref: DRN91153952This was Ms Rs first loan with Cashfloat  and as stated above, it would generally be 
reasonable for less thorough checks to be carried out in the early stages. At this stage in the 
lending relationship, I wouldnt have expected Cashfloat to carry out detailed checks  before 
agreeing to lend.  Ms R didnt have a lending  history with Cashfloat and I havent seen 
anything within the checks carried out that should  have prompted  Cashfloat to take its 
checks further.
Ms Rs loan was for £200 to be repaid in two instalments of £136. Taking into account the 
declared information about Ms Rs income  and living costs, it was reasonable for Cashfloat 
to think she was in a position to afford  the loan.
Ms R has said she was dependent  on short term loans and that she had eight other short  
term loans. But given  the circumstances of this loan, this isnt information  that I would have 
expected Cashfloat to be have been aware  from what I consider to be proportionate checks. 
At this stage, Cashfloat could rely on the information  Ms R provided.
I understand that the information  available to Cashfloat about Ms R circumstances may now 
not have been a true reflection of her financial position but Ms R chose to provide that 
information for the purpose of obtaining  a loan and I think Cashfloat reasonably relied on the 
information.
I dont think Cashfloat  was irresponsible to lend Ms R the loan in these  circumstances.
In its final response letter,  Cashfloat stated that there was a balance outstanding  on the loan 
and offered to waive the interest  on it. Cashfloat has told this service  that its offer still stands 
and should Ms R wish to accept the offer then she should contact Cashfloat directly.  Id also 
remind Cashfloat to deal with Ms R positively and sympathetically, working with her to come 
to a payment  plan for the balance outstanding.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint or make an award  against  
Western Circle Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.  
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9115395