K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs A says that she didnt  remember taking  out PPI with this credit card.  She says that if she 
did, she wouldve made a claim on the policy when she was made  redundant. BoS has 
provided a copy of Mrs Ls credit card application. On this I can see that the PPI is presented 
as an optional product,  and Mrs L has signed to select it. This is separate to her signature for 
the card itself. So I think BoS made  it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this as it was so 
long ago.
I dont know why Mrs A didnt make a claim on this credit card when she was made 
redundant  but as Ive explained above, I think at the time she made her application she 
was aware of the PPI. She may wish to contact BoS about the possibility  of making a 
backdated claim. 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said - including what shes said about  the policy only 
paying out 10% of her balance in the event of making a claim. But this wouldve been  paid 
every month, for up to 12 months  per claim if shes needed to make  a claim. So this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs L paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs L back some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mrs L.
Ref: DRN93403782my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9340378