K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 to 
protect a mortgage. Miss G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
RBS had to make Miss G aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding it 
to her mortgage. RBS has provided a copy of the paperwork available from the time the 
policy was sold. Miss G completed an application separate from her mortgage to take the 
PPI, and signed in agreement with it. So I think RBS made it clear that Miss G didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and that she chose it  although  I can understand why she may not 
remember this as the sale was from such a long time ago.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss G got the information she needed to decide to make  an 
informed choice. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Miss G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But Miss G chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had of making the 
repayments, which included 6-12 months  sick pay and savings. The PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Miss Gs sick pay and for longer than she would have received full pay. Based 
on what Ive seen of Miss Gs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for     
Miss G if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss G about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell 
Miss G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss G has said  but her points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN99639712RBS has to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Miss G any extra interest they paid 
because of that.
RBS should pay back to Miss G the extra they paid each  month  because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. RBS should also pay Miss G 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss G can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Miss G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9963971