K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that her travel insurance claim was declined by Europaische 
Reiseversicherung AG (ERV).
background
Mrs B was due to travel abroad with a friend  in November 2018. Shortly before,  in October 
2018, Mrs Bs friend received information that his son had a terminal illness  and only had a 
few weeks to live. The doctor advised Mrs Bs friend to cancel his holiday.  In December 
2018 Mrs Bs friends son sadly passed away.
Mrs B and her friend both cancelled their holiday and Mrs B made a claim on her travel 
insurance policy ERV declined Mrs Bs claim as her reason for not travelling wasnt  covered 
by her insurance policy.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She thought ERV had declined  Mrs Bs 
claim in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mrs B disagreed and so her complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know  this isnt the outcome 
Mrs B was hoping for. Ill explain my reasons in more detail below.
Firstly I would like to say that I really sympathise with Mrs Bs situation. Of course her 
travelling partner cancelled the holiday when he received  the sad news  about his son. And I 
understand why Mrs B didnt want to travel  on her own in these circumstances. I think  most 
people would have  done exactly the same.
However, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are entitled to decide  
which risks they want to cover. Ive looked at Mrs Bs policy to see whether ERV applied  
their terms  and conditions  correctly and reasonably in her case.
The section which applies to Mrs Bs claim is Section 1 of her policy which  deals with the 
cancellation of holidays. It explains that ERV will pay for travel and accommodation costs 
which arent used  if you are forced to cancel your trip for reasons that are beyond your 
control and which fall under the reasons stated in the policy. The section then gives six 
cancellation reasons that are covered.
The reason  in the policy that comes closest to Mrs Bs circumstances is:
a)you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during  the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury  or, death.
The policy defines  close relative as the following persons only:
Ref: DRN90737792the person  that you live with, in a relationship for at least  6 months at the same 
address, whether married or cohabiting  (as if husband and wife)  regardless of 
gender;
your children (including fostered or adopted  children), grandchildren, parents, 
grandparents, brothers, sisters, parents-in-law,  sons/daughters in-law and 
brothers/sisters-in-law.
So according to the policy definition, Mrs Bs friends  son wouldnt fall under the category of 
being a close  relative to her. 
Mrs B pointed to the definition for travelling companion  which says:
Travelling companion  A person(s) with whom you have booked to travel on the same  travel 
itinerary, and without  whom your travel plans  would be impossible.
Mrs B says she couldnt have travelled without her travelling companion, so she had no 
choice other  than cancel the trip. But the issue isnt whether Mrs Bs friend was her travelling 
companion or whether she could have  travelled  without him. As I said above I understand 
why she didnt go ahead with the holiday on her own. 
The issue  is that the policy covers unforeseen illness or death of the policy holder, a close 
relative or a travelling  companion,  but no one beyond that. So the terminal  illness  of Mrs Bs 
friends son unfortunately isnt a cancellation  reason  that is covered by the policy.  So based 
on what Ive seen I think ERV declined Mrs Bs claim in line with their terms and conditions.
In her latest  submissions to us Mrs B said her travelling  companion  had several medical  
conditions which were  exacerbated  by the stress of his sons imminent death.  She says 
essentially he was too ill to fly abroad. However, this is different to what  Mrs B has been 
telling the insurer  in her claim form or what she told us when she referred her complaint to 
this service. Mrs B never mentioned that her travelling companion  was too ill to travel.
So I think based on the information ERV was given by Mrs B the claim was declined 
correctly. But if Mrs B can provide  ERV with contemporaneous medical  evidence  that her 
travelling companion was too ill to travel, I expect ERV to consider this new evidence  and 
her claim again in line with their terms and conditions. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9073779