K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in 1995. In 2000,  they took out a PPI policy  to cover  their 
mortgage account. Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium,  which  
didnt attract interest.  It covered Mr P in case he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Neither side have  the original paperwork  from the time, which  is understandable given that 
this sale was around two decades  ago and the accounts involved have long since  closed. 
Indeed, under data protection rules Santander were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ps 
data rather than hold on to it for too long. Mr and Mrs P said they didnt know they had PPI, 
but also that they were told they had to have it. I also think its understandable if they dont 
remember buying it, given  that this sale was particularly  long ago, and that buying insurance 
is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully  about  whats most likely  to have happened 
based on the information I have.
From what  Ive seen of Santanders  sales process at the time, in order  to get PPI Mr and Mrs 
P wouldve had to specifically apply for it, separately  to applying for any lending.  It looks like 
Santander wouldve  made it clear that the PPI was separate  from the lending  and that they 
didnt have to take it out. The insurers records say that it did receive a completed application 
for Mr and Mrs Ps policy, though it doesnt still have the copy  because of all the time thats 
passed. And Mr and Mrs P had already been  approved for their mortgage in 1995  without  
PPI, which  wouldve indicated to them  that they didnt  have to have a policy. Overall, I think  
its most  likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs P aware they had a choice  about  buying the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer 
recall doing so after so long.
Ref: DRN96122712Santander recommended  the PPI for Mr P, so it had to check it was right for him. And based  
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, it looks like 
Mr P was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its key exclusions or limitations. 
While he had sick pay through work, that wasnt relevant here as this policy was for 
unemployment rather than sickness. He doesnt  seem to have had any alternative  cover in 
place, and he only had limited savings, which would not have lasted long if needed to cover 
his income. Its worth  bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs P fell behind on their mortgage, they 
couldve lost their home. It looks like this policy couldve really been  useful for them  in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander  gave Mr and Mrs P about PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I said above, it looks like Mr P wasnt  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs P in 
case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr and Mrs 
P could  cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better information 
was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612271