K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that the terms and conditions  of an ISA offered by A J Bell Securities 
Ltd present the products  charging structure  in a way thats  unclear  and unfair.
Specifically, he says that:
while the terms and conditions state  that all charges will be deducted from your ISA, 
they dont make  it clear  that charges accruing to the account  must be paid from that 
account. Other providers  online platforms allow investors to meet  charges  from 
funds held in other  accounts held on the same platform;
the terms and conditions say that you must always ensure that there is sufficient 
cash held to cover our charges when they are due for payment.  But they dont say 
that sufficient cash  must be held in the ISA to cover charges; only that sufficient cash  
must be held;
consequently, he couldnt utilise the whole of his annual ISA allowance because he 
needed to retain a cash balance,  or disinvest  some  stock  at a dealing charge of 
£9.95, to pay custody charges when they fell due. As such, he was tricked by these  
hidden charges and the platform was mis-sold to him;
when these charges  fell due wasnt clear either. They were  given  as an annual  
charge, but they are levied  at the end of each calendar quarter, with no dates given.
Accordingly, the terms and conditions dont  present  the ISAs charging  structure  in a 
transparent and fair manner. Investors  should  be given a clear  warning to hold cash in their 
ISA (or disinvest some stock)  to meet periodic charges and, in so doing,  that they cannot 
fully utilise  their annual  allowance.    
A J Bell should acknowledge  that it needs  to make its product charges  more clear and, as it 
didnt address in its final response letter all the complaint points he made, consider how it 
might improve the standard of its complaint handling.
background
In February 2017,  Mr B contacted  A J Bell to ask how he could settle a negative cash 
balance on his ISA account, which represented the quarterly custody charges. As his ISA 
was fully invested, he was told he would need to cash-in some assets held in the account to 
fund these charges.  Mr B didnt wish to do this; he asked if he could meet  the charges from 
his dealing account and was told that his ISA terms and conditions  required charges to be 
met from the account on which  they were due.
When Mr B complained that the terms and condition  werent  sufficiently clear  on this matter, 
he decided to transfer his ISA to another manager. In the meantime, A J Bell agreed  to 
reimburse the dealing charge of £9.95  he would otherwise have incurred to pay the quarterly 
charge from his ISA. There  was no charge  for the ISA transfer  as it was processed as a cash  
transaction.
Mr Bs complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who felt it couldnt  be upheld.
On balance, he thought the information provided in the ISA terms and condition  wasnt 
unclear or misleading. In particular,  he said that:
Ref: DRN93029972Mr B opened the account online and he received no advice from A J Bell in choosing  
this investment. Its website recommended him to read the key features and terms 
and conditions of the stocks and shares  ISA to make sure it is right for you. 
the onus was on Mr B to consider  the information he was provided and to raise 
concerns if he was unsure about  any terms and conditions when he applied for the 
investment;
other providers did allow payment of charges from other accounts on the same  
platform. But A J Bell didnt offer this facility and its terms and conditions confirmed 
that;
he did agree with Mr B that, as he needed  to make cash  provision within  the ISA to 
pay its charges, he couldnt  utilise the whole of his annual allowance;
but our service couldnt  intervene in the operation of A J Bells online  investment 
platform, as long as the terms and conditions of the account  had been made clear to 
Mr B;
the charges  section  state: All charges are taken  from the ISA and that: You must 
always ensure that there is sufficient cash held to cover our charges when they are 
due for payment.
although the terms of the ISA dont specifically state  that charges couldnt  be paid 
from another account, they do confirm that charges would be taken  from the ISA 
account and theres no evidence  Mr B questioned this at outset;
the charges  and rates brochure doesnt explicitly state when charges fall due other 
than they will normally be collected  within 20 business days  of the quarter end. As 
charges were taken  on a business  day, it wouldnt be possible to quote a specific  
date. That wasnt possible to quote  specific dates didnt make it unclear when the 
charges would apply;
Mr B wasnt obliged  to hold a cash within his stocks and shares ISA  he could sell 
holdings, if necessary, to fund charges,  albeit  this would incur him a dealing charge 
of £9.95; 
Mr Bs previous occupation  ought to have  provided him sufficient  acumen  to 
understand all the information and to question it if he needed clarification.
In response, Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and said that:
its taken 19 months  to obtain  a view from our service and it wasnt  apparent why the 
issues considered  by the adjudicator  had taken so long to address as they dont 
appear to be complex;
he didnt appreciate the relevance of his former  occupation. The clarity of the terms 
and condition should be judged against the capability  of a layperson  to understand 
them;
it seems the adjudicators view is that investment platforms offering services  on a no-
advice financial organisations which offer an advisory service;
he didnt agree that reference to a calendar  quarter is clear and transparent;
A J Bells final decision letter wasnt a fair response to his complaint and it wasnt 
until it was notified that hed referred  the complaint  to our service that it addressed 
his specific points.  He wanted to know if typically it failed to respond to complaints 
seriously until they are referred to us;
he expected  the adjudicator to acknowledge that improvements should be made to 
A J Bells  explanation  of its product charges.
The adjudicator replied that:
Ref: DRN93029973he agreed it had taken a long time to reach this stage. But our service was 
considering another issue in respect  of A J Bells operation at that time and there was 
potential for this to impact  on his assessment of Mr Bs complaint. Our service 
decided to place  complaints about A J Bell on hold until the issue was resolved;
all businesses are required to take note of ombudsman decisions and treat any 
issues arising as learning points;
he saw that Mr Bs service complaint had been resolved as a separate  matter  and it 
wasnt necessary to addressed this again;
in referring to Mr Bs previous occupation, the adjudicator  wasnt  suggesting that he 
ought naturally  to have understood the information  that came  with the investment. He 
needed to consider  the likelihood that Mr Bs background would prompt  him to review 
carefully all documentation he received  that related  to the product hed bought;
with regard to the clarity of the documentation, there ought to be no difference  in the 
way the terms and conditions were presented  to him whether he used an execution-
only service or took advice. 
if Mr B had received  advice to invest in the ISA, the adviser  would have been  
required to ensure that his or her recommendation was suitable  for him. But, given 
Mr B applied  for the ISA direct, A J Bells responsibility was to present the nature and 
terms of this product  to him in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading so he 
could make a fully informed decision. In his view, the terms and conditions of the ISA 
were clearly  set out to Mr B;
it wasnt the adjudicators role to address each and every  point made  by Mr B if they 
dont materially affect the outcome of his complaint;
a business  may undertake an ongoing  correspondence with a complainant  following 
its final decision letter if, in response  to the consumers reaction, it still feels it can 
resolve the complaint.
However, as no agreement has been reached,  the complaint has been referred to me for 
review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator explained,  the role of our service is to consider the issues  raised by Mr B 
that materially decide the outcome of the complaint hes made. Its not my role to address 
each and every complaint  point Mr B has made if theyre peripheral  to his main concern that 
the terms and conditions of A J Bells online ISA account failed  to be clear, fair and not 
misleading with regard  to when account charges were due and how theyre  meant to be 
funded.
     
While Ive noted Mr Bs dissatisfaction also with the adequacy of A J Bells final response to 
his complaint, I review  the complaint hes made  rather than the merits of A J Bells  response 
to it. A J Bells  complaint handling process  would be a matter  for it to monitor,  and for the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority,  to review in its periodic audits.
Im also aware that Mr B raised  concern at the time we had taken to consider his complaint. I 
understand this matter  has been  resolved separately by one of my colleagues and its not 
necessary for me to address this issue.
Ref: DRN93029974I have reviewed the terms and conditions of A J Bells Youinvest platform  that were  in force 
when he opened  an ISA online in November 2016.
As A J Bell offered this platform on a no-advice  basis and, therefore, wouldnt know 
applicants level of financial  sophistication or understanding, it was essential that its terms 
and conditions were  presented  in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading  so that 
prospective investors could make  a fully informed decision to use its service. 
In section 8.2 of its terms and conditions headed:  Charges and deduction of cash  from your 
account , Mr B is advised  that You agree to pay us and authorise us to deduct charges and 
any third party charges from your account as they become due.
Section 8.8.1 also states that A J Bell may deduct  cash from, and/or sell any of the 
investments in your account to realise cash, where  we are owed money from your account 
(including charges  or third party charges which we have been  unable or have omitted to 
deduct from your account) .     
The accompanying ISA charges and rates brochure  states that All charges will be deducted  
from your ISA and that You must  always ensure that there is sufficient cash held to cover  
our charges  when they are due for payment.
I do understand Mr Bs point that, if he fully utilises his annual ISA allowance in stocks  and 
shares, he loses potential  investment  gains on part of his total fund that needed to be held in 
cash (and potentially  also on a dealing charge of £9.95) to meet quarterly custody charges.    
But, having  considered in the round all the terms and conditions  relating to funding  of 
charges, Im satisfied that investors holding an ISA on A J Bells  platform would understand 
that they needed to retain an element of cash, or be prepared to disinvest stock  as cash, 
within their investment to meet periodic  charges.  Whether  or not these terms and conditions  
are competitive and/or were not in line with those  offered by other providers was a question  
for Mr B to have considered in November 2016  and I think  the information  found on A J 
Bells website fairly enabled him to make  that comparison.      
When custody charges fall due is set out in the ISA charges  and rates summary. My 
reading of these terms is that the charge for shares and funds is an annual  charge, levied at 
the end of each calendar quarter, but calculated monthly based on the mid-price  value  of 
shares on the last working day of each month in the calendar quarter. The charges will 
normally be collected within 20 business  days of the quarter end. 
As a calendar year is typically 1 January to 31 December inclusive, investor  could 
reasonably conclude that a calendar  quarter  would end on 31 March, 30 June, 
30 September and 31 December.  
So, given the charges  and rates summary states  that these charges and rates are effective 
from 1 October 2016,  Im satisfied that Mr B could  have expected the first custody charges 
to be collected  from his ISA within 20 business days of 31 December  2016.
I appreciate that Mr B has provided a suggested form of words  the ISA terms and conditions 
could have adopted to eliminate any possible ambiguity  over the timing  and funding of 
charges. 
Ref: DRN93029975But, on balance, I think the terms and conditions in October 2016, when read as a whole, 
were sufficiently clear for Mr B to have known  when he applied  for the ISA how charges 
were funded and when  they became payable. I, therefore, dont think  he was tricked  into 
using the online platform offered by A J Bell.
I do note that A J Bell has taken account  of feedback from clients  and has since  updated  its 
terms from January 2019 to allow investors to pay for charges levied on their ISA accounts 
from funds held in other  accounts on the same  platform. That is not an admission that the 
previous terms and conditions were  unclear  or misleading.
decision
Notwithstanding this, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9302997