K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that due to errors on IG Markets Limiteds system, his Contract  for 
Differences (CFD) was closed later than it shouldve been  and he missed out on additional  
profit. 
background
Mr H had a CFD account. On 5 February  2018,  he had open short positions on IGs 
Germany 30 product which is based on the German stock market. Between 8pm and 
8.13pm Mr H tried to close these positions. IGs trade history shows:
8:13:40 an attempt to part close his position at 12286.2 (0.04 contracts) rejected due 
to an error that said instrument price not found.
8:13:41 an attempt to part close his position at 12299.7 (0.04 contracts) rejected due 
to an error that said instrument price not found.
8:13:51 an attempt to fully close his position at 12304.2 (1 contract) rejected due to 
the price changing  between  the moment the order was placed and execution. 
8:14:20 a final attempt to fully close the position  at 12287.7 (1 contract) accepted  by 
IGs platform and executed. 
Mr H explains  that the above record on IGs system isnt complete. He says that he tried to 
close the positions at 8.11pm, when Germany 30 was around 12200. He this wouldve given 
him a €7,000 profit. Although he says he did place the order to close, this order didnt show  
up on IGs system.  Shortly  after this, the price  changed and his possible profit  reduced  to 
€6,000. He tried to close his open trades again, but this time IGs system rejected the order.  
In addition, IGs system recorded Mr Hs failed  trades to be for 0.04 contracts, not 1 contract. 
Finally, Mr H managed to close his position at around 8.14pm, when the Germany 30 price  
was 12287.7.  Mr H eventually made  a profit of just over €4,000.  
Mr H complained. IG considered his complaint,  but didnt uphold it. It said that the only error 
he experienced were  for the two attempts at closing 0.04 contracts. It acknowledged that it 
was experiencing a system error very briefly  during that time which  caused it to reject some 
trades. It said that it was happy to credit  him with the price he wouldve received  had he 
been able to close 0.04 contracts  at the time.  However, it didnt  consider  it was responsible 
for compensating him for the full amount of lost profit for which Mr H was claiming.  
Mr H didnt agree. One of our investigators looked  into his complaint, and didnt think  IG did 
anything wrong. In summary,  she considered  there was insufficient evidence  to say that Mr 
H had previously attempted to close his contract at around 8.11pm. And she thought that IG 
had provided persuasive evidence  that Mr H had tried to close 0.04 contracts, not a full 
contract, at 8.13pm.  As agreement couldnt be reached the case  was passed to me to 
consider. 
I wrote  to both parties and explained my provisional conclusions. I considered that there  was 
insufficient evidence  to ask IG to pay out on a trade it had no record  of. So I didnt consider I 
could look at a loss of profit from the Germany 30 price  at 8.11pm, because there was 
insufficient evidence  to show that Mr H had tried to place an order  at that time. 
However, I thought  that the two attempts at part closing his trade at 8.13pm were  
inconsistent with Mr Hs overall trading pattern  throughout  the day. I thought  that given the 
issues IG had been experiencing  at the time,  and Mr Hs persuasive  testimony  around  these  
Ref: DRN93508152two trades, it was more  likely than not that an issue outside Mr Hs control had caused the 
trades to be placed  incorrectly   or be incorrectly received by IGs platform. So I thought  that 
where IGs platform recorded two attempts to close 0.04 contracts,  that was in fact Mr H 
attempting to close 1 contract. I therefore considered  that Mr H should be compensated for 
the difference in price between he price  he wouldve received at 8:13:40pm and the price  he 
eventually received. 
IG disagreed. It said that while it was experiencing technical issues,  these were  purely  due 
to trade  attempts being rejected. It said that IG didnt experience any issues  with trade sizes  
simply changing, and it had no evidence that this happened to any other  user. So it 
confirmed the orders that were  received  were  for 0.04 contracts, not 1.
It said there was a one second period between the two attempts of 0.04 contracts, and then 
a 10 second period until the final attempt to close one contract. This suggested Mr H had 
plenty of time to edit the instruction.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that given that I had accepted the error on IGs platform, I should  
also accept his evidence  that he tried to place an order at 8.11pm but this wasnt showing on 
IGs record of trades. He said it was unfair that he should be penalised  for this, and he 
claimed that the compensation should  be calculated based on the difference  in price from 
8.11pm. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to change my provisional findings. 
As I explained to both parties, I think this case is finely balanced. But when considering the 
evidence as a whole, including Mr Hs testimony, Im persuaded that Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld.  
I accept that IG hasnt found  evidence of other users experiencing an issue  with the size of 
the orders they placed, but I dont think that necessarily means Mr H didnt experience such 
an issue. Im satisfied,  on balance, that Mr Hs intended to fully close  his contract when the 
first of his 0.04 trades  failed to go through. And Im satisfied on balance  that he was 
prevented from doing so by something outside his control, most likely an error on the 
platform itself. In those circumstances, I dont think its fair that he should have to financially 
bear the cost of that. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account  Mr Hs testimony (as well as evidence  
provided by the software developer) that the software he uses doesnt allow  part closure of 
trades. Ive also taken into account his pattern of trading throughout the day, as well as the 
trades Mr H eventually placed. 
IG has pointed out, fairly I think,  that it isnt uncommon for traders to attempt to part close 
positions at time of significant volatility. I dont dispute this. But in Mr Hs case, Im not 
persuaded thats a likely explanation for those two orders. I say this because the price  Mr H 
was trying to achieve was very profitable for him. If he was trying  to benefit from this price 
without fully closing  his position, in the expectation  that the price  might  increase further, then 
attempting to close 0.04 contracts appears to me to be far too small a trade  to be of any 
financial benefit to him. 
Ref: DRN93508153I say this bearing in mind  that he attempted to close the trade twice, then a third time for one 
contract (when this was also rejected  by IGs system) and a fourth time when the trade was 
accepted. 
Ive considered Mr Hs comments  I appreciate he feels very strongly that he should  be 
given the benefit of the doubt. I should  accept his evidence that he tried to close his trade 
earlier than 8:13pm, when the Germany 30 price was around 12200. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H, but having  given his comments  further thought, Im not 
persuaded that this would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve  his complaint. Theres  no 
record of a trade placed around the time he suggests. And without such a record,  Im not 
satisfied I it would be fair and reasonable to make a finding of fact that he attempted  to place 
a trade  but IG made a mistake in not registering it. It would also be very difficult to put things 
right for him in a way which wouldnt unfairly penalise  IG. 
putting things  right
 
IG should compare  the price  it eventually gave Mr H when it closed his position  at 8:14:20 
with the price he wouldve received if it had closed his position  at 8:13:40. If Mr H wouldve 
made a higher profit by closing his trade earlier, IG should pay this to Mr H and 8% simple 
interest on that amount from the moment  the profit wouldve been paid to him until the date 
of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. IG Markets Limited must pay the 
compensation Ive outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9350815