K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) decision  to close  his account. 
background
Mr D was buying a house and had to transfer a large sum of money. He tried to do an online 
transaction, but this didnt work as there was a block on his account. When he called the 
bank they told him to take his identification  into branch. 
When he did this, Lloyds  IT system  wasnt working properly. Mr D was frustrated by this. There  
is a dispute as to how Mr D behaved  at this point. Lloyds say that he was intimidating and 
threatening to the staff. Mr D says he wasnt, although he does accept  that there were raised 
voices. Mr D left after the police arrived (he said that he had asked for them to be called).  
Mr D went to a different branch on another day and successfully completed the transfer. 
Our investigator found Lloyds didnt do anything wrong. They thought  that the terms and 
conditions of the account were clear, and that Lloyds were entitled  to close the account. 
Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to decide.    
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether Lloyds acted fairly in closing Mr Ds account. I think  
they did and Ill explain why. 
 
Just as a customer can decide  who they bank with, Lloyds can decide  that it doesnt  want  to 
carry on offering its accounts to a customer.  The terms and conditions here explain that 
Lloyds can close the account if they reasonably  thought that Mr D was (or may have been) 
being threatening or abusive.  
Lloyds dont have  to give a reason why they closed the account, but they have done  here.  
There is a dispute  as to what  happened  in the bank.  Mr D feels strongly that Lloyds version 
of events isnt accurate.  But Lloyds feel that their version is clear  and backed up by records. 
In that sort of a situation, it is hard for me to know what  happened as I wasnt  present and I 
have to rely on the submissions of both sides. Having done so, I think that its clear that Mr D 
became frustrated with the situation  when  he went  into the branch.  Lloyds  felt that his 
behaviour was unacceptable. 
I have to bear in mind  that closing Mr Ds account is a decision Lloyds  were  entitled to make. 
Lloyds records show that they told Mr D that theyd  be doing this and gave him a fair period 
of time to make alternative arrangements  in line with the terms and conditions.  
And I see that Mr D doesnt want to carry on banking  with Lloyds, so I dont think that itd be 
fair for me to tell Lloyds  to reopen his account.  
Ref: DRN94044642Lloyds have credited  Mr Ds account with £93 for the inconvenience, which I think is fair. 
I think that Mr D wants me to tell Lloyds  to admit that theyve  lied. But thats  not my role here. 
Lloyds doesnt  think that theyve lied, and this service doesnt  have the same  powers  as a 
Court to cross-examine either  party. Instead, were a quick  and informal service, and Im 
here to look at whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  For the reasons Ive given 
above, I dont  think I can tell Lloyds to do any more  here. 
I know that Mr D will be disappointed by this, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9404464