K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that she wasnt  able to receive security  text messages to her mobile  phone  
to allow  her to make  payments from her account  using The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plcs 
(RBSs) telephone  banking service.
To settle  matters shed  like RBS to amend its procedures  and restore  her to the position  she 
was previously in.
background
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr H. Mrs H told us that RBS must 
send a security text message to her mobile  phone to allow her to make  payments using 
RBSs telephone banking. She says shes not been  able to receive these for many years 
even though RBS has her correct mobile number.  Shes complained about this over the 
years, but says its never  been fixed.
Mrs H has managed to make payments without receiving the security text message by 
answering security questions instead. But she says that since  RBS changed its telephone 
banking procedures since approximately September  2018 shes not been able to use 
telephone banking to make payments. She feels shes had no choice other than to move  her 
accounts elsewhere. She thinks  RBS didnt take her issue seriously  and didnt do enough  to 
fix the problem.
RBS issued its final response letter in September 2018 and said the issue  had been caused  
by a coding error. It agreed to pay her £100 compensation and said it would also reimburse  
her costs upon production of invoices.
Mrs H doesnt think the amount  of compensation is fair because since closing her RBS 
accounts this has caused her lots of problems. Our investigator explained to Mrs H that 
these issues were  being investigated as part of a different complaint.
Unhappy with RBSs  response,  Mrs H referred her complaint  to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think RBS got things right. She noted that Mrs H had raised multiple complaints with 
RBS about the issue  and thought it should  have made more  effort  to fix the problem.
Our investigator noted that Mrs H was able to access telephone banking  by answering 
security questions and shed closed her accounts almost immediately after she was no 
longer able to access telephone banking, so our investigator thought RBSs offer of £100  
was a fair reflection of the overall impact  the issue had caused.
Mrs H disagrees  with the investigators view. She says the problem has been on-going for 
many years and she doesnt  think the award  reflects the inconvenience this has caused her. 
She says the problem  prevented her using the account in the way it was meant to be used 
and caused longer call charges and irritation over a long period.  So shes  asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95321522Although RBS agreed in its final response  letter dated September  2018 that a coding error 
had caused the problem  with the security  text messages, Ive looked carefully at the 
information provided by RBS and its not clear  that RBS made any error here.  RBSs  notes 
show it didnt find any evidence of any error  on its part. However, it gave Mrs H the benefit of 
the doubt that it had made an error and so it offered her compensation which  I think  broadly 
covers the inconvenience caused  to her.
I realise that the final response letter left Mrs H under the (incorrect) impression that the 
problem was due to a coding error  on RBSs part but, as I explained above, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the problems Mrs H experienced were due to a coding error on 
RBSs part.
I think the £100 compensation offered by RBS is fair and reasonable based  on the overall 
impact this had on Mrs H. I say this because Mrs H told us she was able to work  around the 
problem by answering security questions instead  and this meant  she was able to use her 
account to make payments.
Ive considered Mrs Hs point that the workaround led to longer phone  calls with RBS.  I dont 
think this significantly impacted on her because she wasnt  registered  for online banking so I 
think she would have  needed to call RBS in any event to make use of telephone banking and 
to avoid a trip to a branch.
Mrs H later found out she couldnt  access telephone  banking  after RBS made  further 
changes to is security procedures. I sympathise with the position Mrs H found herself in but 
RBS is entitled  to make business decisions of this sort and our service doesnt have any 
power to tell a financial businesses  to change its systems.
I realise that Mrs H lost her only way of accessing  telephone  banking  services and I dont 
doubt this will have  been frustrating for her. Whilst I can understand why Mrs H decided to 
close her RBS accounts it wouldnt be fair for me to say that it should be responsible  for the 
long journey she had to make and for the time it took her to open  new accounts  because 
whilst Im sympathetic to the position  she found herself in I think  this was a decision she 
came to and theres  no suggestion RBS told her to do so.
Mrs H closed her RBS accounts almost immediately  after she found out she wasnt  able to 
access telephone  banking. Im satisfied that by closing her accounts this mitigated the 
impact this had on her because she unable to access  telephone banking only for a very 
short period.
I realise that Mrs H will be disappointed  by my decision but it remains open to her to accept 
RBSs offer of £100 compensation which Id expect it to honour.
Ref: DRN95321523my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9532152