K822xcomplaint
Miss P says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (ECI) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 16 instalment loans which ECI provided to Miss P between  July 2016 
and February 2017. Miss P complained the loans were not affordable or sustainable, so she 
concluded ECI had lent to her irresponsibly. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ps complaint saying loans 4 to 16 were lent 
irresponsibly and were  unsustainable for her. Our adjudicator suggested the following 
redress to be calculated  and paid by ECI as follows:
If you have  sold the outstanding debts you should  buy these back if you are able to do so
and then take the following steps. If you are not able to buy the debts back then you should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) You should add together  the total of the repayments made by Miss P towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not
including anything you have already  refunded.
B) You should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments  made  by
Miss P which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss P
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) You should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss P as though  they had
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding  loans. If this results in Miss P
having made overpayments then you should refund these overpayments with 8% simple
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. You should then refund the amounts calculated
in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss P. However if there is still an outstanding
balance then you should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan with Miss P.
E) You should remove any adverse information  you have recorded on Miss Ps
credit file in relation to 4 and 5. The overall  pattern of Miss Ps borrowing for 6 to 16
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans
entirely from Miss Ps credit file. If you have sold any of the loans you should  ask the
debt purchaser  to do the same. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give Miss 
P a certificate showing how much  tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
ECI agreed  with our adjudicators view and calculated that Miss P borrowed a principle 
amount of £2,600. She had repaid the total amount  of £2,484.43, so ECI said there was no 
redress due as there was still an outstanding balance of £97.88. ECI added  that this 
calculation took into account the additional  8% interest  and the standard 20% tax deduction.  
Our adjudicator told Miss P the calculation was in line with our approach so the offer was 
forwarded to Miss P.
Ref: DRN93115762Miss P disagreed with the suggested  settlement from ECI saying the redress  does not take 
into account the mental health issues she suffered as a result  of the irresponsible lending  
and the complaint was passed  to me to look at that issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I dont need to decide here whether the loans  were made irresponsibly and were  later 
unsustainable for  Miss P because there are no  comments on those aspects of our 
adjudicators view. ECI has accepted  it should  not have made loans 4 to 16 to Miss P and 
has offered a redress calculation which I have set out in detail in the background to this 
decision and which I think is in line with our approach.
The key issue then is whether ECI has done  enough to address  the complaint. ECI has 
accepted it should not have lent loans 4 to 16 to Miss P. On receiving our adjudicators view, 
ECI took steps  to take back  the outstanding debt from the debt collector.  ECI then calculated  
that Miss P had repaid  the total amount of £2,484.43, which  left an outstanding balance  of 
£97.88, after they added  on 8% interest and deducted  20% tax. It also agreed to correct the 
credit file in the ways  requested by our adjudicator once Miss P has paid the outstanding 
balance. 
Miss P told us she suffered serious mental health issues  as a result  of the irresponsible 
lending and she does  not feel the redress takes that into account. So I considered industry  
guidance regarding  vulnerable consumers.  The guidance expressly refers to treating 
consumers fairly, particularly when dealing with consumers  with mental health problems. But 
the fact that a consumer has mental  health  issues doesnt mean a debt should  simply be 
written off. And ECI should respond to Miss Ps circumstances positively and 
sympathetically. 
From what  Ive seen in this case, I havent  seen  any evidence about when Miss Ps mental 
health issues started,  or that Miss P told ECI she was vulnerable at the time of her financial 
difficulty. So I dont  think its fair to criticise ECI for not doing  something different by adding  
further compensation for Miss P. I think Miss P now has the chance to tell ECI about  her 
mental health status and to agree a payment plan for the outstanding balance.  And ECI will 
have to deal with her requests positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think Elevate Credit International Limited has suggested a fair 
way to settle this complaint so it should  put things  right according to the terms of the offer it 
has agreed to make.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311576