K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made it clear  that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this because  Ive 
been given a copy of the credit card application  form which was completed  at the time and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if PPI is required. On 
Mrs Ws form I can see that the box has been ticked.  If Mrs W didnt want  to take out the PPI 
she could have left the tick box blank. And she has signed the overall  application which 
suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. 
Mrs W has told us that she didnt know the policy had been added to her account. Ive 
been given copies of credit card statements from Mrs Ws account  and I can see that the 
charge for the policy showed as a separate entry on the statements. So if she didnt know 
what this was, or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think she would  have questioned  this with 
BoS sooner than she did.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs W which means  it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to and limits  on the PPI and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mrs W has told us she would have received at least six months sick pay from her employer if 
she was too ill to work. But this policy could have paid out for up to 12 months  which would 
be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she may have received. And it 
would also have provided cover if Mrs W had lost her job. Mrs W has told us that her parents 
could have helped  her meet her repayments  if she wasnt  earning. While I appreciate her 
family may have wanted to help, support from others cant  be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change, meaning they cant provide such financial assistance.
This means  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold and so BoS doesnt have to refund the 
premiums paid for the PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has told us - including what  she has said about  
savings she had. Mrs W said she had some savings  at the time of taking out the card and 
these were held by her parents. She has told us that the savings were  for the specific 
purpose of helping her to buy a property. But by having this policy it would  have enabled 
her to protect her savings for the original purpose  she had intended if she wasnt earning. 
So I think this would  have  given her some reassurance that she wouldnt have to use these 
funds if something was to go wrong. So this point doesnt alter my decision.
Ref: DRN92662792my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9266279