K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say they were mis-sold a regular premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy by NRAM Limited  (NRAM).
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a joint mortgage with NRAM in 2004. At the same time they took out 
a regular premium PPI policy in Mr Gs sole name to cover their mortgage repayments if Mr 
G was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he thought the policy 
was presented as optional  and wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr and Mrs G disagree. They say they didnt need it and didnt know it was optional. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. NRAM had to make it clear the PPI was optional and 
not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs G say this wasnt done  but havent  given  us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  the documents 
from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
The PPI policy was applied for on a separate  section  of the mortgage application form that 
was detached  and sent off independently to the insurer.  It also had a separate  direct debit 
mandate from the mortgage. Due to the passage of time NRAM doesnt have a copy of the 
application form that was completed for Mr and Mrs G but I think  it was likely a form was 
completed as I have seen  a copy of the welcome letter sent out to them which confirms they 
applied for PPI and the mortgage offer also confirms they had chosen to take out PPI.
Ive also seen a copy of the discussion notes  taken by the NRAM adviser  and signed  by Mr 
and Mrs G. The notes record that PPI was recommended  and that Applicants agree with 
my recommendation however they would like to take cover for £400  P/M and to protect  
Applicant 1 income  only.  
So I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve  understood they had a choice in taking the policy and that 
it was separate  from the mortgage and that they had PPI because  they chose  to take it after 
being recommended  it. 
The notes record that NRAM  advised Mr and Mrs G to take the policy.  What  this means is 
that NRAM not only had to provide  information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way so that Mr and Mrs G could make an informed  choice about buying  PPI. It also had to 
Ref: DRN90269102make sure that if it were  to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr Gs needs and 
circumstances.
I dont know if NRAM did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G for the following  reasons:
Mr G was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr G says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay and didnt need  the policy.  I can 
see that the notes  taken  at the time also back this up recording that he wouldve been  
entitled to six months full and then six months half sick pay if he was unable to work due 
to accident or sickness. But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
this and for potentially  longer as well as covering him if he became unemployed.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs G in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs G at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.
I also need to consider  whether NRAM gave  Mr and Mrs G information  in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if NRAM did give all the information  as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs G have told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper  information.
Ref: DRN90269103So this means  Mr and Mrs G arent  worse off as a result of any wrong doing by NRAM.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against NRAM 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9026910