K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Services Limited  has declined his claim under his home 
emergency cover.
Ill refer to British Gas Services Limited  in this decision also with reference  to its agents.
background
Mr B has explained that around 20 years ago, he had a blocked rainwater drain  leading  to a 
soakaway. He says that engineers from his local council lifted the covering paving  stone and 
said that the soakaway couldnt be cleared; and he was therefore instructed to install  and 
extend the pipework  below  ground and divert  the flow into the sewer system, even though it 
is not normal practice to divert surface  water  into the main sewer  system.
Mr B emphasises that the council is responsible for all drainage, and the review, approval 
and subsequent supervision  of all new building works in the area; and he can only assume it 
was fully familiar with whatever regulations were in place  at the time.
 
Mr B contacted British  Gas Services about his home emergency policy and a new blockage 
in his piping system in 2018.
British Gas Services decided that this blockage  isnt covered under the policy. It said that the 
pipes used were  the wrong type and wrong size, and it pointed  to the pre-existing faults  
section of the policys general exclusions.
Mr B disagrees and he referred his complaint here.  Our investigator  recommended  that his 
complaint be upheld. She said that drainage standards have changed over the years,  and 
she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for British  Gas Services to apply current  standards  
in drainage to assess whether there was a pre-existing fault. She said that without further 
information to show that the pipework didnt meet the standards  in place at the time it was 
installed, British  Gas Services should reassess  Mr Bs claim,  without  relying on the 
pre-existing faults general exclusions,  subject  to the remaining  policy terms and conditions.
British Gas Services disagrees with our investigators recommendation. It says that it may 
have said Mr Bs pipework doesnt  meet current standards, but its the type of pipe used that 
is the issue; when  it visited  Mr Bs property, it quickly established that an incorrect  pipe had 
been installed  a downpipe for guttering, unsuitable  for underground  work. It also says that 
it simply isnt able to use any equipment to remove the blockage, as the pipe would break. 
Mr Bs complaint was passed to me for a decision. I sent Mr B and British  Gas Services my 
provisional decision on 19 September 2018 explaining why I was intending  to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint and to direct  British Gas Services to accept and settle the claim. I said that before 
I made  my final decision Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me.
Mr B has responded and says Im intending to direct British Gas Services to accept and 
settle the claim; the word  settle  suggests  he could be involved with further negotiations with 
British Gas Services about what it will and will not do, in which case he could end up 
referring the dispute back to this service. He would instead prefer  a direction that 
British Gas Services restores the pipework to its original  state  and repairs free of charge any 
damage it causes. He also says that the pipe has never been blocked before  and the first 
section was cleared  without the pipe breaking.
Ref: DRN91087962British Gas Services has responded and largely  repeated previous points. It says the pipe 
used is the wrong  pipe under both todays standards and when it was installed. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my 
provisional decision. Ive explained  my reasons again below, with some further comment  
where appropriate to address the responses to my provisional decision.
British Gas Services declined Mr Bs claim relying on the pre-existing faults section of the 
general exclusions in the policy terms and conditions. These state that:
Im not persuaded that its fair and reasonable for the pipe to constitute  a fault or design fault 
for the purposes  of the policy. Im therefore not satisfied its fair and reasonable for 
British Gas Services to decline Mr Bs claim relying on this section of the policy. Mr B has 
consistently and persuasively said that the previous repair was completed  in line with 
instructions from council engineers. Im satisfied it would have been reasonable for Mr B to 
presume those engineers would have  known about  the various regulations  in place at the 
time, and that its unlikely  they would have  recommended  a sub-standard or inappropriate 
repair. I understand, also, that Mr B is a chartered engineer, so its unlikely he would,  with 
advice from his council,  have completed  a sub-standard repair to his property.
British Gas Services says that its engineers are experts on this type of work and that they 
say the downpipe is unsuitable  for underground  work. But British Gas Services doesnt 
appear to dispute  that standards in drainage have changed since the initial  repair (around 20 
years ago). And although British Gas Services  says that the pipe used is the wrong pipe 
under both todays  standards  and when it was installed, it hasnt provided enough evidence 
to persuade me that the pipe fairly and reasonably constitutes a fault or design fault, as 
distinguished from it just not being  the type of pipe it would use for the work  now.
British Gas Services says that if it tried to remove the blockage,  the pipe wouldnt cope with 
the water  pressure needed and it would shatter to pieces. But the policy  covers  replacement 
of parts  that cant  be repaired. British Gas Services says that replacement  of the faulty pipe 
would constitute  betterment to the system, which it says isnt covered  its a chargeable 
upgrade. And I note that the policys general  exclusions, under the sub-heading  Making any 
improvements, state that the policy doesnt include  any improvement or upgrades; and the 
policy defines upgrade as improvements that make your boiler,  appliance or system  safer,  
or more  efficient.
But Im not persuaded this would be a fair and reasonable  application of the policy terms 
here. The pipe was designed,  as I understand it, to carry water away,  and if 
British Gas Services was to re-pipe the section it would still do that. British Gas Services 
might say it would  do so more efficiently,  because the pipe it would use would be better. But 
as far as Im aware, the existing pipework didnt regularly block,  so it doesnt appear that the 
pipe previously used  was particularly prone to blocking. I also havent seen any evidence 
that sufficiently persuades  me that any blockage is due to the type of pipe used as opposed 
Ref: DRN91087963to other  factors. So I dont accept that British Gas Services replacing the pipe would 
constitute a material  improvement  to the system. British Gas Services would simply be 
replacing the blocked pipe with another pipe without a blockage,  one that might still block  in 
the future,  and wouldnt in my opinion,  make the system significantly different  enough  to 
fairly and reasonably apply these terms.
Im therefore  not satisfied  its fair and reasonable for British Gas Services  to decline Mr Bs 
claim for the reasons its said.
British Gas Services hasnt given any other  reasons  why the claim would be declined, so it 
should now accept  and settle  the claim.
Mr B has asked  for a more definitive  direction than this. But the complaint brought  here for 
me to decide  is about British Gas Services decision to decline the claim. Ive said its not fair 
and reasonable for British Gas Services to decline the claim for the reasons its given, and 
that, as it hasnt given  any other reasons why the claim would be declined, 
British Gas Services should now accept and settle  the claim. But it wouldnt be appropriate  
here for me to specifically  direct the specific nature of the work to be completed to settle  the 
claim. This is for British Gas Services to now implement.  If Mr B is subsequently  dissatisfied 
with how British Gas Services has settled the claim, this is something he should raise as a 
new issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint and I direct British  Gas Services Limited to 
accept and settle the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9108796