K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2009. Mrs M says Tesco Personal  Finance PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Tesco had to make  it clear to Mrs M that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs M says she was told she had to have the PPI.
Tesco has said Mrs M applied for the credit  card online, and its sent us screenshots of what 
it says the online application form wouldve looked  like. These  show  a section on PPI with 
yes and no options to be selected.  And I havent  seen anything  in the screenshots which 
suggests customers have  to have the PPI or that the yes option was pre-selected.
Tesco has also sent us a copy of Mrs Ms credit  card agreement. This had a section on PPI 
with a statement  saying  Mrs M wanted  to take it out and a space for her to sign to agree. 
And Mrs M signed in the space electronically.
Based on this, I think Tesco did make it clear  to Mrs M that she had a choice about  the PPI. 
And that Mrs M chose  to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Tesco gave Mrs M any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommend it to her. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI was right 
for Mrs M. But it did have to make  sure she got the information she needed to decide  if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the policy couldve paid out for longer than Mrs M has told us she wouldve been  
entitled to full sick pay. So it would  have been  useful  for her if something went wrong.
Mrs M has mentioned some medical  conditions she had. But from what  shes  said,  I dont 
think any claims as a result of these conditions  not being covered wouldve affected her 
decision to take out the policy. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  So I still think it would have been useful for her. And so I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs M off taking it out.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN94173442But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs M the difference between  
what Mrs M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs M 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9417344