K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  about the way AXA Insurance  UK Plc handled  her claim under her car 
insurance policy. 
background
Miss Ks car was broken  into. She says she called AXA to report  it and was told that if she 
made a claim it wouldnt affect her no claims discount (NCD). Miss K made a claim under 
her policy the next day. It was agreed  that her car would be taken in for repair. Miss K raised 
the following  complaints about the way her claim was handled:
Her car had to be recovered to her home because it had been  made  un-driveable by 
the break  in. She had to pay for recovery separately  because  she was unable  to get 
through to AXA on the phone. 
It took three days before her car was sent for repairs  so she was without  a car for that 
time and unable to work. 
Her NCD was affected by the claim and she has now had to pay higher premiums  
with her new insurer. 
She had to make numerous calls and her initial complaint wasnt logged or 
responded to in good time. 
AXA acknowledged it incorrectly  told Miss K that her NCD wouldnt be affected by the claim. 
Because of this it said it would reinstate it. It also acknowledged that it had caused a delay in 
having the car repaired due to confusion about which garage was on its approved  repairer 
network. It agreed to pay Miss K £150 compensation for the poor way it had handled the 
claim. 
Miss K wasnt happy with that response. She said AXA had still not reinstated her NCD  and 
it hadnt addressed  her issues  about the way her complaint  had been  handled.  Overall  she 
didnt think £150  compensation  was sufficient for the problems and costs shed incurred.
I sent Miss K and AXA my provisional decision  on 17 January 2019.  I explained  why 
I thought AXAs offer to reinstate the NCD and pay £150 compensation was fair. My 
provisional findings said:
reinstatement of NCD
AXA accepts  it incorrectly told Miss K that her NCD wouldnt  be affected if she made 
a claim.  But I think its offer of reinstating  it is more than it needed to do. This is 
because where  a business does  something wrong,  our general approach would be to 
put the consumer back  in the position  they would have been in if the mistake hadnt  
been made. 
Miss Ks NCD was always going to be affected  by the claim.  This is because AXA 
wouldnt be able to recover  their costs from the person(s)  who caused the damage to 
Ref: DRN90675022Miss Ks car. This is normal practice  within the insurance industry. So I dont think 
AXA needed  to offer to reinstate the NCD because the correct position Miss K should 
be in is to have  her NCD reduced. Because AXA has agreed  to reinstate it, its 
already done more  than I would have considered fair and reasonable. For this 
reason, I dont think it needs  to do any more.  
I do think AXA took a long time to reinstate Miss Ks NCD and had incorrectly told her 
on more than one occasion that it had been done. But because the NCD 
reinstatement is an extra benefit Miss K shouldnt be entitled to, it wouldnt  be fair for 
me to also award  further compensation for any delay in reinstating  it. 
Miss K may have been able to get a refund  for additional premiums she paid for her 
new insurer. And she might still be able to do so even with the delay in reinstating the 
NCD. But even if she cant I dont think it would  be fair to make any award  for this 
against AXA. This is because any refund of premium she might  receive  is more  than 
Miss K was reasonably entitled to (as AXA didnt  need to reinstate the NCD in the 
first place). 
delays with the claim
Miss K says AXA should cover the costs of recovering her car to her home. But I 
dont think that would  be reasonable. Ive listened to the first call Miss K had with 
AXA. In the call Miss K explains that the police  instructed her to have the car towed 
to her home. She makes no mention of trying  to get through to AXA to arrange  
recovery, nor does  she ask AXA at that stage to help cover  her costs. 
Miss K has also been a little inconsistent with what shes told us about the recovery. 
She initially told us she claimed on a different  policy and later said that she paid to 
have it recovered.  But when our investigator asked for evidence  of those costs she 
couldnt provide  them.  So on balance, Im not persuaded that she did try and contact 
AXA prior to her arranging  recovery. And even if she did, I cant  be sure what loss  if 
any  shes actually suffered as a result. So its not appropriate for me to make  AXA 
pay anything for this. 
Miss Ks policy says AXA will supply her with a courtesy car while her car is being 
repaired. So until her car was at the garage  for repair she wasnt  entitled  to one. But 
AXA does accept it caused a small delay in getting  the repair arranged. So this did 
unfairly prevent  Miss K from getting a courtesy car sooner.  However, there will 
always be some  inconvenience caused in making a claim. And it appears  that any 
delay was relatively minor. Ive taken into account  what shes  told us about  her 
losses, but I think AXAs offer to reinstate  the NCD and pay her £150 is fair 
compensation for any inconvenience and upset these delays caused her. 
customer service
Lastly, Miss K was unhappy about the overall  service she received  in relation to her 
claim and subsequent complaint. She says her complaint wasnt logged  correctly or 
responded to promptly and when calling she was often left on hold for a long time. I 
can see AXA did make  a record  of Miss Ks original complaint when she first raised 
her concerns. But I agree AXA did take a long time to issue a response to her. 
Ref: DRN90675023Whilst I understand that delay will have been  frustrating for her, I dont think it had 
any significant detriment  to her as her claim was still progressing  as it should. And as 
Ive said above,  AXAs offer of reinstating the NCD was more than I would have 
expected them to do. With that in mind  and taking into account all the other 
circumstances of the complaint, I think the additional £150 compensation AXA paid 
for the overall  poor way it managed her claim and complaint was fair.
AXA agreed with my provisional decision  but Miss K didnt. In summary she said she only 
made the claim on the understanding that her NCD wouldnt be affected. Had she known it 
would have been affected she might  not have submitted a claim. She tried to call AXA to 
recover her car but was on hold a very long time, she said she would try and get 
confirmation of this from her telephone bills. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision.  But Ill address the additional points  Miss K 
has raised. 
Miss K says she may not have submitted  a claim at all if shed  known her NCD would have 
been affected. But I dont need to consider this point further because AXA has agreed to 
reinstate her NCD anyway. So Miss K has had the benefit of making  a claim without her 
NCD being affected. I accept it took a long time for the NCD to be reinstated, but Miss K has 
now been placed in a better position than she reasonably ought to be in. This is because  she 
has both her NCD intact and had her claim paid for  had everything been done  correctly 
she would  only ever have  had one or the other. 
Miss K has been unable  to provide any telephone  bills to show she tried to call AXA before 
arranging alternative  recovery. Shes  also not been  able to provide anything to show  what 
this cost. So even  if I thought AXA should  cover her financial loss (which I dont, for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision above), I cant fairly decide what  her loss is  if any. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint as I think  AXA Insurance UK Plcs 
offer to reinstate Miss Ks NCD and pay her £150 compensation is fair in these  
circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9067502