K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Evergreen Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
didnt carry out appropriate affordability  checks before lending  to her.
background
Miss B had one £500 loan from MoneyBoat on 17 Sep 2018.  It was due to be repaid in six 
instalments of £139.23. Miss B says MoneyBoat was irresponsible  to lend to her as she was 
already over-committed debt-wise. She says she was experiencing financial difficulties and 
was caught in a short-term lending cycle which led to her being  in a debt management plan.
MoneyBoat says it asked Miss B about her income and expenditure and checked her credit 
file before approving the loan. It says the figures  Miss B provided  showed the instalments 
were affordable, even  after it had adjusted her expenditure to reflect information found in her 
credit file. It adds that Miss B actually  applied for a £1,500 loan, but it only approved £500.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said the credit report 
obtained by MoneyBoat at the time of the application showed Miss B was already having 
problems managing her money and was unlikely  to be able to sustainably repay a further 
loan. He recommended  interest and charges should be refunded on the loan and that any 
adverse information  should be removed form the credit file.
MoneyBoat responded to say, in summary that its checks were proportionate  given the 
infancy of the lending relationship and that it was unrealistic to expect an underwriter  to 
review every  line of a credit file, especially for a first loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal the loans had become,  or were becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN92105682I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish  
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make repayments  
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Im satisfied that MoneyBoat carried out proportionate  checks at the time she applied for the 
loan and, based on the information she provided  about income  and expenditure, I can 
understand why MoneyBoat found the instalments to be affordable. But, as part of these 
initial checks, MoneyBoat obtained  Miss Bs credit file. This shows she had taken out at least 
four other short-term loans at the end of August 2018, with monthly  commitments  of around 
£1,350. Given  MoneyBoat  had calculated Miss Bs disposable income to be around  £850, I 
consider it was irresponsible to approve  a further  loan.
I acknowledge that MoneyBoat approved a much  smaller loan than the one for which Miss B 
had applied, but I think it should have  seen from her credit file that she was already 
struggling to manage  her money and, therefore, it should not have added to her debt. So Im 
upholding Miss Bs complaint and MoneyBoat should put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Evergreen Finance London Limited  (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss B paid on the loan;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on refunds from payment date to settlement date*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for the loan,  apply  the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Miss B; 
Remove any negative  information about the loan from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest.  MoneyBoat 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
MoneyBoat intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9210568