K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs S complain  about the payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to them  by 
Leeds Building Society with their mortgage. 
background
Mr H and Mrs S took out a mortgage  with Leeds Building Society in 1993  and at the same 
time PPI was added  in Mr Hs name only. They said this PPI policy was mis-sold to them.  
They also said when Mr H tried to make  a claim on the policy  in 1994, the policy  didnt pay 
out.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr H and Mrs Ss concerns. The adjudicator  noticed that Mr H 
and Mrs S had already  complained to this service about these  things and received a 
decision on these matters. 
The adjudicator did consider whether Mr H and Mrs S were  eligible  to have some of the 
commission they paid on the PPI premiums  refunded, because this hadnt  been looked at 
before. Our adjudicator  concluded they werent, so didnt uphold  their complaint.  
Mr H and Mrs S disagreed and said, in summary, they werent  complaining about the 
commission, but the breach of contract because PPI was mis-sold to them  and the claim 
Mr H made  in 1994 was not paid, causing them  to lose their home.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2013, this service  issued a decision on Mr H and Mrs Ss complaint  about the mis-sale of 
this PPI policy. It also issued a decision on Mr Hs complaint about  Leeds Building Societys 
refusal to pay out on his claim in 1994, when  he was out of work. As these matters have 
already been dealt  with by this service,  I havent reconsidered them  here.
As our adjudicator explained, the Supreme Court decided a case that involved commission 
on a PPI policy. This case was called  Plevin  v Paragon Personal Finance. In 2017, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), who makes rules for financial businesses, introduced 
some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow  when looking at complaints about 
commission. As this service hasnt previously  issued a final decision on whether Mr H and 
Mrs S are due back some of the commission they paid on their PPI policy, Ive considered 
this. 
Ive found that Mr H and Mrs Ss credit agreement doesnt fall within the dates set out in the 
guidance issued  by the FCA. So, I dont  think that Leeds Building Society has to refund any 
of the commission  it paid on their PPI policy. It follows that I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr H 
and Mrs Ss complaint  either. Their complaints about the mis-sale of this PPI and 
Mr Hs 1994 claim  have  already been dealt with and those previous decisions stand.
Ref: DRN90093822my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr H and Mrs Ss complaint about  PPI commission.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9009382