K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal bank of Scotland Plcs bank statements do not show pending 
transactions. Hes also unhappy about the service  he received when he visited a branch and 
how RBS responded  to his complaint. He wants RBS to pay him compensation for its poor 
service.
background 
statements
Mr S wants  to be able to see pending transactions on his mini statements. He says because 
he cant see this information it makes it difficult for him to monitor his account and keep track 
of transactions.  
Mr S raised his complaint about the information shown on his statements with RBS in 2015. 
RBS issued a final response in the matter on 3 November  2015. The final response 
explained that Mr S could  refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service  if he 
wasnt happy with RBSs response to his complaint. And that he had six months to refer his 
complaint to us. 
Mr S referred his complaint to us on 25 April 2019. RBS said Mr S had referred  his complaint 
to us too late. So it didnt  consent to us looking into things. Our investigator didnt think  we 
had the power  to consider  his complaint  about  his mini statements because it wasnt  referred 
to us within six months of RBSs final response  letter. And Mr Ss failure to contact  us in time 
wasnt because of exceptional circumstances. Mr S disagreed.  He says RBS carried on 
corresponding with him so he should  be allowed to bring his complaint to us. 
service issues
Mr S says when he went into a branch in March 2019 to deposit  cash into his account and 
make an international  payment he had to wait in two separate  queues. He says this caused 
him a great deal of frustration and wasted  time.  He thinks both transactions shouldve been 
dealt with at the same  time by the same member  of staff. He wants  RBS to pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused  him.
Mr S also says whilst  waiting  in the branch queue he was abused  by another customer  who 
was chatting to the branch manager, who had her back  to him. Mr S says the customer 
called him an old man and told him to go away. Mr S complained to RBS about its new 
processes and the service provided  by the branch manager. He said the manager  shouldve 
been focussed on reducing  the queues and not chatting to people. 
RBS said that it had recently changed the way it processes cash  and international payments 
by implementing  a new system to reduce  queueing time for customers in branch. It 
apologised to Mr S if hed been  upset  by comments made by another  customer.  And 
explained that the branch  manager was performing the role of meeting and greeting  
customers, which meant her back wouldve been turned to customers  already inside the 
branch such as Mr S. And that part of this role required her to speak  to customers  as they 
came into the branch.  RBS apologised if this had caused Mr S any upset or inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN96852462Our investigator said that as a service  we wouldnt comment on RBSs  processes, but it 
wasnt unreasonable for RBS to employ  a queueing system. She also thought  RBS had 
done enough to put things right by apologising to Mr S. 
response to complaint
Mr S is also upset about how RBS handled his complaint. He says he was disappointed  that 
RBS said it hadnt  done anything wrong.  And when he spoke to staff about his complaint on 
the phone  he thought  they were rude. The call recording of the phone call between  Mr S and 
RBS recording wasnt available. But a call note of the conversation outlined that the call had 
been quite difficult.  So RBS apologised to Mr S for any offence  that had been  caused 
during the call. 
Our investigator thought RBS had done  enough  to put things right. Mr S disagreed  and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
On 28 August 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  on this complaint. I explained  I didnt think 
we could look into Mr Ss complaint about  the information shown on his bank statements 
because he referred  it to this service  too late. And I wasnt  satisfied that RBS had continued 
to correspond with him about his complaint. I also said that this service  doesnt have powers  
to tell banks how to run their branches, in particular RBS implementing queueing systems. 
And that operational issues fall within the remit of the Financial Conduct Authority.  
In my provisional decision I also explained that complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity 
within the jurisdiction  of this service,  though  we can look at whether a business has generally 
treated a consumer fairly and reasonably. I noted  RBS had apologised  if it had upset 
Mr S when it told him it wasnt upholding his complaint. So I was satisfied RBS had done  
enough in order  to put things right in a fair and reasonable way. 
I asked Mr S and RBS to let me have  any further information they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision. RBS didnt have anything further to add. Mr S didnt 
accept my provisional decision. He said we should look into his complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr S and RBS havent made any more 
comments, or offered any more evidence, my findings about  this complaint havent changed. 
Based on the evidence  Ive looked  at, Im satisfied that RBS sent its final response to Mr S 
and that it was clear  he had six months  to contact  this service if he wished to complain. He 
didnt do this until 25 April 2019. So the complaint was referred out of time under the rules 
that I must apply. And I dont think there are exceptional circumstances that mean our rules  
can be set aside on this occasion. So we cant look at Mr Ss complaint about the lack of 
information on his bank statements.
I understand the points Mr S has made about how RBS has chosen  to offer its services.  And 
I can appreciate that Mr S was frustrated at having  to wait in two separate  queues  to carry 
out his banking. And that he was inconvenienced.  But it isnt realistic  to expect the bank to 
compensate every customer who has to wait in a queue. And our service doesnt have 
powers to tell banks  how to run their branches. Operational issues fall within  the remit of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
Ref: DRN96852463Ive considered all the evidence  in this case carefully. But I simply dont think that I can be 
sufficiently clear about what went wrong in this case,  to decide that the fault lies wholly  with 
RBS. It was actually another customer who upset Mr S whilst in branch and not a member  of 
RBS staff. And in this case, I note that RBS has already  apologised if its staff had caused 
him any upset. So I think  that provides a fair and reasonable outcome.
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been to Mr S when he didnt  get the outcome he 
wanted when  he complained to RBS. And I appreciate Mr S feels  strongly  that RBS has 
caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience because he had to complain. But 
complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity within the jurisdiction of this service,  though  we 
can look at whether a business has generally treated a consumer fairly and reasonably.
Im satisfied that RBS responded to Mr Ss complaint points  albeit with an answer he 
wasnt happy with. RBS has also apologised to Mr S if it caused him any upset.  So I think 
RBS has done  enough in order to put things right.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is that we cant look into Mr Ss complaint about  
his bank statements  as it was referred too late. 
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about  the service The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc provided  
to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9685246