K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Virgin Money plc handled her credit card account  after she 
reported fraudulent  transactions  made on it.  
background
In December 2018 Virgin Money alerted Mrs C to what  it considered to be suspicious 
payments on her credit card. Most of them were  made to online music  and entertainment 
subscription services, but there were also retail  payments. Mrs C didnt recognise the 
payments and contacted Virgin Money. 
Virgin Money blocked Mrs Cs card and sent Mrs C a fraud declaration  to complete. Mrs C 
says Virgin  Money didnt explain to her that her card had been blocked and that, because 
she could no longer use her card, she had to borrow money  from family.  
In the meantime, some subscription payments continued to be taken from the account. That 
meant that Mrs C had to contact Virgin Money  on several occasions. 
Virgin Money did refund all the disputed payments, and Mrs Cs account statements indicate 
that it also made adjustments for interest  and fees caused by the fraudulent payments. It 
also credited the account with £75 in recognition  of the inconvenience to which  Mrs C had 
been put.  
Around the same time Mrs C says she sought  a refund of a card payment from a different 
retailer, because the goods it supplied were  not of satisfactory  quality. The retailer  agreed  to 
that refund but had difficulty arranging it because Mrs Cs account  had been blocked. 
Virgin Money said however that it couldnt close the account while its investigations were 
continuing. Mrs C made  arrangements to transfer the balance, but, by April 2019, her 
account was just over £160 in credit. Several months later, Virgin  Money hadnt transferred 
that balance to Mrs C. 
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Cs complaint. She thought  that Virgin Moneys  
payment of compensation hadnt  gone quite far enough and recommended that it be 
increased to £100  in total. Neither  Mrs C nor Virgin Money agreed with her 
recommendations, and so Ive reviewed the complaint  as the final stage in our process.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to repeat in detail everything thats happened here. Mrs Cs card details were 
used to make fraudulent  payments,  but Virgin Money was entitled to look into what  had 
happened. I agree though  that it could have  explained  more clearly what  it was doing and 
why. In particular,  I dont believe it made clear to Mrs C the implications of blocking the 
account and didnt take action soon enough  after it had satisfied itself that the transactions 
were, indeed, fraudulent,  to close the account. 
For her part, Mrs C believes that she should be compensated for the time she spent dealing 
with this complaint  at her usual hourly rate. I dont agree however thats  appropriate in this 
case. Rather, Ive considered the overall level of inconvenience that Virgin  Moneys handling 
Ref: DRN94767952of the matter has caused. And I must have in mind  of course that Mrs C would have been 
inconvenienced to some  extent by having her card details compromised,  however well Virgin  
Money had dealt with that. 
For these reasons, Im broadly in agreement with the investigators overall conclusions here. 
I think that a fair outcome  would  be for Virgin Money  to pay Mrs C a further  £25, in addition 
to the £75 its already paid. I understand that its now closed the account and paid the credit 
balance to Mrs C, as well as refunding the disputed transactions, with adjustments for 
interest and charges, so I wont be making any award in respect of those matters.
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mrs Cs complaint, Virgin  Money plc should  pay 
her a further £25. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision before  6 January 2020. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9476795