K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Limited  wont refund to him the money that he paid for some  
floor tiles. 
background
Mr R used his NewDay credit card in June 2018  to pay £538.06 for some  floor tiles. The tiles 
were laid but Mr R says that he then noticed that there was a colour variation amongst the 
tiles. He contacted the supplier and it offered him a 20% refund. He didnt accept  that offer 
and claimed a refund from NewDay. It said that he hadnt returned the tiles to the supplier so 
it was unable to refund the money  that hed paid for them. Mr R wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that if the tiles 
hadnt been laid a fair resolution would have been for NewDay to take possession of them 
and refund Mr R in full. But as that wasnt practical and as Mr R hadnt mitigated his 
circumstances, he thought that a fair outcome was for NewDay  to refund Mr R 50% of the 
payment that he made. 
Mr R has accepted the investigators  recommendation but NewDay has asked  for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
Mr R had the opportunity to check for colour  variations in the tiles prior to them  being  
laid and the tiler should also have checked  them;
it accepts that there is a variation  in the colour  of the tiles but that is often  a 
characteristic of the tiles and even  in the same  batch the tiles can vary quite 
dramatically;
tile suppliers document  the importance  of checking tiles for colour and size prior to 
them being  laid and Mr R and the fitter should take some responsibility for not 
noticing the variations;
Mr R had a duty to mitigate  losses and should  have taken steps to prevent this from 
happening; and
the suppliers terms and conditions on its website clearly  point out the importance of 
checking the goods for suitability and colour variations and it doesnt believe that 
Mr R has followed  that advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R complained to NewDay about  the tiles. It dealt with his complaint as a claim for a 
chargeback and said that, because he hadnt returned the tiles to the supplier, the claim 
couldnt be successful.  It initially didnt deal with his complaint as a claim for a refund under 
section 75  but then said it would do so  yet Ive seen no evidence  to show that its 
properly considered his complaint under section 75.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Rs complaint about  NewDay, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the tiles and that NewDay's response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
Ref: DRN92186352reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr Rs claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
From the photos that Mr R has provided there does seem to be a noticeable difference  in the 
finish of some of the tiles. Ive not been provided  with enough  evidence  to show  whether or 
not that difference would  have been noticeable before the tiles were laid. Mr R says that 
neither he nor his tiler noticed the difference before the tiles were laid.
The supplier  offered to refund to Mr R 20% of the cost of the tiles and the investigator 
recommended that it would be fair and reasonable for NewDay to refund to him 50% of the 
cost of the tiles.
NewDay has referred to the suppliers  terms and conditions. But its not been  able to provide 
a copy of the terms and conditions  which include the provision  to which  its referred  and 
the suppliers current  website doesnt  include that provision.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that there is a difference in the finish on some  of the 
tiles  and I consider that to be a breach  of contract by the supplier for which  NewDay is 
jointly liable under section 75. Mr R has accepted the investigators recommendation that 
NewDay should refund  to him 50% of the cost of the tiles. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order NewDay 
Limited to refund to him 50% of the cost of the tiles.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 Mayl  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9218635