K822xcomplaint
Mrs A has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim under her home  
insurance policy after her property was damaged by an escape  of water. Mrs A is 
represented in her complaint by her daughter, Ms A.
background 
Mrs As kitchen  and bathroom were  damaged  by an escape of water  from underneath her 
bath. She arranged for the leak to be fixed by her home emergency insurer  (which Ill call 
H). She then made a claim to Aviva for the damage caused by the leak.
Avivas contractor attended the property. She didnt  remove  the bath panel  to inspect under 
the bath but instead inspected photographs which had been taken by H. Based partly  on 
these photos,  the contractor  estimated  the damage would cost £664 to repair. Shortly  
afterwards, Aviva sent a cheque to Mrs A for this amount (less  the policy excess).
Miss A obtained a quote to carry out the repair  but this was £2,650. She didnt  cash  the 
cheque but instead rang Aviva to challenge  the proposed settlement.
Aviva told Mrs A to obtain photos of the damage underneath the bath so that it could 
reconsider its offer. Mrs A provided  photos which had been  taken  by H but Aviva said these 
were insufficient to cause  it to agree  to increase its settlement offer.
Mrs A was unhappy at Avivas stance and also at the unnecessary delays which  she felt had 
occurred in the handling of her claim. She complained to Aviva.
Aviva issued a final response  letter in which it maintained  that it couldnt increase its 
settlement offer without further evidence. As an alternative to Mrs A sending photos, it 
offered to send a contractor round to inspect underneath the bath and said this could be 
someone different  to the original contractor  if Mrs A wished. It acknowledged, however, that 
there had been  delays  in its handling of the claim and offered £100 compensation for this.  
Mrs A was unhappy at Avivas response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He noted the 
discrepancy between  Avivas estimate  and the quote obtained  by Mrs A. He noted that 
Mrs As builder  had proposed more substantial repairs to the bathroom floor than Avivas 
contractor had deemed necessary. He considered it was fair for Aviva to decline  to pay the 
additional amount until it had further evidence that this cost was justified. He therefore 
thought that its offer to send another contractor to assess  the damage,  or to look at photos 
provided by Mrs A, was reasonable. However,  he thought that this might all have been 
avoided if the contractor had looked under  the bath in the first instance, rather than rely on 
the photos provided by H. He furthermore thought that Aviva  should have volunteered to 
send someone round  to carry out another  inspection as soon  as it became apparent  that 
Mrs A was having trouble in providing photos,  particularly as she was elderly  and apparently 
in poor health.  He therefore considered it should pay a further  £250  compensation on top of 
the £100 it had already offered.
Aviva accepted the investigators findings but Mrs A did not. She said she was stressed and 
frustrated by the whole process  and no longer had any faith in Aviva.  She therefore didnt 
Ref: DRN97454942want its contractors to visit her property. She simply wanted Aviva to pay the full cost for her 
contractor to carry out the repair.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
Under the terms of the policy, Aviva may carry out repairs itself or it may provide a cash 
settlement to allow Mrs A to use her own contractor. However, if making a cash  settlement, 
Aviva isnt obliged  to pay more than the amount it would cost it to do the repairs  using its 
own contractor.
In this case, Mrs A said she wanted  to use her own contractor and Avivas contractor 
assessed the cost of repairs  as being £664. This is the amount (less the policy excess) 
which it therefore paid to Mrs A.
Mrs As builder  has quoted a significantly higher  sum to do the repair work. This is partly 
because, whereas Avivas contractor thought the area under the bath could be restored to its 
original state with a sugar wash to the floorboards and an antifungal treatment, Mrs As 
builder thought more  substantial  repairs were  necessary.
Rather than be intrusive, Avivas contractor based  her opinion on the visible damage and 
photos provided by H. I think  it reasonable that Aviva should  require further  evidence  before 
it agrees to the higher  quote. I therefore consider  its suggestion that either Mrs A provide 
additional photos or its contractor attends  to carry out another  inspection is reasonable, 
particularly as it has offered to send someone  different  to the original contractor.
Mrs A has made clear  she doesnt want Aviva to carry out the repairs,  nor does she want 
any of its contractors to visit her property again.  But unless Mrs A provides Aviva with an 
opportunity to confirm  the necessity of the work, I dont consider that she can reasonably 
expect Aviva to meet  the full cost of repair quoted by her builder.
Aviva accepted that it could have handled  Mrs As claim better and offered £100 
compensation. The investigator thought  it should  increase this by a further £250 to reflect its 
failings. Aviva has agreed to this and Im satisfied that this would bring the overall  level of 
compensation to a fair amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  give above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint  in part. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs A a further  £250  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A on behalf of 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9745494