K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  with the renewal  terms offered to her by her freezer warranty provider, 
London General  Insurance  Company Limited (LGI).
background
Mrs F had a service plan agreement with LGI. It cost her around £50 for the years cover. 
When she received renewal documents the price had gone  up to £90. Mrs F complained  but 
was told the price was non-negotiable. Mrs F complained to this service.
Our investigator spoke  to LGI. It said the plan had changed; it no longer offered the service  
plan agreements. LGI said it now provides added care plans which  contain more  benefits 
and, therefore,  cost more.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. She felt it was entitled to choose  what  it 
was prepared to offer cover for and on what terms. And Mrs F was free to choose whether or 
not to accept that offer.
Mrs F said she hadnt seen the new terms which showed the benefits  were different. These 
were sent to her.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this may be frustrating for Mrs F but an insurer isnt generally  obliged to keep 
continuing cover  year after year. If it wants to change what  it is offering or not make  any offer 
to provide cover at all, it is free to do so when  the previously existing policy  comes  up for 
renewal. 
From what  Ive seen that is what LGI did here.  It chose to change the insurance it was 
prepared to offer, and the new cover cost more. It told Mrs F what  it was prepared  to offer at 
renewal. It isnt obliged  to do any more than that.
I understand its disappointing  to Mrs F to find that the policy she had before has changed 
and increased  in price. But if Mrs F doesnt want the benefits  offered by the new policy,  she 
may be able to shop  around to find one more  similar to what she had before (in terms of 
cover and price). I cant reasonably require LGI to provide  to her the new cover  at the old 
price because shed  be unfairly benefitting  from the additional services  without  paying  the 
cost associated with them.
I also cant reasonably  require LGI to continue offering the cover  previously held by Mrs F 
(which would arguably attract the lower  price). LGI has decided  not to offer that cover any 
more and this service wouldnt usually get involved with such a business decision.    
Im not persuaded that LGI did anything wrong here.  Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint 
against it.
Ref: DRN92685582my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against London General Insurance 
Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Fiona Robison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9268558