K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about a logbook loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him in 
2017. Hes said that he was told to use the bank statements for his business account  during 
the affordability assessment and that these should never have  been  used as they didnt set 
out a true reflection of his income. He also says the loan was unaffordable  and the interest 
rate is so high that hes now at serious  risk of financial meltdown  
background
I attach my provisional decision of 3 May 2019, which forms part of this final decision.  In my 
provisional decision, I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint and invited 
both parties to make any final comments ahead  of my final decision. 
Following this, L2G confirmed having received my decision. But it didnt provide anything for 
me to think  about or ask for any additional  time to do so. Mr M said that he had an earlier 
loan in 2015 and this should have been considered  to get the full picture. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has referred to an earlier loan or loans not having been considered. But his complaint 
only ever referred to a single loan. And this is what was covered in L2Gs final response.    
Mr M didnt  say anything about  this being incorrect when he referred his complaint here. 
In any event, Im only able to look at a complaint once  the firm concerned has had the 
chance to consider it first. As L2G doesnt  appear to have had the chance to look at a 
complaint about  any earlier loans, Mr M will need to direct his concerns to it in the first 
instance. He should refer any complaint to us within any time limit specified in the final 
response should he be dissatisfied at any final response he receives from L2G.    
Turning now to the complaint about this loan, I set out in some detail why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint in my provisional  decision.  And, in the absence  of anything  further  
from L2G, I see no reason  to change my conclusions.
Ref: DRN98843762fair compensation  what  L2G needs to do to put things  right for Mr M.
Having carefully considered matters, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for L2G to put things right in the following way:
reduce the starting balance on Mr Ms loan to £11,000; and
reduce the new starting balance on Mr Ms loan by the amount of the payments made. 
Once the new starting balance wouldve been cleared by Mr Ms payments then any 
payments, or partial payments, made after this should be treated as overpayments;  and
refund any overpayments made;
add interest at 8% per year simple  on any overpayments from the date they were  made  
to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of this loan;
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must  give     
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 28 January 2019,  Im upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should  put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98843763COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained about a logbook loan Loans  2 Go Limited (L2G) provided  to him in 2017. Hes 
said that he was told to use the bank statements  for his business account during  the affordability 
assessment and that these should never have  been used as they didnt set out a true reflection  of his 
income. He also says the loan was unaffordable and the interest rate is so high that hes now at 
serious risk of financial meltdown.  
background
Mr M approached L2G for a loan in July 2017.  He was provided with a logbook loan of £11,000. The 
loan had an APR of 363.8% it was to be repaid over 36 monthly instalments  of around £1515. This 
meant the total charge  for the credit was £43,560 and the total amount Mr M had to repay was 
£54,560. As I understand it Mr M ran into difficulty paying this loan from the outset and he hasnt been 
able to make  any of the payments on time.  
the regulatory framework
L2G lent to Mr M while  it was authorised and regulated  by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA).
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to providers  of consumer credit like L2G. CONC  5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the Office of Fair Tradings  (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending  Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the 
following extracts, the FCAs CONC  rules specifically  note and refer back  to sections of the OFTs 
Irresponsible Lending  Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made;  and
Ref: DRN98843764[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within  a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. 
CONC 5.2.4G(2)  says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1)  says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments  under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end  agreement , 
within a reasonable period;  and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise  security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite  meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
Ref: DRN98843765In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  has a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income 
and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my provisional  findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order 
to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance, good industry  practice and law, I think  there are two 
overarching questions (as well as two potential sub-questions), I need to consider in order to 
provisionally decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These 
questions are:
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able 
to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending  decision?
oIf not, would those  checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
If I determine  that L2G didnt act fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and that he lost out as 
a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to 
repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations in place at the time L2G lent to Mr M required  it to carry  out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether Mr M could  afford to repay  his loans in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes  referred to as an affordability assessment  or affordability  check.
The affordability checks  had to be borrower-focused and shouldnt have just been concerned with 
L2Gs credit  risk. So L2G had to think about whether  Mr M would be able to repay  the loan 
sustainably. In practice this meant that L2G had to ensure  that making  the payments  to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough  for 
L2G to simply think about the likelihood  of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of 
loan repayments on Mr M. The existence of security for the loan,  in the form of the car, doesnt alter,  
lessen, or dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history,  
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount 
Ref: DRN98843766/ type / cost of credit  they are seeking. Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look 
different for different  loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that Mr M declared that he had a monthly income of £115,769.01,  which it verified by asking  
for bank statements. Mr M also said that he monthly expenditure and existing credit commitments  of 
£99,158.76, which was also verified by the bank statements. L2G also says that it carried out a credit 
check and all of the information considered  suggested  Mr M would  be able to comfortably make his 
loan repayments as and when they fell due.
Having carefully thought about what L2G has said, I dont think that its checks did go far enough.
Mr M says that he didnt tell L2G he had monthly income  of £115,769.01.  He says he told L2G that he 
didnt have a lot of income showing on his personal  bank  account statements. And he was told to use 
his business bank account  (which was in the name of limited company  and so had a separate legal 
personality) to show affordability. I dont  know if Mr M was encouraged  by L2G to use bank  
statements from his business account to prove affordability. But, in any event, I dont think  that I need 
to make a finding on this to determine this complaint.  
I say this because the figures  used to carry out the income and expenditure assessment make it clear 
that the statements  from the business  account  were used. And the statements clearly show that the 
account was in the name of limited company. Having  looked at the statements, I cant  even see that 
they even show how Mr M was being paid either. So I dont think  that it was fair, reasonable or 
proportionate for these  statements to have been used, irrespective of who suggested this. 
This account belonged to the limited company, which had a separate legal personality  from Mr M. So 
while funds were  going  into this account these funds  belonged to the limited company and it wasnt 
reasonable and proportionate  to classify  any, let alone all, of these funds as Mr Ms monthly  income  
because L2G was lending  to Mr M not the limited company. Im also mindful that the credit check  L2G 
carried out showed that Mr M had five active County Court Judgements recorded against him. And his 
credit file also showed  that hed defaulted on a mortgage too. 
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit  not being sustainable  directly relates to the 
amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.  
As this is the case, I have to question the wisdom of providing such a large amount of credit (at an 
interest rate which any reasonable  observer would describe as very expensive) to consumer with 
such a credit history given what it suggests about their likely financial situation.
Ref: DRN98843767But in any event, even  if L2G decided  that the credit file alone wasnt enough to ascertain        Mr Ms 
ability to sustainably maintain payments to this loan, I do think that L2G needed to get a 
comprehensive understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances.  In my view, given  what the credit file 
showed, the size of the monthly  payments, the term of the loan and the cost of the credit, I think the 
only fair, reasonable  and proportionate for L2G to have obtained the comprehensive understanding  
needed, in these particular  circumstances, wouldve  been by properly  scrutinising  Mr Ms personal 
bank statements. 
Its unclear whether L2G obtained the statements for Mr Ms personal account. But for reasons Ill go 
on to explain, in the next section of this decision, Im satisfied that L2G didnt properly scrutinise  Mr 
Ms personal  bank statements or any such equivalent. So I dont think  that L2G did completed 
reasonable and proportionate  affordability checks  before providing Mr M with this loan.
Would reasonable  and proportionate  checks have  indicated to L2G that Mr M would have been 
unable to sustainably  repay this loan?
As proportionate checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what  they wouldve  
shown. So I need to decide whether it is more  likely than not that proportionate checks  would  have 
shown L2G that it was unfair to offer this loan to Mr M. 
Mr M has provided us with evidence of his financial  circumstances at the time he applied for this loan. 
Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something shows 
up in the information  Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown  up in any checks L2G 
mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else from L2G showing  what this information  
would have shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Ms financial circumstances were more likely  than not to have  been like at the 
time.
I think  it is important for me to start by saying that L2G was required  to establish whether   Mr M could  
sustainably make  his loan repayments   not just whether the loan payments were technically  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence  calculation.  Of course the loan payments being  affordable on 
this basis  might be an indication  that a Mr M could  sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case.
This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make them without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr M has provided in light of this. 
It cant be much of a surprise for L2G to learn that while  Mr M was drawing a salary from his business, 
his monthly income was substantially  less than the £115,769.01 recorded on the income and 
expenditure form. That said,  Mr Ms monthly expenditure was also nowhere near £99,158.76 either. 
Mr Ms bank  personal bank  statements show that he had an actual income of around £1500  and his 
expenditure was also around this amount. 
So Mr Ms bank personal bank statements  appear to suggest that the monthly  repayments  for this 
loan took up his entire monthly income, which  was already  accounted for by his existing  expenditure. 
This doesnt even appear to take into account any payments towards  the active CCJs either. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that if L2G wouldve ascertained Mr Ms actual financial position as it 
ought to have  done if itd carried out proportionate checks it wouldve  seen that the reality of Mr Ms 
financial position matched what his credit  file showed. Given the state of Mr Ms finances,  there was 
no reasonable prospect of him sustainably making the payments to this loan. And in these 
Ref: DRN98843768circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks  would have alerted  L2G to the fact 
that Mr M was in no position  to be able to sustainably  make the repayments to this loan.     
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching questions, set out on page four of this 
decision, I think  that L2G unfairly  and unreasonably provided  Mr M with his logbook loan because  it 
failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and its more likely than not that such checks 
wouldve shown L2G that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay  it. So L2G shouldnt have 
provided the loan to Mr M. 
As Mr M has paid and is being expected to continue paying interest and charges  on a loan 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown hed be unable to sustainably repay, I 
think that he lost out because of what L2G did wrong. So having carefully thought about everything,  
Im intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint and tell L2G to put things right.
      
fair compensation   what I think that L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr M.
Having carefully considered matters, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for L2G to put things right in the following way:
reduce the starting balance  on Mr Ms loan to £11,000;  and
reduce the new starting balance on Mr Ms loan by the amount of the payments made. Once the 
new starting balance wouldve been cleared  by Mr Ms payments  then any payments, or partial  
payments, made after this should be treated as overpayments;  and
refund any overpayments made;
add interest  at 8% per year simple on any overpayments  from the date they were made  to the 
date of settlement  ;
remove  any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file;
HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest.  L2G must  give     Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint and tell                 Loans 2 Go 
Limited to put things right in the way set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 14 Days changes my mind, thats what  Ill tell L2G to 
do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9884376