K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited for declining  her 
claim under her pet insurance  policy.
background
Miss H made a claim  for her pet after it suffered a tracheal collapse. Red Sands declined the 
claim. It said the pet had shown signs of pre-existing conditions before the claim and before 
the policy was set up. It said if it had known about  the condition it wouldve applied  an 
exclusion and the claim wouldnt  be covered.  Miss H didnt accept this and brought  her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He accepted that if Red Sands had been aware 
of the pets previous cough when the policy was set up it wouldve excluded  claims relating 
to the respiratory  system. Our investigator  confirmed that the initial  sales  call recording from 
Red Sands  included a question about going  to the vet for anything other than routine 
vaccinations and Miss H answered  no. He accepted that if Miss H had told Red Sands 
about the visit to the vet regarding the pets cough  it wouldve  added  the exclusion to the 
policy. Miss H didnt  accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the initial call when Miss H contacted  Red Sands to discuss setting up a new 
policy for her pet. During the call Red Sands asked Miss H if she had taken her pet to the vet 
for anything  other than routine  vaccinations. Miss H confirmed that the visits had been purely 
routine. However,  the records from the vet show that only a couple  of weeks  prior to setting 
up the policy Miss H had been to the vet to discuss a coughing condition  and get some  
medication.
I understand the evidence produced by Miss H from the vet that said the two conditions  were 
entirely separate. But that isnt the point Red Sands is making. Red Sands has produced  
details of what exclusions it would  apply under the policy depending upon  what answers it 
gets to the questions it asks. It has clearly shown that if Miss H had told it about  the visit to 
the vet prior to the policy  being taken out it wouldve applied an exclusion to any claim 
relating to the respiratory system.
So in this case the issue isnt about  whether  or not the conditions  are different. What  is clear 
is the pet did have a condition prior to the start of the policy.  And if Red Sands had been 
made aware  of it anything  respiratory wouldve been excluded  from the start of the policy. So 
I think it acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Ref: DRN92268482Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9226848