K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of Mr O and Mrs B that National  Westminster Bank Plc failed to 
amend the signature mandates on two bank accounts, and later failed to follow his 
instructions to close the accounts.
background
Mr M, Mr O and Mrs B are the trustees  of a trust,  and Mr M is the chair  of the trustees. Mr O 
and Mrs B are also signatories of two of the trusts  bank accounts, but since  Mr M first 
brought this complaint, it has emerged  that Mr M is not a signatory himself. This means  that, 
under our rules, Mr M is not eligible to complain  about the accounts. Mr O and Mrs B were 
therefore invited  to sign our complaint form, which they did, and then Mr O authorised  Mr M 
to represent them in this complaint. (Mr M has also complained about a third account; that 
complaint has been dealt  with separately.)
Mr M complains about two issues. Firstly, he says that the names on the account  signature 
mandates are not accurate, because they should have been updated when he wrote  to 
NatWest to request  that they be changed,  but this was not done. Secondly,  he asked 
NatWest to switch the accounts to another bank, but this was not done either. NatWest says 
this was only because  Mr M was not a signatory on the accounts, and so he did not have 
authority to tell the bank what to do with them. NatWest says it did try to contact the 
signatories, but they did not respond. Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr M brought this 
complaint to our Service, initially on his own. But as I have said above, Mr O and Mrs B have 
now authorised  our Service to consider this complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint, as he accepted NatWests explanation.  Mr M 
did not accept  that decision, and he referred to letters in which  he had asked for the 
signatories to be changed. He also said that the people who he believed  were the correct 
signatories  but who the bank said were not  had been signing cheques for several years 
without the bank stopping the cheques.  But NatWest  pointed  out that one of the letters had 
been addressed  to another  financial institution (a building  society), and all of the letters had 
been written by Mr M, who was not a signatory. The letters also did not mention any account 
numbers to identify  which accounts they referred  to. NatWest also said it had no record  of 
receiving them anyway.  Finally, NatWest said it does not check  the signature  on every 
cheque it receives. So the investigator  did not change his mind, and this case has been  
referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Its not clear that all of the letters Mr M sent to NatWest were  received. Not all of the letters  
have the recipients address on them. But even if NatWest did receive them,  they were not 
written by a signatory. It is not in dispute  that Mr M is not, and has never  been,  a signatory, 
and so the bank did not have to do what he told it to do. It didnt have to change the 
signature mandates, and it didnt have to close the accounts.
There is one exception: NatWest eventually found one letter in its records,  which was signed  
by Mr M and two other people. This letter asks for one of the two accounts to which this 
complaint relates   and the third account  I mentioned earlier   to be closed. But none of the 
Ref: DRN93241542people who signed  that letter were signatories to the accounts to which  this complaint 
relates. They were only signatories  for the third account. So that reinforces my view that 
NatWest never received  proper instructions to close the accounts I am concerned with in this 
case.
There is therefore no evidence that NatWests signature mandates  for the two accounts are 
not accurate.  The fact that unauthorised people signed cheques  does not mean that they 
were in fact authorised, it just means  that NatWest wasnt checking  them.  (This has not 
caused any financial loss to the trust, however, because the people who signed the cheques 
were informally  permitted  to do so by Mr M, notwithstanding the irregularity that they had not 
been added  to the mandate. It has not been  alleged that the money  has been embezzled.)
I accept that the signatories have had nothing at all to do with the trust for several  years. 
Neither Mr O nor Mrs B realised that they were  still signatories, nor have they been  involved 
in running the accounts. But that does not change the fact that, as things currently  stand, 
they are still the only people  from whom the bank  can accept instructions.
For the above reasons, I do not think that NatWest has done  anything wrong. So I do not 
uphold this complaint.  But before I close, I will mention three more matters.
I have considered whether Mr O and Mrs B are still trustees, in light of what  Mr M has told 
me about the end of their involvement in the trust.  If they are no longer trustees, then they 
will not be eligible complainants. I cant rule that out, but on the balance of probabilities  
I dont think they were ever formally removed as trustees. I think that largely because Mr M 
told us he doesnt  know what  a trust deed  is. So I am satisfied that I do have jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint.
In order to transfer or close  the accounts,  Mr O and Mrs B must write to NatWest 
themselves, giving the account numbers for both accounts, and request it. Mr M cant do it 
by himself.
Finally, I recommend that Mr M should seek legal advice  perhaps from the trusts  parent 
organisation, or from the Citizens Advice Bureau   about how a trust should be run. It 
seems to me that it is currently being  administered as if it was an unincorporated 
association, but it is not. That might  help with avoiding similar problems in future.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9324154