K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by UK Insurance Limited (UKI) in looking at his 
travel insurance claim. In particular, he feels UKI caused delays and there was a lack of 
communication.
Background
Mr H and his wife went on a cruise in January 2018.  While he was away,  he experienced 
severe pain in his kidneys, stomach and groin  so he sought medical  attention on board the 
cruise ship. He was examined by medical staff on board, tests and investigations were 
carried out and he was diagnosed with abdominal and pelvic pain. Mr H paid for the cost of 
the medical treatment  and received  an invoice.
On 6 February 2018, when he returned  from the holiday, he contacted UKI to make a claim.
UKI received the requested documents on 17 July 2018. The medical certificate was 
included with this and Mr Hs doctor  detailed the condition he suffered  from as infective 
exacerbation of COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary disease).
As the medical  information UKI received was conflicting, it asked Mr H to confirm his medical 
condition before the claim could be considered. Mr H sent some information to UKI on
9 August but this wasnt the information it needed. However, at this point, it also failed to 
inform Mr H it still needed the additional  information.  Mr H chased his claim on
11 September as he hadnt heard anything and this prompted UKI to review the documents  it 
had received. On 25 September  2018,  UKI realised the issue  was with the information  on the 
medical certificate and explained this to Mr H.
Mr H wasnt happy with how the claim was being  handled by UKI and made a complaint. It 
issued a final response to Mr H on 27 October  2018, apologised for the service it had 
provided and offered  him £100  in recognition of this. It said it still couldnt consider the claim 
as Mr H needed to provide  a report from the doctor on the cruise ship to confirm the 
condition he had suffered with. It also asked for confirmation from Mr Hs own doctor about 
whether that condition  was pre-existing. UKI said once it had this information, it would review 
whether to pay the claim.
Mr H referred  the complaint to this service.  Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
concluded that UKI should pay the claim as it had the information it needed to make that 
decision. She also thought the compensation of £100 UKI offered for the way it had handled 
the claim was fair and reasonable. UKI didnt  accept the investigators assessment but after 
it reviewed the documents it had on file, it agreed to pay the claim.
The investigator issued  her further  assessment  and didnt  uphold the complaint. She said 
because UKI had now agreed to pay the claim, it didnt need to do anything further. She still 
thought the £100  compensation offered by UKI was fair.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it was 
passed to me to decide. Mr H said UKI failed  to communicate with him and caused delays so 
it should be punished for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2019 to both parties.
Ref: DRN98540332I explained it wasnt in dispute that UKI could  have handled the claim better. It had 
recognised those failings by offering Mr H £100.  It also agreed to pay the claim. So, the only 
issue that was left for me to decide was whether I thought the £100 offered to Mr H was fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said this was 
because I thought Mr H had suffered inconvenience, he was in a vulnerable  situation as he 
was having difficulty  reading documents and was getting help from a family member for this.
With all of this and the additional  delays,  I thought  this had an impact on Mr H over the 
months. I also thought  UKI could have looked at the documents it already had on file and 
decided the claim  situation  much  earlier.
I proposed therefore  to settle this complaint by asking UKI to pay a further £150 
compensation for what happened after the final response was issued. I thought Mr H had 
suffered inconvenience as a result of delays  and for the way it dealt with his vulnerable  
situation.
In response to my provisional decision,  UKI responded and in summary said:
The outcome  on the provisional decision was based on new information;
It was unaware of Mr Hs vulnerability and thats  why it hadnt taken note of it;
It assessed Mr Hs complaint up to the point of the final response and our service 
agreed it awarded fair compensation  up to that point; and
UKI hadnt had an opportunity to investigate  the additional concerns.
Mr H responded and said:
He feels appalled  at the way hes been treated and how long its taken to sort this 
out. The amount  of compensation  offered  doesnt reflect the time and frustration 
caused;
UKI requested documents which  he feels were  inappropriate, but hed supplied them 
as requested;
The compensation payment was received which he wasnt expecting and provided 
no explanation  for why it was sent to him;
The service he received was poor; and
Hed made UKI aware that he suffered from blindness.
I issued a second provisional decision on 20 January 2020 to both parties.
I further re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agreed that up until the final response  was issued  in October 2018, UKI acted fairly in 
agreeing to pay the claim and offering to pay £100  compensation  to Mr H for the 
inconvenience caused and for the delays. 
I reviewed UKIs comments, I accepted that the additional £150 compensation I proposed  
technically constituted  and would form part of a new and separate complaint. This was 
because UKI had not had the chance to consider and respond  fully on those  points before 
our involvement. For the sake of completeness  and to provide good customer service, it now 
wanted to address those issues.
Ref: DRN98540333I proposed therefore  that UKI accepted  and set up a new and separate complaint from Mr H 
regarding the customer service, the additional  delays and took account of his vulnerability, of 
which it was now aware. It proposed UKI ought to deal with the new complaint without delay.
I acknowledged Mr Hs comments.  However,  I didnt think  there  was anything in his 
comments that I hadnt already considered in my provisional decision of September 2019.
As a result of the responses received  from both parties and my consideration of those, I 
didnt propose  to uphold this complaint. Based on everything, I thought the £100 
compensation offered by UKI was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In response to the second provisional decision,  Mr H said he still didnt agree that £100 was 
adequate compensation  for the delays and service  hed received. He didnt  have any 
additional comments to what hes already  said. 
UKI didnt  respond  to my second  provisional decision. It accepted however that a new and 
separate complaint would be dealt with and it would respond to Mr H without delay. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £100 payment of compensation  made by UKI is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think UKI needs  to do anything  
further on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9854033