K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy with how 4th Dimension  Innovation Limited (4DI) dealt with his claim 
following a non-fault road traffic  accident.
background
In October  2017 Mr V was involved in a non-fault  road traffic  accident. 4DI, an Accident 
Management Company (AMC), were instructed to deal with the claim for the damage done  
to his bike. But the third-party insurer  (TPI) disputed liability  for the accident, saying they had 
an independent witness who said Mr V was at fault because hed run a red light.
Mr V said he wasnt at fault and was prepared to take the matter to court  to prove  this. 
Because of the disputed liability, 4DI told Mr V that this claim should  be dealt with by his 
insurer. But Mr V didnt  want  to do this. And, in January 2018, Mr V told 4DI that he would be 
representing himself  going forward. So they stopped  acting for him.
Mr V was unhappy that:
He felt he was forced to pay storage  and repair costs for his damaged  bike;
Hes waited three years, but 4DI failed to produce the witness statement;
4DI accused  him of running a red light and causing an accident;
4DI lied about  the witness statement, and misinformed him who the witness  was; and
4DI didnt act in his best interests and were working for the TPI.
Mr V complained to 4DI, but they didnt uphold his complaint.  So he brought  it to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service)  for investigation.
Our investigator said the TPI disputed liability for the accident,  and he understood the worry 
and upset this caused Mr V. And the ongoing  impact its had. But he said 4DI had a duty to 
consider the liability dispute, and this involved things such as discussing it with Mr V. And 
doing so didnt mean they were accusing  him of causing the accident, or that they thought he 
was lying about  what happened.
The investigator said that, when they initially discussed the potential  witness  with Mr V, 4DI 
didnt have details  of who the witness was. So, when  they said I can only assume  the 
witness was behind you at the time of the accident , this was 4DIs best  guess based on the 
limited information they had. And the investigator thought the fact that the witness  turned out 
to be a pedestrian  didnt  mean that 4DI had lied to Mr V about the witnesss  identity. So, 
while he thought  4DI couldve handled this call better, the investigator thought theyd 
accurately explained the circumstances of the disputed liability,  that they didnt have any 
concerns about  Mr Vs version of events, and what they needed to do to progress the claim.
The investigator also thought that, if the claim had been passed  to Mr Vs insurer  at this 
point, it wouldnt have  altered the facts  the liability dispute mayve ended  up with Mr V 
being held partially or fully liable for the accident,  and that, despite his preference to do so, 
there was no guarantee that the case would be taken to court. And the investigator hadnt  
seen anything to show that 4DI werent acting for Mr V, but were acting for the TPI instead.
Ref: DRN93178472The investigator also explained that, while the liability  was being disputed, 4DI were  unable 
to authorise the repairs to Mr Vs bike. This was something Mr Vs insurer  couldve done as 
he has comprehensive insurance. But Mr V refused to involve his insurer, and he asked 4DI 
to stop working  for him  taking over the claim himself.
The investigator concluded that, given  all of the relevant facts and circumstances, 4DI 
followed the correct  process and provided Mr V with the appropriate information and advice. 
So he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator and hes asked for an ombudsman  to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr V is complaining  about  took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  wouldve taken. 
As an AMC, 4DI provide  certain services  to someone who had been involved in a road traffic 
accident that wasnt their fault. For example, they would typically  arrange a hire vehicle 
where needed, organise repairs, or determine  the pre-accident value of the vehicle if its 
deemed non repairable; and then claim these  costs back from the TPI. But once a liability  
dispute occurs, its most likely that an AMC cant continue to act, and the matter is passed 
back to the insurers.
The accident  occurred  on 13 October  2017,  and 4DI were instructed the following day. As Mr 
V had been  injured in the accident, and didnt need  a hire vehicle, 4DI started  the process of 
determining the extent of the damage  to Mr Vs bike and arranging for it to be repaired.  But, 
on 2 November 2017, liability was disputed by the TPI. Ive seen the liability dispute letter 
from the TPI (received by 4DI on 8 November 2017), and this says the TPI believed [Mr V] 
went through a red light [so] we are holding [Mr V] fully responsible  for the incident  as we 
have an independent witness.
Ive also listened  carefully to the call that took place on 9 November 2017,  in which  4DI told 
Mr V about  the liability dispute. In this call they explained the TPI didnt accept liability and 
that the TPI believed  Mr V had hed run a red light, causing the accident. They also 
explained the TPI said there was a witness to the accident. 4DI said theyd asked for a copy  
of the witness statement,  but there were no time limits on when the TPI needed to produce 
this, and it could  take months before  4DI received it.
Ref: DRN93178473I appreciate Mr V didnt  believe  he was at fault for the accident, and he disputed the 
existence of an independent witness. And this has since been  proven to be the case   the 
witness never provided a statement and, in 2020,  Mr V received a pay-out for both the 
damage to his bike and his injuries.  But 4DI werent just able to take him at his word   if 
theyd done so, and gone ahead with repairing the bike, the TPI wouldve  refused to pay for 
this because they didnt accept liability for the accident. And Mr V wouldve  then been  liable 
for all the repair  costs, as well as the storage and recovery costs. 
So 4DI had two choices  refuse to act any further and tell Mr V he had to go back  to his 
insurers; or investigate the dispute and independent  witness before seeing  if they were  able 
to progress the claim. And, because Mr V didnt want to go through  his insurance, they 
initially did the latter.
During the 9 November 2017 call, Mr V told 4DI they should forget the witness  statement 
and ask for the police  report. Mr V said this was because the police attended the scene of 
the accident, and because there were no witnesses.  4DI explained that the police report 
would only have the statements from Mr V and the other driver involved,  and that it wouldnt 
comment on liability. Which was why theyd have to consider the witness statement.
4DI also explained  what the likely outcome of the claim would be if the witness was both 
independent and if their statement said Mr V had run a red light and caused the accident  
that Mr V could be held to be at fault. Mr V explained that, if he had run a red light, then he 
wouldve hit a pedestrian before the other  driver. So 4DI then suggested, based on the 
limited information they had, that the witness may have actually been behind  you.
Having listened  to this call, Im in agreement with the investigator.  While  4DI couldve 
handled it better, and they shouldnt  have speculated as to where the witness was, the 
information they gave Mr V was factually correct. And they explained what  might happen if 
Mr V was held to be at fault for the accident. But this doesnt mean that 4DI accused Mr V of 
running a red light, that they accused Mr V of causing the accident  and/or they lied about the 
witness. None of this was the case.
4DIs file notes  show that Mr V was unhappy with being accused  of causing the accident; 
and that 4DI were  investigating this, rather than just accepting  his word. And, during a 
number of calls,  Mr V said he believed 4DI were  lying to him about the witness,  and that they 
were working with the TPI against  him. But Ive not seen anything  to show  me that 4DI ever 
accused Mr V of running a red light and/or causing the accident. This was the TPI. 4DI only 
told Mr V what the TPI had said, which is what Id have expected them  to do.
The file notes also show that 4DI advised Mr V (on multiple occasions) to take the matter to 
his insurers, but he didnt want to do this because  he didnt think he was at fault for his claim. 
While I respect  Mr Vs decision, and his reasons  for not wanting to take the matter  to his 
insurers, this doesnt mean that 4DI were able to do anything more  for him  until the liability 
dispute was sorted,  they couldnt  repair his bike.
So Mr V paid the costs  of the storage and recovery of his bike  around £500  in early 
December. He then arranged for his bike to be collected from 4DI. And, in early  January 
2018, Mr V asked 4DI to stop acting for him, and he dealt with things himself.  
Ref: DRN93178474As Mr V didnt make  a claim through his insurer, he didnt get the storage and recovery  costs  
back until 2020, when  they formed part of the global settlement paid by the TPI. But, 
because 4DI werent dealing with the claim from January 2018 onwards, I cant  hold them  
responsible for how long things took. And I cant say they did anything wrong by not 
providing Mr V with copies of the police report or witness statement  4DI were  never  
provided with a copy of the police report while they were acting for Mr V, and the witness 
never provided any evidence.
I do appreciate that this was a very traumatic period for Mr V, and that his wellbeing suffered 
as a result  of the accident, and as a result of being accused of running a red light and 
causing the accident. I realise this will come as more disappointing  news to Mr V but, for the 
reasons already given, Im satisfied that it was the TPI that made these accusations as part 
of the liability dispute  not 4DI. Im satisfied that 4DI acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances, and I wont  be asking  them to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint about 4th Dimension 
Innovation Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2021.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9317847