K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Santander UK Plc will not refund any of the commission  
it received from their PPI premiums for the policy that they took out in 2005 to cover  their 
mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about commission.  Thats  
because their complaint  about the sale of the PPI policy  itself was considered by this service  
in 2015. We dismissed  that complaint because we did not receive the necessary signatures 
to allow  us to look at the complaint within a reasonable timeframe.  So I wont be commenting  
on the sale of the PPI policy in this decision, all I have considered  is whether Mr and Mrs G 
should be refunded any of the commission they paid.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. Mr and Mrs G took out their mortgage in 
2005. Based  on what we have seen and what we know about how Santander  arranged  
mortgages taken  out after October 2004,  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage.  And this means  the scope of the Consumer Credit  Act or the FCAs 
relevant rules and guidance dont apply. So Santander doesnt need  to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Ref: DRN93562602Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9356260