K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt with his financial difficulties.
background
Mr S says he took out a Barclays loan but has experienced financial difficulties following an 
accident. He says he asked Barclays to increase his overdraft in April 2018 and again  some 
months later. But it refused and should have known then he was in financial difficulties and 
couldnt repay his loan.  Mr S says Barclays has been taking the loan repayment out of his 
benefit payments  and that isnt allowed.
Barclays says it has no record of Mr S attending  a branch in April 2018  but accepts it refused 
an application to increase  the overdraft in June  2018. It says Mr S didnt make it aware of 
any financial  difficulties until the complaint  but it has now provided Mr S with details of its 
specialist debt department as well as details  of other  organisations that could help him. 
Barclays accepts it could  have dealt with a call to Mr Ss daughter more appropriately and 
has apologised and paid £100 compensation. It has also paid her £500 as a gesture of 
goodwill to assist Mr S with his rent arrears  as Mr S has gambling problems.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it and thought Barclays  
had acted fairly. The investigator  thought  Barclays couldnt have known about any financial 
difficulties unless Mr S told it about  them. The investigator thought  that a record would have 
been kept of any application being made in April 2018. The investigator also thought  that in 
June 2018 when the increase to the overdraft application was made, the loan wasnt  in 
arrears and that there were regular payments into Mr Ss account.  
The investigator thought Barclays had acted  positively  and sympathetically  by giving details 
of organisations  that could help him and by paying  the compensation and gesture of 
goodwill. The investigator also thought Barclays had tried to help by offering to add Mr Ss 
daughters to the account to assist  her father.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says the main  point of the complaint has been missed that 
loan repayments  are being taken  from benefits payments when he cant afford his rent. Mr S 
also says his mental health position  hasnt been  considered. He would like all loan 
repayments and charges  refunded from when  he says Barclays  should have known what  
was taking place  in April 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. Im satisfied that Barclays has acted  in such  a way here for the reasons I 
will explain.  And I dont  think Barclays could have known about  any difficulties Mr S was in 
until it was told about them  by Mr S or by those trying to help him.
I appreciate Mr S says he asked Barclays for an overdraft increase in April 2018 but 
Barclays says it has no record of that visit. In those circumstances it is difficult  to be sure 
what took place  but I would  have  expected  Barclays to have kept a record  of such  an 
Ref: DRN93079092application if it had been made. And I think it likely that an electronic footprint would have 
been made on its systems  such as took place  in June 2018.  So on balance I dont think an 
application was made in April 2018  and in any event even if it had then I dont think  Barclays  
would have known  about Mr Ss financial difficulties  and his gambling problems unless he 
told it about them.
I can see from Barclays records that an overdraft  increase application was made in June  
2018. But again I dont think at that stage Barclays would have known the extent of any 
gambling or financial difficulties unless Mr S told it about them  and I dont think  he did at that 
stage. I also think that when that application was made Mr S was making the loan 
repayments and keeping within agreed  account  limits.
I appreciate that Mr S with the help of his daughter did tell Barclays about his gambling  and 
financial difficulties in early 2019. I find that was when Barclays was first told about the 
extent of the problems and Im satisfied from that time it acted positively and sympathetically. 
I can see that it fairly made a gesture of goodwill payment to Mr Ss daughter  so that Mr Ss 
rent arrears  could be paid. And I can see that it provided details of its specialist department 
that could offer support  and assistance  to Mr S as well as details of other  organisations that 
could potentially help.  I can also see that Mr S has been reminded by Barclays  on a number 
of occasions about that information. But it does not appear that Mr S has spoken  to that 
department.
I appreciate that Mr S suffers from health issues. But I hope that either he or his daughter  
can speak to the team Barclays has recommended as I think  without  that contact Barclays 
cant offer any practical help. I also think Barclays has acted fairly by offering to add Mr Ss 
daughters details to his account so that she can take certain actions on her fathers  behalf.  
But I cant see that Mr S and his daughter have attended a Barclays  branch  so that can be 
achieved.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclays  has tried to assist and help Mr S but that Mr S hasnt 
made contact with Barclays specialist team. So I dont think  Barclays could do any more  in 
the circumstances of this complaint and I dont  think its made  a mistake by taking the loan 
repayments from Mr Ss account  or that it matters what the source of Mr Ss income  is. I 
hope that Mr S considers speaking to Barclays about what it can do to try and help him in 
the future.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9307909