K820x#14complaint
Mr P1 and Mr P2 complain about  National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  regarding  the 
addition of Mr P1 to Mr P2s account.  They want Mr P1 to be removed from the joint account 
and not treated as liable for an outstanding  debt.  
background
Mr P2 opened an account with NatWest in early  2015. 
In spring 2015,  Mr P1 and Mr P2 attended  a branch  of NatWest  to request that Mr P1 be 
issued a card for Mr P2s account. 
They completed a form entitled Add a New Party to an Account and checked  the option  to 
request a cash card. 
Under the section  Credit reference agencies the form detailed Your application will be 
assessed using  credit reference agency records relating to anyone with whom you have a 
joint account or similar financial association.  If this is a joint account  and such  a link does not 
already exist then one may be created now. These links will remain until you file a notice of 
disassociation at the credit reference  agencies.
The form also had a section, entitled  Joint account Overdraft Requests which  discussed  
the information which would be shared with or required of each holder when making an 
overdraft request. 
In the declarations section of the form, there  were  two alternate  choices  to check. One 
confirmed that the applicants  had read the Joint Account Overdraft  Request  section of the 
form and that the applicants  consent to only one applicant receiving overdraft pre-contract 
information. The other box confirmed that all applicants would be provided with pre-contract 
information. The first consent box was checked and both Mr P1 and Mr P2 signed and dated 
the form underneath. 
Mr P1 provided identification documentation  which was copied  and returned to him. 
Mr P1 was then added  to Mr P2s account.  
Following this, Mr P2 experienced financial difficulties and ran up a substantial  overdraft. 
Enforcement letters were  sent to Mr P1 and Mr P2 and ultimately  the account was defaulted  
in mid 2016. 
The overdraft debt was sent to debt recovery agents  who have pursued both Mr P1 and 
Mr P2 for recovery of the debt. 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 complained to NatWest in mid 2018. They said that they had never 
intended for the account to be a joint account or for Mr P1 to incur liability  on the account. 
They said that they had only wanted Mr P1 to be an additional card holder and that they 
were advised that completing this application  was the appropriate way to do this. 
They said they had not checked  the box confirming joint overdraft information  and believed  
that this was done by staff after their appointment. 
Ref: DRN96865142NatWest sent its final response letter in June  2018, rejecting the complaint and saying that 
the application form requested that Mr P1 be added as a joint account holder.  NatWest 
considered that by signing that form and applying, Mr P1 accepted joint liability  on the 
account
Mr P1 and Mr P2 were not happy  with this response  and came  to us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that there was insufficient evidence that NatWest had acted wrongly.  The investigator 
acknowledged that Mr P1 and Mr P2 felt strongly  that someone other than them  had 
checked one of the boxes  which further  discussed  the account  being a joint account, but the 
investigator noted that the boxes were  alternatives  and both of them  treated the application 
as a joint account application.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 were not satisfied  with this view and requested an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular  regard to the application  form, and those parts of that form which  
Mr P1 and Mr P2 have  disputed. 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 have  said that they did not realise that they were applying for a joint 
account and that they were advised at the time that the form they ultimately  completed  was 
the appropriate form to add a cardholder. 
I cannot give a view on what  was discussed at the time, but following any discussion that 
took place, Mr P1 and Mr P2 completed and signed  a form entitled Add  a New Party to an 
Account. 
This form discussed the creation of links between  the applicants and included  various  
references to joint account holders. It discussed  alternative choices where both options  
related to jointly held accounts and required both existing and new parties to sign the 
application. Mr P1 and Mr P2 appear  to have read the form sufficiently to give considered  
responses in response to questions about information preferences. They  then signed under  
the declarations  which  discussed joint accounts.
Mr P1 says that he did not think he could be added as a joint account holder as he did not 
have his original  passport  with him and that he provided a copy  to NatWest.  The investigator  
noted that the copy provided by NatWest  certified that it was a copy  from an original. 
Mr P1 feels  strongly that he should not have been able to become a joint account holder 
without more documentation and that this is evidence that he did not think  he was becoming 
a joint account  holder.  
Clearly I cannot say with any certainty  what took place in branch, but I do not think  that it is 
necessary to decide what ID evidence was provided. NatWest  can decide what  it requires 
from applicants and, it was evidently satisfied at the time that Mr P1 had provided sufficient 
Ref: DRN96865143ID. I do not think this issue adds anything to the question of what  Mr P1 and Mr P2 were told 
or what they understood at the time of completing  the application. 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 have  also said that they did not check  the box dealing with Joint  Account 
Overdraft requests  and that they think this option  was checked by someone  else,  after their 
application. 
Again, I cannot say with certainty what happened  in the branch, but this option being 
selected does  not make significant difference to the overall issue. If Mr P1 and Mr P2 had 
checked the box then it would look more  like they knew they were  applying for a joint 
account, but even without  this option  being  checked I think the form was clear that it was to 
add a party  to the account. 
Whilst I appreciate that the application form could  have  been more explicit  in places, I think  it 
is clear that Mr P1 was applying to be added to the account. While the term joint  may not 
have been used during  Mr P1 and Mr P2s discussion with the bank, on balance I think that 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 knew that they were applying for Mr P2s account and responsibility  for the 
account to be shared.  
Beyond this, NatWest  has confirmed that after Mr P1 was added  to the account paper 
statements were regularly  sent out, addressed to both Mr P1 and Mr P2 and sent to their 
home. 
I think even if they were not fully aware  at the point of application  that the account would be 
jointly held, it would  have  quickly  become  apparent when statements addressed to both 
account holders  arrived  at their home.  If Mr P1 had not wanted to be a joint account holder 
then he could have  raised a concern and been  removed from the account before any debt 
was incurred on the account. 
Whilst I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr P1 and Mr P2, I agree with the investigators  
view, and I cannot conclude that NatWest acted wrongly in treating Mr P1 as jointly  liable for 
the account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr P1 and Mr P2s complaint and do not ask 
National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P1 and Mr P2 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9686514