K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the premiums charged to him for his home insurance through  Anthony  
Jones (UK) Ltd. He obtained a policy through the same insurer direct for less than half the 
premium he was paying.
background
Mr M had been insured  through Anthony Jones since 2000. From 2000, when the premium 
was £302.12,  until 2005 the premium rose steeply  to £446.92.  In the years  since then and up 
until 2018 the premium  rose to £578.10.  
In 2005 Mr M advised Anthony Jones  that his house was being  underpinned. In the years  
after that it explained to him that it couldnt  get him a quote from other insurers unless he 
obtained a structural  engineers report. He was reluctant to do this because of the expense.
 In 2018 Mr M contacted  the same  insurer  direct  and got a policy  for £212.97. He 
complained to Anthony Jones believing  it to be responsible for the high premiums he had 
been paying, when it had been advising him the policy he had was competitive. He also felt 
he had been misled into thinking he would  only get insurance if he obtained the engineers  
report, which he believed  not to be the case.  He thought Anthony Jones should have 
advised him he could approach the insurer directly. He further said that his property hadnt 
been underpinned but piled.
Anthony Jones  explained  that it didnt have access to the direct policy and that the only 
insurer it dealt with who would cover subsidence  without an engineers  report  wouldnt have 
charged a competitive premium. Mr M was still dissatisfied and complained further  about  the 
delay in handling his complaint.
On referral to this service,  our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.  He observed that 
the pricing of the policy, and the choice to offer a cheaper one direct werent Anthony Jones 
responsibility. He further advised that the commission rate, of 15% on average wasnt 
outside of market rates.
Mr M was still dissatisfied and the matter has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
complaint handling
I shall address Mr Ms point about the way his complaint was handled first. I record here that 
Anthony Jones  explained  that the reason for any delay was due to Mr M insisting on a 
response from its CEO. I should also say that this services powers extend to regulated 
activities. In the case  of intermediaries/brokers  that is likely to be effecting (arranging and 
selling) a contract  of insurance. But that doesnt extend to how it handled the complaint. So I 
have no power to consider the complaints handling and wont be commenting on that in this 
decision.
sale and renewal of the policy
Ref: DRN96424312Anthony Jones  acted  on an advised  basis, that is it advised Mr M on his insurance  needs 
and arranged cover  to meet his requirements. It did this on the basis  of a fair analysis of the 
market from a wide range of insurers. It has explained  to us that it has a panel it deals with 
but may go outside  that panel  if necessary.  It charged a commission of on average 15% and 
advised Mr M it was charging  such a commission. I dont  think  it acted unreasonably in doing  
so.
As Ive observed the premium for Mr Ms policy went up quite a lot in the first four years. 
Anthony Jones  has explained that premiums  went up generally quite a lot in those years.  As 
it was so long ago, Anthony Jones no longer has records of any analysis of the market  it did 
during that period. In 2005 Mr M advised that the property  had been  underpinned.  He has 
since sought to distinguish that by saying it had been piled  rather  than underpinned. My 
understanding of underpinning  is that it's stabilisation of the foundations. Whether this is 
done by filling under the property with concrete  or by piling, it is still underpinning  in my view.
The underpinning surprisingly didnt  affect  the premium very much  as Ive noted it only 
went up by just over £100 in the whole period from 2005 up until 2018. As for whether 
Anthony Jones  analysed  the markets, it has explained it couldnt do so as few insurers  are 
willing to offer subsidence cover where  there has been underpinning  without an engineers  
report which Mr M was unwilling to get. It has demonstrated this by showing us a specimen 
analysis it did in 2014 when it obtained  quotes on the hypothetical basis  that the property 
wasnt underpinned and found that the insurer Mr M was with actually would have quoted a 
higher price  for new business.  The other companies, although some of their premiums came 
in lower if no underpinning  was present wouldnt quote for an underpinned  property without  
an engineers  report.
Mr M has obtained a policy directly from the insurer for less than half the price it quoted 
through Anthony Jones,  and with subsidence cover, it having  been advised of the 
underpinning. He also says other companies  were quite willing  to offer cover  without a 
report. Anthony Jones isnt responsible for the premiums the insurer sets. The policy it 
ultimately offered  Mr M wasnt  available through Anthony Jones as a broker.  If the insurer  
chooses to offer a policy directly, which Im informed in this case is a more  basic  policy than 
the one offered through the broker, that is a matter for that insurer.
Mr M chose  over the years  to buy his policy through a broker. He was advised that the policy 
he had was a competitive  price and it was recommended to him throughout the years.  I dont 
think Anthony Jones  misled Mr M  it advised  him that it uses a wide range of insurers  and 
as Ive said the price  stayed fairly  stable over the years. The fact that he was able to obtain a 
lower price directly reflected the fact that he wasnt paying commission  and that the price 
probably contained an element of introductory discount  to entice his business. The costs to 
the insurer of providing a policy through  a broker and direct are also different and its not 
unusual to see different  pricing practices adopted.
Thats not to say that if the premium were  vastly different, something may not have gone 
wrong here.  But the level of difference here does appear to be explained by the facts of the 
complaint. And in this complaint against Anthony Jones, I dont think it was for it to advise 
him to take his business directly to an insurer. In todays highly competitive insurance market  
there is always going to be the possibility of obtaining cheaper insurance.  That doesnt mean 
it is necessarily  as good as the policy obtained through  Anthony  Jones. And I think it was 
entitled to recommend policies through the insurers it was prepared to work  with and 
recommend. The direct policy wasnt available through a broker  and theres  no indication 
Anthony Jones  was aware that there  was likely  to be such  a significant price  differential.
Ref: DRN96424313Overall I think  Anthony Jones acted fairly. So I dont  uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9642431