K821x#15complaint
Miss R has complained that Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy. Shes also unhappy about the value it paid for her damaged car.
All references to Lloyds  include its agents. 
Miss Rs complaint was brought  to us by her mother, Mrs R, but for ease Ill refer to Mrs Rs 
comments as being Miss Rs. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July this year.  An extract from that 
decision follows: 
Miss R took out a motor  insurance policy through a price comparison website while  she still 
had her provisional licence. The website referred  her onto a broker,  who Ill refer to as A, 
who arranged her policy for her. That policy wasnt with Lloyds.
In July 2017, after she passed  her driving  test, Miss R called  A to cancel her old policy  and 
take out a new one. A arranged a policy with Lloyds which involved having a telematics or 
black box. 
Around four days  after taking  out the policy  Miss R was involved in an accident which she 
was responsible for. Her car was declared a total loss that is it was uneconomical to repair. 
Shortly after the accident Miss R received the black box in the post but as the car had been  
damaged, she couldnt  fit it onto the car. 
Around the same time A, on Lloyds behalf,  wrote  to Miss R and said it would cancel her 
policy unless the box was fitted. It later wrote to her again and said it was cancelling  the 
policy on the 7 August  2017 because she hadnt  fitted the black box onto the car. Miss R 
says she then bought a new car and took out a new policy. 
Lloyds offered Miss R £1,695 for the total loss of her car less her £450 excess. Miss R 
wasnt happy with this offer because she said shed bought the car a few weeks earlier for 
about £1,000 more.  Miss R also wasnt happy  that Lloyds cancelled her policy  without 
issuing her with a refund for the 361 days of cover shed missed out on. 
Lloyds didnt think the £1,695 offer was unfair.  It said it was the value declared on Miss Rs 
policy schedule and it was also the value on Miss Rs insurance application. It said its policy 
says, if a car is a total loss, it will pay up to the value  that is on the schedule.  It said if she 
was unhappy  with the valuation on the schedule she should complain to A. 
A said the valuation was set by the price comparison website. It also wrote  to Miss R and 
said it had sent her all the relevant documents and if she wasnt  happy with the valuation  she 
shouldve pointed this out. It added that it was right to cancel the policy  on Lloyds behalf 
because the policy terms say the policy will end if the car is declared a total loss. A also said 
that as Miss R made  a claim under the policy she wasnt entitled  to a premium  refund, as per 
the terms of her policy. 
Miss R wasnt  happy with either A or Lloyds response and complained to us. 
Ref: DRN90854682One of our adjudicators initially looked at the cancellation of the policy  against  A and said 
that a separate complaint  would have to be made to Lloyds about  the valuation.  He said that 
A should have  allowed Miss R to add her new vehicle to the existing policy before it was 
cancelled. He said Miss R should  receive a pro rata refund  of her premium, £100  in 
compensation and that any record of this cancellation should be removed from all relevant 
databases. 
A didnt  agree and said that the cancellation was carried  out as per the terms of Lloyds 
policy. It said it had sent Miss R a seven  day warning that her policy would be cancelled  but 
she didnt get in touch to say she wanted to add a replacement car to the policy and that it 
didnt know, in any case, whether Lloyds would have agreed to insure her new car under the 
existing policy. But our adjudicator didnt change  his view. 
Another adjudicator  then took over the case and looked at both the valuation  and 
cancellation complaints against A. He ultimately  said it wasnt fair to only pay the price on 
the schedule rather than the market  value for Miss Rs car as this wasnt  highlighted to her 
when she first took out the policy. He also said it wasnt fair to cancel the entire policy  after 
the car was a total loss and that Miss R shouldve been given the opportunity  to add a 
replacement vehicle onto her policy. He said Miss R should receive compensation equal to a 
pro rata refund of her premium plus interest. He also awarded Miss R £100 for her distress 
and inconvenience  and said that the cancellation should be removed from internal and 
external databases.  
A didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint was passed  to me 
and I thought that both the valuation and cancellation complaint should be against Lloyds 
instead of against A. I thought A was acting as Lloyds agent  when it cancelled the policy  
and also when it made Miss R an offer as to the value of her car. 
Lloyds didnt agree  and said that the complaint about the valuation was brought to us out of 
time and that we wouldnt be able to consider it. It said it had issued a final response letter in 
May 2018 in relation to the valuation and that Miss Rs complaint to us was made over six 
months after that response. In its response to Miss R it had said that the valuation was set 
on the schedule  issued by A who was acting for Miss R at the time so it referred  her to it. It 
said as an underwriter it wouldnt  be involved in setting the value of the car on the policy. 
I issued two provisional decisions in relation to our jurisdiction  and on whether we could look 
into the valuation  and cancellation  complaints. In both decisions I said that we could 
consider the cancellation  complaint (against  Lloyds)  but in my second  provisional decision I 
said that I thought  that the valuation  complaint  was brought  to us out of time and that there 
were no exceptional  circumstances  which meant  that we could look at that aspect of the 
complaint out of time.  After my second provisional decision, Lloyds consented to us looking 
at the valuation complaint against it, out of time. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me to decide on the merits of Miss Rs 
complaints about  the cancellation of her policy and about the valuation of her car. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ref: DRN90854683As I mentioned above, I think when A cancelled the policy it was doing so as Lloyds agent. 
This is because it is for the underwriter to bring  a policy  to an end or cancel it and if a broker 
does this it is usually  doing it on the underwriters behalf. 
Lloyds said that A was acting as Miss Rs agent when it set the value of Miss Rs car as 
£1,695 on her policy schedule. A said this price was set by the price comparison website. 
Whatever the case, I am not looking at whether the value set on the schedule was correct 
but whether Lloyds, as Miss Rs motor insurer, and any of its agents including A were  acting 
fairly and reasonably in offering Miss R £1,695 for her car. 
For the reasons  above, where I refer to Lloyds this also includes its agents  responses to 
Miss R.
the policy
Miss Rs policy  includes  a term which says that if her car is declared a total loss Lloyds will 
pay its market value  as long as this isnt more than the value specified on the insurance 
schedule. The policy also says that cover for an insured car thats a total loss will end once 
the total loss offer has been accepted.  
the cancellation
Lloyds said Miss R was allowed 14 days to install the black  box and if she didnt, her policy  
would be cancelled. Miss R took out the policy on 20 July and had the accident  on 24 July. 
She says she received  the black box after the accident and as far as I know Lloyds accepts 
this. From  what  Ive seen Lloyds wrote  to Miss R about a week after her accident  to say it 
will cancel the policy unless the black box is fitted.  And then when it cancelled the policy  it 
said the reason  was because the black box hadnt been fitted. 
As Miss Rs car was a total loss I dont think Lloyds couldve reasonably expected her to fit 
the black box and comply with its terms. For that reason, I think  Lloyds acted  unreasonably  
in cancelling the policy at that stage and for the reason it cited. 
Lloyds said Miss R didnt  say she was planning on getting a new car when it wrote to say it 
was cancelling  the policy. But Lloyds doesnt deny  that it knew  that Miss Rs car was a total 
loss when it wrote to her. So, I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable to keep the policy  
live a short  while  longer,  for example a month, and give Miss R the opportunity to add a new 
car to the policy. Miss R said she got a new car shortly thereafter and took out a new policy 
which cost about  £100 more than her Lloyds policy. 
Also, as far as Miss R was concerned,  her policy was being  cancelled because  she didnt fit 
the black box on her damaged car. And, as far as Im aware, it wasnt until after the policy  
was cancelled that Lloyds said it was also because the car was a total loss. Lloyds said 
once the policy was cancelled it couldnt be reinstated. If Miss R didnt know this was also a 
reason for the cancellation I dont  see how she could have mentioned, while  her policy was 
live, that she might  want to add a new car onto her existing policy.    
Lloyds policy says cover  will stop for that car when the total loss payment is accepted. But 
in the specific  circumstances  of this case I dont  think it was fair and reasonable for this to 
happen especially  as the policy was only days old. So, as I said above, I think the policy 
shouldve been  kept live for a short period  to allow Miss R the option to add her new car to it. 
Lloyds said there  is no guarantee  it wouldve agreed to cover  Miss Rs new car. But if it had 
discussed the possibility of adding  a new car to the existing policy  with Miss R this may have 
Ref: DRN90854684influenced her choice of car. And on balance,  I think Miss R wouldve  probably preferred to 
keep her existing policy  even if that meant  paying an additional premium for her new car 
rather than taking out a new policy. This is because she was only a few days into her policy.  
Instead shes had to pay two yearly  policy  premiums  within the space of a few weeks. 
Lloyds said because it paid a claim on the policy Miss R isnt entitled to a refund of her 
premium. I agree that this is part of the policy terms but as I said above  this doesnt 
necessarily mean its fair and reasonable for the policy to end once the claim is paid. 
For these reasons I think Lloyds acted  unreasonably in cancelling when it did and I think, in 
these specific circumstances, it shouldve  given her the opportunity  to add a replacement car 
after her old car was written off. 
Under normal circumstances I wouldve asked Lloyds whether it wouldve insured Miss Rs 
new car and, if so, asked  it to pay Miss R the premium  she paid towards her new policy  less 
what she wouldve paid had she kept her original policy, plus interest.
But due to the passage of time it might no longer be possible to find out whether the new car 
wouldve been insured by Lloyds and also as Miss Rs choice of car wasnt  influenced by 
this I think it would be fairer for Lloyds  to pay Miss R compensation for the distress  of not 
giving her the opportunity to consider adding a new car to the existing  policy and for having 
to take out a new policy only weeks after taking  out her Lloyds policy.  I think £600 would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Both our adjudicators  said that Lloyds should give Miss R a pro rata refund of her premium  
instead. I have  considered  this, but I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. This is because this would mean Miss R having  the full benefit of her policy  
for only 17 days worth of cover. Also, I think its very likely that Miss R wouldve had to pay a 
substantial additional  premium in order to keep  her policy bearing in mind  that she had a 
new car and a fault claim on her record. Both these are factors that a lot of insurers  consider 
to increase risk and attract  an increased  premium.
the valuation
Lloyds says Miss R had received the policy schedule which  said £1,695  was the value  of the 
car. It said if she wasnt happy with it she couldve cancelled her policy.  Miss R said she 
doesnt remember being asked the value of the car when she first took out the policy. I dont 
have any reason to doubt that and having listened  to the call between Mrs R and the broker  
after Miss R got her full licence, I note that she wasnt  asked the value of the car at that point 
either.
Ive seen the schedule and other documents and they say that the purchase price and the 
estimated value was £1,695. I appreciate Miss R says she bought the car for substantially 
more only weeks before and for that reason I think its unlikely that she filled this value in 
herself. I think  its more likely that this was populated automatically  by the price comparison 
website. 
The policy says Lloyds  will determine  the market value and the value of the salvage. And it 
will pay the market value  up to the amount shown on the schedule.  I think  this is quite 
significant because  if, like in Miss Rs case, the value on the schedule is lower than the 
market value, the insured will lose out by a substantial amount. I dont think this is fair. As far 
as I know this isnt an agreed value policy  and as I think this term is significant I think it 
shouldve been  brought to Miss Rs attention for example by reference to it in the key facts  
Ref: DRN90854685document. I also think it shouldve been highlighted because I think  its unusual, as most 
motor policies I am aware of pay the market  value of the car and not the value on the 
schedule if less. Ive looked at the key facts  document  and this term isnt on it. For this 
reason, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to let Lloyds rely on it and I think  it 
should pay Miss R the market value of her vehicle.
From what  Ive seen, when Lloyds engineers inspected Miss Rs car they valued it at 
£3,040. When  considering  the market value of a car we look at the motor trade guides in 
order to determine  whether  an offer made was fair and reasonable. We feel that the guides  
provide persuasive  evidence as they are based  on likely sales prices. Lloyds valuation is 
based on one of the trade guides.  We have looked at some  of the others  and from what  I 
have seen, Lloyds  valuation is at the higher  end of the range. So I think it is a fair and 
reasonable valuation. 
It follows that I think Lloyds should pay Miss R the difference  between  the market value of 
her car at the time (£3,040) less her excess of £450 and the £1,245  its already paid plus 
interest. I understand  that Miss R didnt keep the salvage so the salvage value shouldnt  be 
deducted from the market value.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above Im considering upholding this complaint. Society of Lloyds must do 
the following:
Pay Miss R £1,345 which is the difference  between the market value of £3,040 less the 
policy excess of £450 less the £1,245 it already paid. It must  also pay simple interest on 
this sum at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of Miss Rs claim to the date it makes 
payment.
Pay Miss R £600  for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Remove the cancellation  from any internal and external databases. It must also issue 
Miss R with a letter saying that her policy was cancelled in error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Lloyds responded to my provisional  decision to say it had nothing further to add. Miss R 
responded to say that she accepted my provisional  decision. As neither party has raised 
anything new I decided  not to change any of the findings I made  in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im upholding this complaint.  Society of Lloyds must do the following:
Pay Miss R £1,345 which is the difference  between the market value of £3,040 less the 
policy excess of £450 less the £1,245 it already paid. It must  also pay simple interest on 
this sum at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of Miss Rs claim to the date it makes 
payment.
Pay Miss R £600  for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. It must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss R accepts my final 
Ref: DRN90854686decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Remove the cancellation  from any internal and external databases. It must also issue 
Miss R with a letter saying that her policy was cancelled in error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken  off. It should also give Miss R a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9085468