K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) paid a cheque which shed 
asked them to stop previously on two occasions.
 
background
Miss C came  to us as she was unhappy with the response she received from NatWest to her 
complaint about  a cheque  dated  21 December 2018 being paid from her account on 1 May 
2019.
NatWest told her the bank  hadnt made  an error. The cheque was originally returned in 
January 2019  as there were insufficient funds in her account. It was later represented  by the 
payee and paid at that time as there  were  sufficient funds in the account. NatWest said they 
had no record of the cheque being  stopped.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found there was no evidence to show 
NatWest had been contacted by Miss C to stop the cheque  which  had originally been 
returned unpaid,  due to the lack of funds in her account. But as the cheque was represented  
at a later date, when  there were funds  available - and there wasn't  a stop on the cheque  
she didnt think NatWest  had done  anything wrong  by allowing this to debit Miss Cs account.
Miss C didnt agree. She told us she felt there  were several times for the cheque to be 
stopped. And there was no explanation as to why it was not done  on the two occasions 
shed requested NatWest  to do it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion  - so I wont  repeat it here. Theres no dispute Miss C wrote  this cheque on 
21 December 2018. Or that it was returned unpaid in 4 January 2019. What  is disputed is 
whether NatWest should have paid that cheque on 1 May 2019 when it was represented by 
the payee. Miss C says they shouldnt as she asked them to stop it on two occasions. Firstly 
when she cancelled it in a webchat shortly  after it was returned unpaid  in January 2019 and 
secondly when  she called  the bank  when she discovered the money  had left her account. 
NatWest say they have  no records of a request to stop the cheque.
Although I agree with analysis from investigators second view - that it wasnt possible to 
stop the cheque on its representation  as the money  had already left her account on 1 May 
2019 - Ive looked very carefully  at both instances Miss C has raised.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete  or inconclusive and I cant  know exactly  
whats happened, Ive decided whats more  likely  to have happened,  at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities. 
In both the records from the bank and the information Miss Cs sent us theres nothing to 
support that Miss C cancelled this cheque early  in 2019 as she says. In relation to the 
second request  to stop the cheque Ive listened to calls between Miss C and NatWest. The 
first is from 2 May 2019, when the money had already left the account. Miss C called 
Ref: DRN93517122NatWest that day as she became aware  the cheque cleared her account. NatWest treated  
the cheque as possible fraud  or counterfeit. Based on the information Miss C gave them in 
that call I cant say that was the wrong  approach. In the call from NatWest on 7 May 2019 
when told of the cheque payee, its earlier return unpaid  and its representation and payment 
now Miss C is asked  a number of times if that rang any bells. And shes very clear in the call 
that it doesnt. 
If Miss C thought she had stopped this cheque  in January 2019, in the circumstances she 
told us about,  Id expect the details given to her on 7 May 2019 to trigger some memory. At 
the very least Id expect  Miss C to raise  her point that she thought  shed cancelled  a cheque 
for the same amount  to the same  payee in January 2019 but she doesnt.  I find that lack of 
recollection - when given  such  details - surprising. So overall,  on balance, Im not satisfied 
Miss C did ask NatWest to stop the cheque on two occasions as she says.
Overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I cant say NatWest did anything  wrong  when they 
paid this cheque. So Im not going  to ask them to do anything  further. Given  how strongly  
Miss C feels about what happened  she may want to pursue the matter further through other 
routes or against  other  parties. But my decision brings to an end what  we  in trying to 
resolve her dispute with NatWest informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints 
Miss C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9351712