K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1997 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI, Bank of Ireland had to make  it clear  to Mr and Mrs M that they had a 
choice about it and get their agreement before adding it. Not all of the information from the 
sales still available but, from what Ive seen, Bank of Ireland did enough in this regard. That 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  take PPI at the start of their mortgage in 1986, or until several years  
later, also suggests  to me they were aware  they didnt have to have  it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Bank  of Ireland  gave Mr and Mrs M any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to them. This means Bank  of 
Ireland didnt have  to check  if the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs M. But it did have to make 
sure they got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, it doesnt look like they were  affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
cover. And, although theyve told us Mr M was entitled to some  sick pay and that they had 
some other means they could have used for a limited time to make their repayments if they 
werent earning, I think the PPI would still have been  useful  for them  if something went 
wrong.
I say that not least because a mortgage  is a significant financial commitment and Mr and 
Mrs Ms home could have been at risk if they couldnt make  their repayments. So I think they 
would have valued the extra protection the policy provided. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable for them, despite what theyve said about the cost.  So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking it out.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, including that they didnt need the 
PPI because of their circumstances and good  health. But the PPI covered unforeseen risks, 
and there  was no guarantee Mr and Mrs Ms situation would remain the same going forward.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether Bank 
of Ireland treated them unfairly. 
Bank of Irelands  told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Bank of Irelands been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
Ref: DRN95240682the commission  so I dont think Bank of Ireland treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9524068