K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about Santander  UK Plc (Santander) regarding a payment she made 
being sent to the wrong account. She feels that this mistake has caused her significant 
consequences including that Santander believed that she had broken a repayment  
agreement and decided  to commence repossession proceedings.  She wants  Santander to 
acknowledge it made a mistake, and for Santander  to agree a repayment plan with her. She 
also wants compensation for the stress caused  to her. 
background
Mrs F and Mr P jointly  own a property which was subject of an interest only mortgage  with 
Santander. Mrs F also holds a credit card account with Santander. 
The interest only mortgage term came to an end in 2016, leaving the capital  of the mortgage 
due to be repaid.  
Mrs F and Mr B were not in a position to repay  the capital at that time. Santander allowed an 
extension of the interest only term until late 2017. 
Mrs F and Mr B were unable to make an alternative  arrangement with Santander to repay 
the capital due on the mortgage. 
Santander allowed  a period where it did not enforce  the debt, in order  to allow Mrs F and Mr 
B some breathing space and to allow Mrs F and Mr Bs circumstances to settle. 
In 2018, Santander contacted Mrs F, advising that their arrears were increasing and a 
repayment plan was needed,  otherwise Santander would have to pursue debt recovery  
proceedings. 
Discussions continued  between Mrs F and Santander about an arrangement but a formal 
repayment agreement  was not reached.  
In January 2019, Mrs F contacted  Santander,  offering to make 3 monthly  repayments  of 
£176.73 to begin reducing the debt. 
This was acknowledged  by Santander, but not formally agreed as a repayment plan because 
Santander did not have evidence of Mrs Fs income and expenditure. 
In February 2019,  Mrs F attended a branch of Santander and paid in a cheque for £76.73. 
It appears that the cashier receiving  the cheque believed this was for payment into Mrs Fs 
credit card account, and so allocated the cheque  to that account, writing the credit card 
account number  on the back of the cheque. 
The cheque was paid into the credit card account  in early February 2019. Details of the 
payment were then included on Mrs Fs credit card statement. 
Mrs F then made a further  payment in March 2019, for £167.73. This was credited to the 
mortgage account. 
Ref: DRN95436742In the meantime, Santander had contacted  Mrs F saying  that repossession proceedings 
would continue. 
Mrs F was understandably  very worried and distressed about this. She felt that the cheque  
she had paid in in February 2019 had been lost. 
She made a complaint  to Santander and Santander  responded. 
Santander ultimately identified, around May 2019,  that the cheque had been  paid into the 
credit card account. Santander  subsequently transferred the payment over to the mortgage 
account. 
Mrs F was not happy with this response and felt that Santander had made a significant  
mistake and that this had triggered the repossession  process. She therefore contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that, based  on the evidence, it was not clear that Santander was wrong to pay the 
cheque to Mrs Fs credit card account, but in any event  it had told her about  this in her 
February credit card statement.  He also considered that the payment going  to the wrong 
account was not the cause of Mrs Fs agreement  failing or the repossession proceedings 
being started.  He therefore did not think that Santander had done anything  significantly 
wrong and did not recommend the complaint  be upheld. 
Mrs F did not accept that view, and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must set out that I recognise that Mrs F has had a considerable amount to deal with 
in the last few years.  She has described periods of illness and disability, caring  
responsibilities, and disputes regarding  the care of family members. This must  all have been 
very difficult for her and has no doubt  impacted upon her ability to meet  her mortgage 
requirements. 
The situation  with Mrs Fs mortgage is complicated, and has been going on for a long time. 
The actions Santander has taken in relation to the mortgage are not the subject of this 
complaint, and have  been  looked  at elsewhere. This complaint concerns whether Santander 
lost Mrs Fs cheque  in February,  and whether  this lost cheque caused possession  
proceedings to restart.  I have restricted my consideration to Santanders actions in relation 
to that cheque. The background  of the mortgage  is, however, important context.  
I should also set out the role of this service. We look at complaints raised by consumers and 
consider if there is evidence of a business doing  anything wrong towards  that individual.  
Where there is evidence of mistakes, we look at what effect those errors have had on the 
individual, and where appropriate we may award compensation to put matters  right.  
I have to look at what  the business did, and whether this was wrong in the circumstances 
which applied, and which it was aware  of, at the time. I cannot consider the events with the 
benefit of hindsight. 
Ref: DRN95436743By the end of 2018, Mrs F was in significant debt with Santander. The capital of her 
mortgage was due and she was more  than £3000 in arrears  on the interest only repayments. 
Mrs F reached an informal  agreement with Santander to make 3 monthly repayments of 
£176.73. 
Mrs F attended the branch to make  a payment, but made an error in the amount of the 
cheque, so that the amount paid in was £100  less than the agreed  amount. 
I do not doubt that Mrs F intended this payment to be put towards her mortgage debt, but I 
cannot be certain of what happened, or what was communicated,  at the counter  that day. 
It is clear that, whatever was said at the counter, the credit card account number was written 
on the back of the cheque  and it was routed towards  her credit card account.  I think it is 
likely that the number was written  on the cheque at the time of paying in.
I cannot determine what happened  during the conversation as Mrs F paid in the cheque and 
do not have evidence to demonstrate that it is more  likely that Santander,  rather  than Mrs F, 
made the mistake. Consequently, I cannot  say that I am satisfied Santander  was wrong  to 
send the cheque to Mrs Fs credit  card account.  
Santander did then confirm the payment to Mrs Fs credit card in her February  2019 credit  
card statement.  Mrs F has indicated  that she doesnt always  read her post but that does not 
affect whether  it was sent. In my view, Santander acted reasonably in adding  the payment to 
the statement  and providing this to Mrs F. Had she seen this, she would have known what 
had happened  to the cheque. 
Mrs F then made a second  payment towards  the mortgage account  which,  due to an error in 
the order of the numbers,  was also for less than the agreed amount. 
Santander considered that the agreement had failed and recommenced its action. 
I understand why Mrs F feels  that the February  cheque being paid into the wrong account 
made Santander think that the agreement had failed, but I do not think that this is the case. 
Even if the cheque had been allocated to the correct account, the amount of that cheque 
was insufficient  to meet the agreement  and it would have broken the agreement, even if it 
had reached the correct  account. 
In the circumstances, I think that Santander would have made  the decisions it has made  
even if the error with the February  cheque had not happened. 
I accept though, that it has made  a difference  to Mrs F, and that she has been caused worry 
about tracing where the cheque went.  She feels  that Santander took too long to identify this, 
and she had to investigate herself, with the bank which  issued the cheque. 
I accept that Santander did not identify what had happened during its correspondence  
before May 2019, but, as it had identified the payment in the credit card statement  in 
February, I dont consider  that it was lost, and I cannot conclude  that Santander delayed  in 
reporting to Mrs F where the cheque had gone. 
Ref: DRN95436744I realise that Mrs F will be disappointed by this decision, but for the reasons set out above,  I 
do not think that Santander  has done anything significantly wrong, and I do not uphold  Mrs F 
and Mr Bs complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Santander UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9543674