K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the benefit amount he received from Chubb  European  Group SE after 
claiming on his personal accident insurance  policy.
background
Mr J was employed by the armed forces. He was diagnosed with non-freezing  cold injury to 
his hands and feet in early 2017 and although, initially,  he was able to undertake  some  
duties that didnt require him working  outside  during certain periods of the year,  his 
symptoms didnt improve. This resulted in him being medically discharged  from the armed 
forces in 2018.  
Mr J made  a claim on his personal accident insurance policy (the policy).  His claim was 
accepted and he received  two payments of £16,000.
The first payment was due to permanent total disablement by medical discharge as Mr J had 
suffered bodily injury  which occurred  whilst  engaged in military activities and £16,000 was 
the maximum amount  the policy would pay out under this section. This payment isnt 
something Mr J has complained about.
The second  payment was made for permanent partial disablement. Mr J is unhappy with the 
amount thats  been paid to him under this section of the policy; he thinks it should  be much  
higher. So he complained  to our Service. Our investigator concluded that Chubb hadnt done  
anything wrong  so didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Mr J didnt agree and raised some further  points  in reply. His complaint has now been 
passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make  a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
I know Mr J will be very disappointed with my decision and I can see that he has been 
through a very difficult time over the past few years. However, I dont think Chubb has 
unfairly applied  the policy  terms when calculating  the benefit  owed to him under the 
permanent partial  disablement section of the policy in the particular circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why.
The policy says in the event of Mr J sustaining an accidental bodily injury Chubb will 
compensate him in accordance with the benefits set out in the schedule  of benefits. 
Its not disputed  that Mr J suffered an accidental bodily injury  as defined by the policy.
Permanent partial disablement is defined  as a disablement which in the opinion of the 
underwriter will in all probability exist for the remainder  of Mr Js life and (other  than 
specified impairments which Im satisfied  Mr J doesnt meet the policy definition of) payable  
in accordance with the relevant percentage of the sums listed  in the schedule of benefits.    
Ref: DRN94137202Mr J had the benefit of the supreme policy. The schedule of benefits  (the schedule) sets out 
the maximum benefit for permanent partial  disablement as £160,000 and Mr J could receive 
a percentage  of that amount depending on the nature of his disablement.
Having looked  at the impairments set out at items 2 to 10 of the schedule and given the 
available medical  evidence, Im satisfied that Chubb  has fairly and reasonably  concluded 
that Mr Js disablements, although  serious,  dont amount  to the type of impairments  listed.  
For example, the medical evidence doesnt support  that the non-freezing cold injury Mr J has 
been diagnosed with has resulted in loss of two of more  limbs, permanent loss or loss of use 
of four fingers and thumb of either  hand  or permanent loss or loss of use of either hand. Nor 
does it support that Mr J has suffered permanent loss or loss of use of all or any of his toes 
on either foot.
So Im satisfied that Chubbs decision to assess Mr Js claim under item 11 of the schedule  
is fair and reasonable. This says Mr J will receive  a benefit for:
Any permanent partial disablement not stated  under items 2-10 up to a maximum of 
 £16,000
Chubb has calculated  the benefit payable to Mr J under item 11 of the schedule  as £20,800. 
It says thats based on its medical officers opinion that Mr J has lost 10% use of each of his 
hands and 10% use of his feet / toes.  Its then considered 10% of the amount Mr J wouldve 
received for these  impairments under item 10 of the schedule.
Its possible that Mr J is right when he says hes lost more than 10% use of his hands and 
feet as a result of non-freezing cold injury. However,  as the total benefit  he can receive  
under item 11 of the schedule  is capped  at £16,000, even if the percentage loss of his hands 
and feet is indeed higher, that wont increase the monetary benefit under item 11.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Js comments including what he says about  obtaining a 
second opinion  to assess the nature of his non-freezing cold injury  and the extent of his 
disablement - and that similar policies  cover this condition as a standalone injury. However, 
based on the medical evidence Chubb has relied on  and in the absence of any further 
medical evidence  from Mr J disputing the impact  his injuries have had on him - I dont  think  
Chubb has acted  unreasonably by not obtaining  a further medical opinion to see whether 
Mr J met any of the requirements  set out at items  2  10 of the schedule. Im also satisfied 
that even if other policies  cover his injury as a standalone condition  (which I havent seen 
any evidence of), I think Chubb has acted fairly and reasonably by considering Mr Js claim 
in accordance with the particular terms and conditions of the policy he had the benefit of. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 5 January  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ref: DRN94137203ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413720