K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains Temple  Finance Limited  (Temple) trading as PerfectHome recorded a 
default on his credit file without notifying him. He asks the default be removed.
background
On 15 August 2015, Mr W took out a hire purchase agreement with Temple to acquire  a 
television. The agreement  was for a total of £1140.88 repayable over 104 weeks  at £10.97 
per week.
Mr W kept up with his payments but around  June  2016 he started missing payments and 
after failing to make  contact with Mr W, Temple recorded a default on his account. 
When Mr W checked his credit  file in 2018,  he noticed  a number, of late payment markers 
and a default notice, unhappy that this was having an ongoing impact  on his credit  rating  he 
complained to Temple.
Temple acknowledged when the account  was defaulted it failed to send the notification to 
Mr W. It said the account had been passed to a third party for collection and agreed the 
account should show a zero balance. It contacted  the credit  agency to update the account 
status but said it wouldnt remove the default,  as was an accurate reflection of Mr Ws 
account.
Mr W remained unhappy and so he asked  this service to look into things for him. An 
investigator looked at all the information provided  by Temple and Mr W. He concluded  that 
Mr Ws account was in arrears and so the default was an accurate reflection. But, he noted 
Temple had failed in its obligations to send  the appropriate notification  and it also hadnt 
accurately reported  passing Mr Ws account to a third party for collection nor applied  a zero 
balance until Mr W complained. He acknowledged  this had caused Mr W distress  and 
inconvenience and suggested Temple pay him £100  in recognition  of this.
Temple disagreed.  It said it didnt agree not sending  a default notice caused  Mr W distress 
and was concerned  paying compensation would set a precedent  and appeared to reward 
Mr W for being  in arrears. It asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Both parties  have failed  to meet their obligations here. Mr W has failed to maintain his 
contractual payments on his hire purchase agreement with Temple  and Temple  has failed to 
comply with its statutory obligation  to notify  Mr W if its intent to record a default on his 
account.
Ref: DRN94710022Before terminating  Mr Ws agreement, it was essential for Temple  to serve a notice of default 
first. By its own admission  Temple failed to serve the notice and so I must conclude  that the 
agreement was not properly terminated.  That is an error. So, Im now required to consider 
the impact of that error.  To do that I have carefully  considered Mr Ws payment history  and 
his contact history from the information  Temple have provided.
The purpose of a default notice is to give the debtor an opportunity  to remedy  the default by 
paying all arrears by the deadline in the notice.  If the arrears  are paid on time,  then the 
default is treated  as never having  happened. But, even  after Mr W was told about  his missed 
payments, and Temple sent him numerous  letters requesting he contact them, he not 
attempted to do so and still didnt pay his arrears.
I appreciate Mr W has explained a collector used to call at his home, but then stopped  
calling and his local store closed sometime in 2017  but that doesnt negate Mr Ws 
responsibility to meet  his contractual payments under his agreement.
Mr Ws last payment to Temple was in June  2016  and so he missed  in excess  of 40 weekly 
payments before Temple reported a default  on his credit file
The payment history suggests to me that even if Mr W had received  a default notice, this 
would not have made any difference. I cant rule out the possibility that it would have done, 
and that he would have cleared the arrears, but on the balance of probabilities  that does not 
seem likely to me. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to require Temple  
to remove the default  marker. It accurately reflects the condition  of his account.
But, Temple  has also failed in its obligation to send the appropriate notification and it didnt 
accurately report a zero balance when it passed Mr Ws account to a third party for collection 
until Mr W complained. I agree that in failing to meet its statutory obligations this did cause 
Mr W distress and inconvenience. 
I dont agree that in making an award this sets any sort of precedent  or can be seen  as an 
award for being  in arrears. Each case is looked  at on its individual  merits and the role of this 
service is to look at whats gone  wrong. If a business has made errors, and could have done 
things differently, what steps it should  take to put things right. Im persuaded £100 is a fair 
and reasonable recognition of these  errors  and the impact they had on Mr W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I direct Temple Finance  Limited to
Pay £100 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9471002