K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage  
was dealt with by Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance  Company Limited (LV).
background
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs E reported a claim  to LV because  they had discovered that the 
carpet in their hall was very wet. LV agreed  to carry out a trace and access investigation to 
discover the source of the leak.  This proved to be difficult and it took a while both to trace the 
leak. LV appointed contractors to carry out the necessary water damage  repairs. In February 
2018 a contractor came to lay a new damp proof  course (DPC).  However the wrong mix was 
used and it didn't  dry properly. The DPC later had to be re-laid. That was in March 2018.
In May 2018  a further leak was discovered in the utility  room. It took several  visits to find the 
source of this leak, and Mr and Mrs E were advised to carry out various works like lagging 
the pipe. Eventually  it was traced  to a cracked  pipe which was repaired under their home  
emergency cover.
Mr and Mrs E were  disappointed with the slow progress of the repairs, particularly as they 
had to constantly chase the contractors. There were several missed appointments. LV 
initially offered £75 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused, which it 
agreed to increase to £350  in June 2018.
The repairs  continued  but Mr and Mrs E had issues with the quality of the work,  particularly 
in the bathroom and the decorating, which had to be redone. The works were eventually  
completed in October 2018. LV agreed  to pay a further £225  for delays, a wasted 
appointment, some snagging issues and a delay in recognising an incorrect  electric bill 
settlement. Thus it paid a total of £575 compensation.
On review by this service  our investigator  thought that LV should  increase its compensation 
payment to a total of £1,000. Mar and Mrs E weren't happy with this as they didnt feel it 
reflected the distress  and inconvenience  they had suffered. LV thought  that its payments so 
far were reasonable compensation.  
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should remind the parties that this service  is an alternative dispute  resolution service 
whereby we try to resolve matters informally between  the parties. Our awards of 
compensation are intended to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience. But in 
assessing this I have to look at matters  as a whole rather than make awards for each and 
every instance of bad or poor service.
So in this case I note that the water damage  to Mr and Mrs Es home took a year to sort out. 
Even taking  into account that there  were  initial difficulties  in tracing the leak,  I think  this was 
too long, by several months. I think that the fact that no loss adjuster was appointed and Mr 
and Mrs E had to deal with contractors directly caused them  additional inconvenience. There 
Ref: DRN90486972were several instances of missed appointments, a failure to keep informed, and the 
contractors often failed  to answer  emails and telephone calls on a timely basis. 
From LVs file it appears that when it was contacted  its claims handlers  did their best to sort 
things out, but I think the lack of someone  like a loss adjuster  co-ordinating  things did add to 
the delays in completing the work.
I think Mr and Mrs E were  particularly inconvenienced by the installation of the DPC.  This 
was initially laid on 27 February. It was in the hallway  which  gave access to all the rooms in 
the house. They were assured that the DPC would dry out in a few hours.  Yet it didnt, 
instead it remained wet and sticky. Mr and Mrs E tried very hard not to spread it to the 
carpets. Initially LV attempted to dry it out by using  dryers. But it was then recognised that it 
would have to be re-laid, which  was done  on 9 March.  Mr and Mrs E have pointed out that 
during this time they had to access their sitting room via outside doors. During  the cold 
weather at the time I think this whole issue caused them  particular inconvenience.
Then the problems with the utility room  occurred which,  as Ive said took several  visits to sort 
out. Again  whilst sometimes leaks can be problematic to detect, it appears  to have been 
relatively simple problem eventually to resolve.
Mr and Mrs E then had several snagging  issues, particularly the decorating.  it was patchy 
and some areas werent painted. They also pointed out that LV had made  an incorrect  
settlement for the electricity used   it took several months for this to be sorted out, which  
added to the inconvenience and frustration caused to Mr and Mrs E.
With LV having paid Mr and Mrs E compensation of £350 for upset caused by 
communication issues up until June 2018, its disappointing to see that the same issues of 
missed appointments,  failure to inform and poor work continued  after that time. I think  LVs 
failure to put matters  right, even though it had paid compensation, would have been even 
more frustrating form Mr and Mrs E and should  be taken into account in the compensation 
award. Ive noted  that the investigator proposed a total compensation award  of £1,000,  
meaning a further  £425 should be paid by LV. I think thats  reasonable. As Ive said Ive 
looked at this issue as a whole, and the sum takes  into account the issues suffered by 
Mr and Mrs E in this case and is in line with awards  we have made  in similar cases.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs E a total of £1,000 compensation. As £575 has been  paid,  it must  pay a further  
£425.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9048697