K820x#14complaint
Mr W, the director of V, a limited  company,  complains that Covea Insurance plc declined  Vs 
claim for damage to its vehicles caused by an employee.
background
V is a car dealership  and held a motor trade internal risks  policy with Covea. In early 2018, 
Mr W submitted  a claim for damage caused  to several vehicles by an employee who drove 
one of Vs cars without authority and in the process  damaged several other  cars.
Covea declined the claim on the grounds  the damage was caused by an attempted theft, 
which is excluded under the terms of the policy. The insurer  did offer V compensation of 
£100 for the delays in processing  the claim and other customer  service  issues.
Mr W believed  the claim was wrongly  declined so brought this matter to our service. One of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. Whilst she did not think the exclusion of attempted 
theft applied, she considered another exclusion, damage caused by a malicious act of an 
employee, did apply.  And given the employee had taken the car without consent, was 
underage and had no driving licence, she concluded the damage was caused by a 
malicious act. So our investigator said Covea  acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators view. So the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, whilst  I appreciate  
this is a difficult situation for Mr W and his company,  given the circumstances of the case, 
Im not going  to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The insurance policy, together with the schedule, sets out what  is covered under the policy  
including the exclusions that apply. To claim under the policy, where vehicles are kept in an 
open space - as they were in this case - the insurer will pay for loss of or damage to any 
insured vehicles caused, amongst other things, by theft occurring while  at the business 
premises.
The damage in this case was caused  by an employee  the employee took the car without 
consent and took the keys from a cabinet  that he was not authorised to access. So Im 
satisfied that under  these circumstances this can be covered by the policy as damage 
caused by theft. I need to now consider whether what, if any, exclusions apply.
I know the insurer initially tried to say the claim would not be met because  it was an 
attempted theft which is an excluded  risk where cars are kept in the open. But like the 
investigator, I think the actions of the employee can be correctly classified as theft given 
the car was property  belonging to another (V) and had been taken without consent. Further, I 
think this particular exclusion is intended  to apply where damage is caused in the process of 
attempting to steal the car. In this case the damage  had been  caused once the car had been 
stolen. So Im satisfied  this particular exclusion does not apply.
Ref: DRN93965182However, the insurer maintains the damage is still not covered under the policy  due to 
another exclusion  specifically,  where  the damage  was caused by a malicious act of an 
employee. So Ive considered whether it is reasonable for Covea to decline the claim on 
these grounds.
This exception reads that V is not covered for any loss or damage to the insured
vehicle arising  from the malicious act of any employee. There  is no dispute this damage 
was caused by an employee. So the only issue for me to decide is whether the actions of the 
employee can be considered malicious  and, therefore, excluded  under the policy  terms.
As the policy does  not define  a malicious  act, our services approach is to apply the usual 
meaning of the term. I know Mr W says that as the employee  was merely taking the car with 
the intention of joy riding, he (the employee) was not acting maliciously as he did not have 
a desire or intention  to cause harm. But a malicious act would also exist if the act was done 
deliberately, without just cause  or excuse, and with a reckless  indifference  as to whether it 
was likely to cause harm,  distress or material damage to property.
I think the actions  of the employee were deliberate and without just cause.  The employee 
took the keys to the car without consent   this is set out in the police report and is admitted 
by Mr W. The employee didnt need  the car keys to do his particular job. He only had access  
to the keys due to the cabinet  being left open  so that other  (authorised)  employees could 
access car keys during  working hours.
 
By taking  the car when he was inexperienced to drive, was underage with no driving licence  
and without authority  from the owner  to drive the car, I think the employee was recklessly 
indifferent to the likelihood he would cause harm,  distress or material  damage to property.
 
So I think the reasonable inference from all these facts is that the act was malicious,  was 
caused by an employee and is therefore  excluded under the policy  terms. Overall,  Im 
satisfied that it is reasonable for Covea  to decline Vs claim under this exclusion.
I know there were delays with Covea  reaching its decision. But I can see that because  of the 
circumstances of the case,  it needed  to carry out a more in-depth  investigation  which was 
part of the reason for the delay. The insurer accepts it failed to return a phone call to Mr W 
so offered compensation of £100 for this and the delays in reaching  its decision. Overall, I 
consider this to be reasonable  compensation for these customer  service issues. 
Although I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about this matter, given the circumstances 
as Ive described above, I will not be asking Covea to meet Vs claim.
Ref: DRN93965183my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mr W on behalf of 
V, to accept or reject  my decision before 24 February 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9396518