K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain  that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) alongside their mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr S and Mrs S applied for a mortgage  in-branch. At the same time they also took 
out PPI designed to protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mr S couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment  - the policy was in Mr S sole name.
The policy cost just over £30 a month and it provided a monthly  benefit  amount of around 
£520 upon a successful  claim. And it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  But said Mr S and Mrs S would get 
back some  of what they paid for the policy because  Santander received a high commission.
Mr S and Mrs S disagree, so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  Mr S and Mrs S mis-sale complaint, so they wont get back  
everything they paid for the policy because:
I think, more likely than not Santander  made  it clear that Mr S and Mrs S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this.
Mr S and Mrs S say they werent  made aware  that the policy was attached to their 
borrowing. And while I accept theres very little by way of information and paperwork 
available from the time to tell me what happened - and this isnt surprising  given how 
long ago things  happened  Im not persuaded by what  they say. I say this because the 
PPI payment  was a separate  payment debited from their bank account,  so it would have 
required a separate  direct  debit mandate to have been signed. I find it unlikely they 
would have given  their signature to something without asking or knowing what  they were 
signing for. And Im also mindful that Santander  had a record that Mr S contacted  the 
insurer in 2004  following  his separation from his partner to discuss  what he could do with 
the policy. This doesnt strike me as being  the action of someone who didnt know  he 
had the cover.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example Mr S wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover such  as for existing medical  conditions or unusual employment  circumstances 
and they seem to have had a need  for the cover
Ref: DRN91469472  for example they had a young family and Mr S told us he didnt have any sick pay 
other than statutory sick pay given his employment  length of service.
While Mr S and Mrs S say they had savings they couldve relied on, the existence of 
these doesnt  make the policy  unsuitable  in their circumstances. The policy  would have 
paid out regardless  of these and for up to 12 months at a time allowing them to keep 
their savings to meet  other essential and ongoing household and family commitments as 
necessary.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Ive found  they likely  chose  to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong for the reasons I outlined above. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
This all means Santander doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and 
Mrs S.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S and Mrs S about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S and Mrs S have said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S and Mrs S any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  to Mr S and Mrs S 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
In this case Santander should  pay back to Mr S and Mrs S the extra  they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Santander should also pay Mr S and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr S and Mrs S have  not lost out as a 
result of taking out PPI to the extent  they should  get back everything they paid for it.
Ref: DRN91469473But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S and Mrs S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium as Ive detailed above   if its not 
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9146947