K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) was wrong to apply a 
damage charge  when  he returned a car that he had been supplied with under a hire 
purchase agreement  (Agreement).
background
In November 2014 Mr P entered into an agreement  for a new car costing £18,928.44.  
Everything else being equal  Mr P undertook to pay BMWFS 47 monthly  payments of 
£268.17 followed by 1 monthly  payment of £9,028.00  making a total repayable of 
£21,631.99.
In October  2018 Mr P took the decision to voluntary terminate the agreement and return  the 
car to BMWFS  as was his right.
Following the cars collection BMWFS charged  Mr P £578.64 for excess miles travelled and 
£301 for damage  a total of £879.64.
Mr P paid both charges.  Mr P accepts liability for the £578.64 excess mileage charge but not 
for the £301 damage charge.
As well as disputing  BMWFS right to charge him £301 for damage, Mr P says he was 
pressured into paying the sums BMWFS was seeking so as to avoid adverse information  
being recorded against him with one or more credit  reference agencies.  
In respect of the damage charge Mr P says that this damage would have had no material  
effect on the cars value and one of the alloy wheels had manufacturer  corrosion  around  the 
centre.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr P didnt agree and so his complaint has been  passed to me for review  and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Im only considering Mr Ps complaint about  the £301  
damage charge  given  that he confirmed to our service (at the outset) that [he] accepts[s] the 
[excess] mileage [charge] .
Under the terms of the agreement, Mr P is liable for certain other  charges.  This includes 
charges for scratches to the paintwork and scratches to the alloy wheels deemed outside  
reasonable wear  and tear.
So, in this instance, Ive to decide  if the damage  relating to the front and rear bumpers and 
three of the alloy wheels,  is outside  reasonable wear and tear. In deciding this Ive taken into
account (amongst  other  things) industry  good  practice including  the British  Vehicle Renting 
and Leasing Association guidelines (BVRLA).
Ref: DRN94870892BMWFS has provided its inspection  report which shows  damage  to both bumpers.
Having reviewed the photographs of the damage, Im satisfied it looks  like wear and tear. Im
also satisfied that it looks to be beyond the reasonable  wear and tear as set out in the
BVRLA guidelines.
The BVRLA guidelines state that scratches and abrasions up to 25mm  are acceptable, 
relative to the vehicles  age and mileage, provided the primer or bare metal  is not showing.
Now having looked  at the photographs provided  by BMWFS,  Im satisfied that the scratch to
the rear bumper has primer or bare metal  showing  and at least one of the scratches to the 
front bumper exceeds 25mm with primer or bare metal showing. And because of this, I find 
that BMWFS has acted  entirely reasonably in charging Mr P £148.
BMWFS has provided its inspection  report which shows  damage  to three alloy wheels.
Having reviewed the photographs of the damage, Im satisfied it looks  like wear and tear. Im
also satisfied that it looks to be beyond the reasonable  wear and tear as set out in the
BVRLA guidelines.
The BVRLA guidelines state that scuffs totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of 
the wheel  trim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes and the hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
Now having looked  at the photographs provided  by BMWFS,  Im satisfied that in respect of 
all three alloy wheels  there are either scuffs exceeding 50mm  of the total circumference of 
the alloy and/or damage to the alloy hub. And because of this, I find that BMWFS has acted 
entirely reasonably  in charging Mr P £153.
Now I can see that Mr P says that one of the alloy wheels had manufacturer corrosion 
around the centre. Despite what the investigator concluded on this point,  Im satisfied that 
this damage didnt preclude  BMWFS  charging  for the other damage.  I also think  its worth 
pointing out that BMWFS has confirmed that if the alloy wheel in question  only had what 
Mr P refers  to as manufacturer corrosion,  it wouldnt  have invoiced him £51.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that I accept that the car might have been 
able to be repaired for a lessor sum than BMWFS charged Mr P. But it was open  to Mr P to 
have any damage  repaired himself (to a satisfactory standard)  before the car was returned. 
BMWFS are entitled  to charge for damage which goes beyond  fair wear and tear and the 
fact that repairs can be carried out more cheaply  elsewhere doesnt mean that BMWFS 
charges are unreasonable. Similarly, theres  no obligation on BMWFS to carry out the 
repairs. If the repairs arent carried out this is reflected in the reduction  of the cars value 
when it comes to be sold at auction, for which BMWFS should be compensated. I would also 
add that despite what Mr P says on this point, Im satisfied that any damage not repaired by 
BMWFS would have had an effect  on the resale  value. 
For the reasons  Ive explained Im satisfied  that the end of agreement  charges of £301  are 
fair and BMWFS need neither reduce or waive them.
Ref: DRN94870893Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that although Mr P says he felt 
pressured into paying the sums BMWFS were seeking from him, I dont find the content  or 
tone of BMWFSs  correspondence in this respect  to be inappropriate,  unfair  or 
unreasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9487089