K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs J bought  the policy in 1997  sometime after taking out a mortgage. They applied 
for the mortgage  and PPI policy through the post. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs J for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to £877.16 a month towards  
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  The benefit was split 
50/50 between  them, so if either  of them was unable to work  and made a successful claim 
the benefit would be £438.58 a month. At the time,  it cost £53.16  a month.  
At the time,  Mr J was employed  in air freight.  He has told us he was entitled to statutory sick 
and redundancy  pay and had critical illness and life insurance cover. Mr J has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs J was employed but didnt provide further  details.  I have  assumed  that she was entitled 
to statutory sick and redundancy pay. Mrs J has said she was in good health at the time of 
the sale. 
Mr J was 49 years old and Mrs J was 45 years old at the time of sale.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Js representative says:
 
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs J 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Js representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs J about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs J 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN98192972The information Mr and Mrs J received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Js. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN98192973I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like St Andrews at the time.  So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so St 
Andrews was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs J with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs J, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs J 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs J 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN98192974did Mr and Mrs J know they had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs J applied for the PPI by post some time after theyd applied for their mortgage. 
They were  sent information about the PPI and chose to apply for it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs J knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
Both St Andrews and Mr and Mrs J agree that advice wasnt  provided during this sale. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs J were given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr and 
Mrs J were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs J 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs J agreed to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Js. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Js representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN98192975-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs J about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Js representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs J have suggested.  And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrews  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs J? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs J suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs J. So, Ive gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs J would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs J say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs J had to weigh up in their own mind(s) the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr and Mrs J being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs J chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what  Mr and 
Mrs J thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed  
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs J have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear St Andrews told them  the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs J would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started, so if the costs  were significantly at odds with 
their expectations at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with St 
Andrews at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs J would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  St Andrews made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs J would  get 
back in return in the event Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr 
and Mrs Js expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, its more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of 
a claim than they would  have  expected  as there  was an additional cash payment.
Ref: DRN98192976Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs J thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs J werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs J be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonable qualified them to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs J pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs J from taking 
out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs J were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs J wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  the policy didnt 
exclude pre-existing medical conditions and Mr and Mrs J were  in permanent  employment. 
So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs J might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs J from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs J, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs J had known they could only claim for disability if Mr or Mrs J were unable to 
do both their job and any similar gainful  occupation  which in the insurers  view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs J were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs J that any claim they made would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but had limited  other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs J would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
Ref: DRN98192977help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs J be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs J would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs J were  made redundant, or unable to work  through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs J would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Js representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs J would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Js circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs J found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs J believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs J in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs J compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN98192978Im also aware that Mr and Mrs J think St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
St Andrews  statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs J, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1997  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Js representative says a court  might  take if 
it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs J and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs J in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9819297