K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that British Gas Services Limited  refused  to repair  his boiler  unless he had a 
powerflush completed. 
He says he then found out that a powerflush  wasnt necessary.
background
Mr B has a HomeCare policy with British Gas which  covers him, amongst other things, for 
unlimited repairs to his gas central  heating system.
Mr Bs complaint is brought on his behalf  by his daughter, Ms B. 
Ms B says that in December 2018  her father, who is elderly and disabled, called British  Gas 
because his boiler was no longer providing  hot water. An engineer  called but said he could 
only repair the boiler if Mr B had a powerflush completed at a cost of £760.  
Mr B needed  hot water  so arranged for an independent engineer  to look at the boiler. The 
independent engineer replaced some parts, including the heat exchanger, and got the boiler 
working again. The engineer said that a powerflush wasnt needed.  The cost of the repair 
was £230.29.
Mr Gs daughter then complained to British Gas. She said she thought  her father had been 
given wrong information and had needlessly incurred costs for something that should  have 
been covered  under  the policy.
In response to the complaint British  Gas arranged for one of its service  managers to 
investigate. He arranged for a water test to be carried out. This showed there were no 
problems with the water quality and no need for a powerflush.
British Gas then sent its final response letter. It explained that its engineer had found the 
heat exchanger and associated  parts to be in poor condition due to the water quality. He had 
noted that British  Gas had previously replaced  these parts  in in 2016 and had provided a 
quotation at that time for a powerflush to improve the quality of the water. 
It went on to explain that under  the terms and conditions of the policy British Gas would carry 
out a first repair but, if there were  further issues relating to poor water quality, any future 
repair would be chargeable. It said that British Gas had a process in place to test the water 
quality before any upgrade work is carried out and, therefore, a powerflush would not be 
done unless necessary.
With regard to the water test it said that the third-party engineer may have drained the 
system and it was, therefore,  impossible to confirm the water quality before the repair.
Ms B then brought  her fathers complaint to us where it was looked  at by one of our 
investigators.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought the evidence from the 
third-party engineer  was persuasive that a powerflush was not needed. So he recommended  
that British Gas reimburse Mr B the costs hed incurred and pay him £50 compensation for 
the trouble and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN95039382British Gas didnt  agree. Essentially it said that the work carried out by the third-party 
engineer, and the parts replaced, was consistent  with there being a problem with the water  
quality. As Mr B hadnt  addressed  this following the 2016 repair it maintained  its position  that 
the most  recent work was not covered under the terms of Mr Bs policy.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator,  for largely the same reasons.
I can see that in 2016  British Gas replaced  the heat exchanger on Mr Bs boiler. The notes 
from the time say quoted for a power flush. I cant see any reference to the water  being 
tested and Ms B says no test was carried out.
In 2018 British Gas attended again.  Its notes say: Boiler blocked with sludge and scale 
again  requoted for powerflush. Again, I cant see any reference to a water test being 
carried out to confirm this diagnosis.
British Gas is relying on a term in the insurance  contract which says it wont cover damage 
caused by limescale,  sludge or other debris, if we've told you before that you need  to carry 
out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, similar process,  but you haven't done 
so".
I understand British  Gass  point. But I havent  seen anything to persuade me that a 
powerflush was needed  in 2016 or 2018,  or that the damage repaired in 2018 was caused 
by limescale, sludge or other debris.
In its final response letter  British Gas says that it has a process in place to test the water 
quality and that a powerflush wouldnt be done unless necessary. But it doesnt  appear to 
have carried out, or offered to carry out, a water  test for Mr B until after he complained and 
after hed had the work done elsewhere. 
The water test carried out then showed  that there was no problem with the water quality and 
that a powerflush  wasnt needed. British Gas says the independent engineer might have 
drained the system  and that could  be why the water  was clear.
I accept thats possible.  But the engineer  listed all the work hed done  and that didnt include 
draining down  the system. So Im not persuaded thats the reason. 
British Gas also says that the work  the independent  engineer completed  was consistent with 
there being sludge in the system. But that isnt supported by the report from the independent 
engineer who says "after draining the boiler  and inspecting the components  within the boiler  
there was no sign of dirty water therefore a powerflush was not required".
That seems  consistent  with the later,  post repair, water test carried  by British Gas.
Ref: DRN95039383In all the circumstances, and based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the 
2018 problem  was a result  of damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris.  So I 
dont think it was reasonable for British Gas to refuse to carry out repairs to Mr Bs boiler.
British Gas could  have carried out a water test at that point. But it doesnt  seem to have 
done so. It appears  only to have offered Mr B the option of having a powerflush.  In the 
circumstances Im satisfied that Mr B may have  thought he had little option but to call 
another engineer.
Since the cost of the repair would ordinarily have been covered under the terms of Mr Bs 
policy with British Gas I think it would be fair for British Gas to reimburse him the £230.29  he 
paid to the independent engineer.
I also agree  with our investigator that British Gas should pay Mr G £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
British Gas Services Limited must now:
Pay Mr B £230.29  to reimburse him for the costs  he incurred.
Pay Mr B £50 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9503938