K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O, represented by a claims management company, complained that Kensington 
Mortgage Company  Limited applied charges to their mortgage account which  were  unfair  
and excessive.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a £63,750  mortgage with Kensington in April 2006. Unfortunately they 
didnt always make their monthly payments, and fell into arrears.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs O, represented by a claims management company, complained to 
Kensington. They said theyd been charged  default,  administration or penalty  charges, which  
were unfair and excessive. They wanted  these refunded, with interest.
Kensington replied  that it was only obliged to consider complaints which were brought within  
time limits. It explained that this service  may not consider a complaint where  that complaint 
is referred to us outside the time limits. So Mr and Mrs O had to have brought their complaint 
within six years.  
Kensington went on to say that it had applied 8 fees and charges. These were all 
Administration Fees, for £40 each,  and had been applied between  October  2013  and 
October 2014. Theyd been applied because Mr and Mrs O had paid later than the due date, 
and/or where  arrears  hadnt  been  addressed.
Kensington also pointed out that Mr and Mrs O had avoided several Administration  Fees  by 
setting up payment arrangements. However, when  these  arrangements  had been broken, 
fees were applicable again.
Mr and Mrs O werent satisfied and complained to this service. On the complaint form, they 
requested we should look at fees from 2012.
The adjudicator partly upheld Mr and Mrs Os complaint. He set out that there had been 
eight occasions  when Mr and Mrs O had been  charged a fee by Kensington. He explained 
that when a borrower has at least met the monthly  payment due, wed say its unfair  if the 
lender charges a fee.
The adjudicator noted that Mr and Mrs Os contractual monthly  payment  was £326.78 at the 
relevant time. There were four occasions when theyd paid at least  this, but had still been  
charged a £40 fee. So he considered Kensington should refund Mr and Mrs O £160  plus 
associated interest.
Kensington didnt  reply  to us within the response  time. So the complaint was passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99783142Its correct that this service is bound  by time limits about what  we can and cant consider. 
Here, Mr and Mrs O have  complained about fees from 2012. The fees theyre complaining 
about were all charged between October 2013  and October 2014. So I can consider these.
This services stance on fees is that there shouldnt be a fee if the borrower makes a 
payment of at least the contractual monthly payment. This applies even when there are 
underlying arrears. So Ive looked in detail at Mr and Mrs Os account. Ive set this out in the 
table below.
Date £40 administration  
fee chargedWhat Mr and Mrs O had paid 
in the previous month £Fee justified?
6 October 2013 0 Yes
5 January 2014 0 Yes
8 March 0 Yes
5 April 10 March      330 No
6 May 7 April      330      No
5 August 0 Yes
5 September 21 August      333 No
6 October 26 September      330  No
I have checked  and there were no further  relevant fees for the rest of the time period  which  I 
can consider. So I find that Kensington should  refund four £40 administration fees to Mr and 
Mrs O. Kensington should also re-credit  any interest it charged on these payments.
I have also checked  Kensingtons  list of fees and charges for the relevant time. This shows  
that £40 was the amount  which was set as the monthly arrears administration  fee. So the 
amount of the fees was in line with their set fees for that time. The explanatory  note explains 
that was to cover additional administration and costs to manage accounts in arrears.
Mr and Mrs O have said they believe the amount Kensington charged was excessive. But 
where a lenders had to do more to administer a mortgage than it should have had to do, 
because the borrowers  havent complied with the terms and conditions  in other words, 
havent paid  the lender  is entitled  to pass that cost on to the borrower. And I find that the 
amount of Kensingtons £40 fee is in line with what most lenders charge in such 
circumstances. 
The claims management company representing Mr and Mrs O has asked for a refund, 
interest added  because of the charges, and 8% interest. Here, Ive found  that Kensington 
should refund £160 of fees,  plus mortgage  interest it charged on those fees. These  sums are 
to be re-credited to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage.  But there is no additional 8% interest  payable  
in these circumstances.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Kensington Mortgage  Company 
Limited to:
-credit  Mr and Mrs Os mortgage  account with £160 refund for the administration fees 
charged in April, May, September  and October 2014; and 
Ref: DRN99783143-make  an appropriate  interest credit  to the mortgage for any interest  charged  on these 
fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9978314