K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland trading at the time of 
sale as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a regular premium  MPPI  policy in January 1996.  The policy covered      
Mr and Mrs M against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The mortgage and policy 
ended in February 2001.
Mr and Mrs M think the MPPI policy was mis-sold to them.  They say they were led to believe 
having the policy would help them obtain their mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because of the following reasons:
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide much of the sales documentation that 
was used at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant  be 
sure how the policy was presented by Bank of Scotland to Mr and Mrs M in the 
meeting. Ive not been able to see most  of the original sales  documentation (such  as 
the application form). So its been difficult for me to consider whether  Mr and Mrs M 
were given  a choice or not as to whether they should have the MPPI policy (or 
whether they were  led to believe it would help them  obtain a mortgage).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Bank  of Scotland  sold these  
policies around  this time.  Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection from 
Mr and Mrs M of how the policy was sold at the time of sale either. This is 
understandable considering the many years that have  passed.  So taking these points 
into consideration, I cannot  fairly  conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold in 
the way Mr and Mrs M say it was (that they were led to believe it would help them 
obtain a mortgage) I just havent  seen  enough to persuade  me that this was the case. 
Moving on, I cant be sure if Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to                
Mr and Mrs M. But after reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt  look as if the 
MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M anyway based on what Ive seen  of 
their circumstances at the time. 
I say this because  although Mr and Mrs M say they both held 6 months full and 6 
months half sick pay along with savings, I think  the policy  would have come in useful  
in a time of need. It would have also paid in addition to their provisions. I think, on 
Ref: DRN99452632balance, they had a need for this cover for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant  or limiting term 
from the policy documents  provided that would make the policy  unsuitable for either 
of them  either.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
policy that Mr and Mrs M took out but even though it has provided  information 
detailing the cover  and how much  it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs  were 
disclosed to Mr and Mrs M in a clear and fair way at the time of sale.  That said, even 
if they were disclosed clearly I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9945263