K820x#14complaint
The trusts complaint  is about an investment it held in Legal & Generals UK Property  Fund 
(the fund) on a platform provided by Alliance  Trust Savings Limited (Alliance  Trust). The 
trusts representative says the trust did not receive any notification from Alliance Trust of a 
fair value  pricing  (FVP) adjustment  applied to the fund by its manager.  That adjustment  
was initially -5% and was later increased to -15%. The trusts representative says Alliance 
Trust should have  given the trust notice of these adjustments  and that the trust would have 
sold before  the adjustment was increased,  had Alliance Trust told it of the initial  -5% 
adjustment. In the event, the trust sold after the adjustment was increased to -15%. The 
trusts representative says Alliance  Trust should  compensate the trust for the difference  
between the initial and increased adjustment.  
background
The fund is a unit trust, which invests in UK commercial property. It trades each working day. 
A price for its units is fixed by Legal  & General once each day. The fund is priced  on a 
forward basis,  meaning any order to buy or sell units  is put forward  for execution at the 
next available pricing point, and the price  at which the order  was executed will only be 
known once the price  for that day has been published, after execution  has taken place. 
Orders to sell units have  to be with Legal & General by 10:30,  to be executed  at the price  for 
that day. 
After the result of the 23 June 2016 referendum  on EU membership was announced, Legal 
& General gave  consideration to applying a FVP adjustment, to reflect the impact of the 
Brexit vote. On 27 June 2016 Legal & General  announced that it would apply a FVP of        
-5%. That meant those who had given orders to sell after 10:30  on 26 June 2016 would have 
an FVP adjustment  of -5% applied. On 6 July 2016  Legal & General decided  to increase the 
FVP adjustment  by 10%, meaning a total FVP adjustment  of -15% would  apply for those 
who had given orders to sell after 10:30 on 5 July 2016. 
The complaint is being brought by the trusts representative. He also held an investment in 
the fund on Alliance Trusts platform in his own name.  The complaint about that investment 
has been looked at separately. But in practice  it seems the trusts representative dealt with 
his own investment and that held by the trust together. So Ive considered the complaint  on 
that basis. 
The trust held units  in the fund on Alliance Trusts platform. The trust gave an order to sell its 
units on 6 July. So it was impacted by the -15% FVP adjustment. The trusts representative 
queried the price  the sale order had been executed  at shortly  after the sale had completed. 
In reply, Alliance Trust said it had only been  told of the increase to the FVP adjustment  on 7 
July, so had been unable  to notify  its customers before then. The trusts  representative  then 
asked when Alliance  Trust  had been told about  the 27 June FVP adjustment  and, whilst 
awaiting a reply, complained to Alliance Trust. 
Alliance Trust  did not uphold the trusts complaint. It said it only received notification of the 
FVP adjustment  after it had been  applied,  so could not communicate the adjustment  in 
advance of it being applied. In its reply  Alliance Trust referred to being told of the 6 July 
adjustment by Legal & General on 7 July. But it did not answer the trusts representatives 
question about  the 27 June adjustment.  
Ref: DRN93201072After the trust brought its complaint to us, our investigator asked Alliance Trust about the 27 
June adjustment  on more  than one occasion.  In reply, Alliance Trust referred again  to being 
told about the 6 July adjustment  on 7 July. 
The investigator explained to the trusts  representative that she did not think the trusts  
complaint should  be upheld.  She explained that Legal & General did not give advance notice 
of applying or increasing the adjustment, so Alliance  Trust could not have told the trust about 
an adjustment, ahead  of it being applied. 
The trusts representative did not accept  this view, and pointed  out that the investigator had 
not considered  the point he had made about  not being told when the adjustment was initially 
applied on 27 June.  
I issued a provisional decision in November 2018. My provisional findings were:   
I think it is important to say initially that this fund, in common with most collective 
investments of its type, was forward priced. That means the trust, or any other  investor, will 
not receive advance  notice  of fund pricing   trades  will always go forward to the next pricing 
point, and the price  will only be confirmed once the trade has been  executed.  So there was 
no basis on which the trust could have been given notice of the FVP adjustment  or the 
increase to it before they were applied  the trust could only be told of the adjustment or 
increase after it had been applied. 
The trust gave its instruction to sell its units on 6 July 2016  the date the increase to the 
FVP adjustment  was made. Alliance Trust could not therefore have given the trust notice of 
the increase before it gave its instruction to sell. The increase to the FVP was not known 
until after the trust gave  its instruction to sell. So the remainder of my consideration is 
focussed on the initial adjustment applied on 27 June  before the trust gave its instruction to 
sell. 
Alliance Trust  did not initially answer  the question of what it was told by Legal & General 
about the 27 June FVP adjustment and whether it communicated  this to the trust. Having 
asked it about  this, I have established that Alliance Trust was told about the 6 July increase 
to the adjustment but has no evidence  of being  told about the adjustment  initially being 
applied on 27 June.  I have also established  that it did not send any communication to the 
trust to alert it to either the adjustment or the increase to it. 
I think it more  likely than not that Alliance  Trust was told about the initial FVP adjustment as 
well as the increase  to it. Legal & General says it would have told all platform  providers,  and 
I think it likely it would  have done  so. So I think Alliance Trust was made aware of both the 
initial FVP adjustment as well as the increase. As mentioned, it didnt alert the trust to either. 
And I think it could be argued that it would have been good customer  service  for it to have 
done so. But I do not think it follows that it would be fair to say the trust wasnt  aware of the 
adjustment at all, or that it would be fair to hold Alliance Trust responsible  for the increase in 
the adjustment which the trust was impacted by, in any event. I say this for two reasons.  
Firstly, I am satisfied  that the prices published  on Alliance Trusts platform reflected the 
adjustment. So the prices the trusts representative would have seen  on the platform,  and 
the value of the trusts investment, took the adjustment into account.  I have asked  Alliance 
Trust if it has records of the account  held by the trusts representative  being  accessed after 
the 27 June adjustment was applied. In response, it provided an on-line activity log, which  
shows the trusts representatives account  being accessed on 28, 29 and 30 June and on 1,4 
Ref: DRN93201073and 5 July, before being accessed a number of times on 6 July 2016,  when  the instruction to 
sell was given. Given this activity, the amount of media commentary  at the time about the 
impact of the Brexit vote on property prices, and the size of the investment the trust held (it 
was large)  I think it more  likely than not that the trusts representative was monitoring the 
price of the fund. So he would  have  been  aware of the fall in the price that was brought 
about by the adjustment,  even if he was not alerted to the adjustment by Alliance Trust. 
Secondly, I am not, in any event, persuaded that the trust would have sold its units earlier  
had Alliance Trust specifically alerted its representative  to the initial  adjustment. I think this 
point is being  made  with the benefit of hindsight. I think it likely  the trusts  representative  was 
aware of the value  of the trusts investment after the 27 June adjustment  was applied - so he 
was effectively aware of the adjustment, which was a reduction in value to reflect  the market. 
The fact he did not immediately sell when the trusts investment value fell following the 
adjustment suggests the fall in value caused  by the adjustment was not the only factor he 
took into account when considering whether to sell the trusts  units.  It seems  the trusts 
representative was continuing to monitor the market, before finally deciding to sell, and that 
the argument that the trust have sold earlier if he been alerted to the initial  adjustment   is 
hence being made with the hindsight knowledge  of the later increase to the adjustment.  
In my provisional decision on the trusts  representatives complaint, I explained that I thought 
Alliance Trust  could  have  dealt with his queries and complaint much  better. I explained  that 
Alliance Trust  didnt  answer all his questions, and it should have explained  to him it could not 
give advance notice  of pricing adjustments on a forward  priced  fund, rather  than suggesting 
there was fault on Legal and Generals part for not telling it about the increase to the 
adjustment until after it had happened. That point stands in this case, but I have suggested 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to the representative personally in the other 
complaint. The trust itself cannot have suffered trouble  and upset, so I suggest no award for 
that here.  And I do not think the trusts  representative has had to spend  significant amount of 
extra time dealing  with matters due to Alliance Trusts failings, as he dealt with the trusts 
investment alongside his own. So I do not think I should suggest  an award on that basis  
either. Given my above findings, I do not therefore intend to ask Alliance Trust to do anything 
else. 
Alliance Trust  said it accepted my provisional findings but wanted to reconfirm that it had 
been unable  to find any evidence that it was notified of the 5% FVP adjustment applied by 
Legal & General. It also said it was unable to find any announcement  for the -5% adjustment 
in the public domain. So it did not think it was fair to say it is likely it received notification of 
the 5% FVP adjustment from Legal & General.
The trusts representative did not accept  my provisional findings. His reply included  a lot of 
points about Legal & General actions, which are being looked at separately  under another  
complaint. In relation to Alliance Trust  he said,  in summary: 
In the absence of any evidence of notification being made of the first FVP 
adjustment, there is no basis  for me to conclude it was more than likely than not that 
Alliance Trust  was told about the initial  FVP adjustment and to accept Legal & 
Generals statement  that it would have  told all platform providers. Legal & General 
has failed to produce a copy  of the notification of the first adjustment when asked for 
one, and Alliance  Trust  has been  unable to confirm  that it received such a 
notification. So it should be concluded that Legal & General did not provide a timely 
notification of the first adjustment to Alliance Trust.
Ref: DRN93201074I refer to online session logs immediately following the first adjustment  as evidence  
that he was aware of the change in prices. This line of argument completely ignores 
the fact that while  he was aware the price had dropped, he did not know  this was a 
result of an FVP adjustment being applied by Legal & General. Alliance Trust was 
also unaware of this when he called it to query  why the price had suddenly  dropped.  
It could only confirm  that the price was that set by Legal  & General on a forward 
basis, but at no time told him that an FVP adjustment had been made. 
Had he known that Legal & General had made  an exceptional FVP adjustment, he 
would have sold the units immediately and thus avoided  being penalised by the 
second FVP adjustment. 
The financial markets operate on a basis of trust underpinned by information being  
equally available to all investors.  This is not the case in this situation, and investors  
such as him who are deprived of critical information concerning  fund managers  
exceptional actions,  are at a disadvantage.
Alliance Trust  was obliged under its Terms and Conditions to pass  on any corporate 
action to investors. It failed to transmit any notification of either the first or second  
FVP adjustment  made by Legal & General.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings.  
I do not think the application of the FVP adjustment was, strictly speaking,  a corporate 
action. The units  in the unit trust were  not shares  in a corporation. But I do remain of the 
view that it would have  been  good  customer service for Alliance Trust to have told the trust 
Legal & General had applied an adjustment, even if it was not obligated to do so by its 
Terms and Conditions,  if it was told about the adjustment by Legal & General. If it was not 
told about  the adjustment by Legal  & General (and I appreciate  both it and the trusts 
representative feel that is the case) then it clearly would  not have been able to tell the trust. 
And although  I said in my provisional  decision that it is was likely Legal & General told 
Alliance Trust  there is conflicting evidence  on this point, so I accept it is possible that it did 
not. But I do not think this makes  any difference to what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I say this because  I remain of the view that the trust was aware of the adjustment.  In his 
reply to my provisional decision the trusts representative  acknowledges he was aware the 
price of the units had dropped suddenly. And it needs to be remembered that the FVP 
adjustment was simply a change to the price of the units to reflect the fund managers view 
of the value of the funds underlying assets.  So Im not persuaded that there is a distinction 
between an awareness  that the price of the fund had fallen by the amount of the 5% 
adjustment and an awareness of the adjustment itself  I think  these are one and the same.  
If the trusts representative knew of the fall in price then the trust knew  of the adjustment. 
I appreciate the trusts representative  feels that the fall in the price being due to an 
adjustment being applied  by the fund manager  was an exceptional thing, and an awareness  
of the fall being due to such an action would have  led the trust to act differently. But I dont 
think the trusts representative not being aware of the technicalities of how the price had 
Ref: DRN93201075been calculated  would  have led the trust to act differently at the time. The trusts 
representative knew the units had fallen by the amount of the FVP adjustment. And I think it 
more likely than not that the trusts  representative  was aware that the market  conditions  
following the Brexit vote were exceptional,  even if he didnt know the precise details of how 
the fund value changes were being  brought about by the fund manager. The trusts 
representative accepts  he viewed the first adjustment as a sudden drop,  suggesting  he 
knew something unusual  was happening. And the frequency with which he accessed his 
accounts suggests he was concerned about  how the trusts investment would be impacted 
by events. 
So I think when the trust made its instruction to sell the units  the trusts representative was 
aware of the previous adjustment and aware of the possibility that the price  might again 
drop. I do not therefore think  it fair to say that an awareness of how the price movement had 
been enacted by Legal & General would  have led the trust to act differently. I can 
understand the disappointment with the increased fall in the value of his units after the trust 
gave its instruction to sell them. But I think the point  that the trust would have given the 
instruction earlier  had the trusts representative known Legal & General  had used  a FVP 
adjustment to change  the value of the units is made with the benefit  of the hindsight 
knowledge of how the fund has performed since the trust sold its units. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trust to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9320107