K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited  wrongly describes its 
UK Index  Trust fund as dual priced when in reality it runs it as a single  priced fund. This 
led him to receive  £477 less than he expected when he sold his shares  and he wants  this 
paid to him plus compensation for the general inconvenience this issue has caused.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel his complaint  should  be upheld.
In brief,  he said:
L & G had not advised Mr W to undertake this investment so it was for him to read 
the documentation and decide whether  to go ahead
Even if he felt (which he didnt) that L & Gs advice had been inadequate  or 
misleading he could  only award compensation if he could safely  conclude that Mr W 
wouldnt have invested if better  informed and he was able to conclusively say what  
he would  have  done instead. He did not believe it was possible to reach a decision 
about either of these  issues
Concerns about the authorisation of this fund and L & Gs responsibilities would need 
to be referred to the Financial Conduct Authority,  the overall industry regulator
Overall, he did not believe the information was misleading
According to L & G Mr W has continued  to invest in this fund fund since making  his 
complaint and despite the fact that there  are other tracking  funds available  with other 
companies that price  in a different way to L & Gs UK Index  Tracking Fund
Mr W did not agree, and said:
The Key Investor  Information document states: From day to day we will move the 
unit prices within these  prices as necessary
His reasonable understanding of the word between" in that context was that price  
would always be set somewhere  along  a sliding scale between  the maximum and 
minimum but L & G only set the price  at the two extremes. The wording of the phrase 
is not clear
His conviction is that this has always been  a single priced fund. At the time he bought 
the units concerned  the fund was cited as single priced in all of  L & Gs 
documentation: the definition Full Swing" and Single-Quoted Swinging Dual 
Priced" only emerged after his complaint  and were created in response to it
Moreover, the Key Investor  Information document  does not specify  whether the fund 
is Single, Dual or Swinging. Instead  it contains  a link to a page that categorises the 
fund as Dual Priced, which it is clearly  not
This service should not cherry-pick the documents L & G sent
While  he continues to hold other funds with L & G he now has to track the funds 
against the underlying indexes
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90260052In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons, particularly in 
relation to the Key Investor Information  document and the other  documentation.  I too am not 
persuaded that this was misleading,  and for the reasons he outlined. I am satisfied that the 
section describing  the unit price  spread  provides a reasonable account of how L & G 
operated the fund and sale instructions.
Crucially, when considering a complaint  I have  to consider both whether a business did 
something wrong and whether a customer has suffered  as a result of it. Generally, when 
considering investment complaints my key consideration is whether a customer would not 
have gone ahead with their investment (because  it was too risky,  the charges were  too high 
etc.) and that there is sufficient evidence to safely say what they would, on balance, have 
done instead. This is the only way to assess potential  compensation, which  must be based 
on what a customers financial would now be in if given the correct information,  properly  
advised etc. in the first place i.e. what they would have done with this money.
From what  Ive read Mr W has not said he would not have  gone  ahead if the information had 
been clearer (or clearer to him), nor has he said where else he would have put this money. 
Indeed he continued to buy units in this fund as recently as three months after bringing  his 
complaint. Therefore, even if I were to conclude that L & Gs information  had been 
inadequate or misleading I could not award Mr W the £477 he wants as it paid him the 
correct amount according to how it calculates sale prices.
Finally, I recognise that Mr W has never claimed  L & G provided advice about this 
investment but it is important to reiterate that in a non-advised sale it is for the customer to 
fully understand  the nature of any product and if anything is unclear or confusing to seek  
further information from the business or independent financial advice before going ahead. 
This is obviously  true in relation to a complex  product such  as this one. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9026005