K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) has not offered 
him a refund even though  he didnt drive the amount of miles allowed under his hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA).  He feels the HPA was unfair.
background
Mr P entered into a HPA with MBFS in June 2015.  At the time he says he was asked to 
estimate his mileage but he didnt know how many miles  he would cover.  An annual mileage 
allowance of 10,000 miles was included  in the HPA giving  a total mileage allowance over the 
three years of 30,000.
Mr P says that he only drove 23,000  miles  in the three years and felt that this should be 
recognised either by his arrears being  written off or an amount being offset.
MBFS says that although Mr P did not use his full mileage allowance  it was not required to 
provide him with a refund or offset an amount against any other charges. It also says that it 
does not benefit from vehicles  being returned  with a lower mileage than allowed as a 
residual sale price  is agreed at the start of the HPA based on the allowed mileage and this is 
the amount it receives when the vehicle is returned.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the HPA did not contain any 
provision about  a refund for unused mileage allowance. He thought  the HPA was clear in 
setting out the mileage  allowance  and the charges in the event this was exceeded. He said 
that Mr P could have  completed up to 30,000 miles in the three years without incurring 
excess mileage charges and that although he completed less than this it didnt mean that a 
refund was due.
Mr P did not accept out adjudicators view.  He said that his complaint was about the fairness 
of the HPA. He said that being  asked  to predict  his mileage  over three years was purely 
guesswork and that MBFS  covers itself by having an excess  mileage charge. He said that he 
also has another vehicle financed by another provider  and it asks part way through the 
contract for an update on the miles  used. If this is lower than expected  the payments are 
reduced which he considered fair. He did not think that the HPA he received from MBFS was 
fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P entered into a HPA with MBFS in 2015  and in doing so agreed  to its terms and 
conditions. He was asked to predict the mileage  he would cover over the following three  
years and says he had to guess at this amount. I appreciate that Mr P was not aware of the 
mileage he would cover and chose 10,000 miles per year so as to avoid any excess mileage 
charges.
Mr P feels  that the HPA was unfair as when he returned the car with a lower mileage than 
allowed no refund was offered. Had he exceeded the mileage  allowance  charges would 
have been applied. 
Ref: DRN99654612While I can understand Mr Ps point of view, the HPA clearly  sets out the mileage allowance 
and excess charges and no mention is made of any refund in the event the full allowance  is 
not used. Although Mr P had to guess  the mileage it was his choice as to what level to set 
this at and so I cannot say that he was mislead in any way. 
Mr P chose his mileage allowance and he was able to cover  this amount without any excess 
mileage charges. Mr P was aware of the terms of the HPA before he entered into it and 
there was no suggestion  that any refund for under utilised mileage allowance would be 
made. Therefore  I do not find that I can say Mr P has been  treated unfairly  or that MBFS has 
done anything  wrong by not providing  Mr P with a refund  to reflect  his lower mileage.
I know this is not the decision  Mr P wanted  and I understand the point he makes  about 
treating customers fairly but in this case I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9965461