K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited gave poor service under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background 
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
British Gas replaced a radiator in Mrs Ms kitchen. She complained  that the engineer  didnt 
tighten a nut properly, causing a leak of water. She says she had to pay her tradesmen 
£700.00 to relay her new flooring.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that the 
damage to the flooring was most likely caused  by the radiator being  installed incorrectly.  He 
recommended that British  Gas should  pay Mrs M:
1.£700.00;
2.8% simple interest from the date she paid this to the installers until the date the 
settlement is paid;
3.£100.00 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs M agreed  with the investigators opinion.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the investigators opinion. 
I am the ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From its file, I think Mrs M had British Gas Home Care Three, which included cover for her 
central heating.  I can see from its file that British Gas fitted a replacement  kitchen radiator  on 
30 April 2018. I have  no reason to doubt Mrs Ms statement that  at that time  she had a 
tiled floor in that room.  
Mrs M also says that her tradesmen  did some refurbishment in her kitchen for three days in 
late May. I accept that  notwithstanding that one of her tradesmen  later said it was from 1 
June. I think he simply  got the date wrong. The work included some new worktops and new 
laminate flooring with an underlay.  Ive seen the invoice dated 31 May.
From the photographs I dont  think the tradesmen  had any reason to remove  the radiator or 
skirting. So I dont find it likely that they caused a leak.
I find it more likely that British Gas had left the radiator leaking slightly on 30 April and 
neither Mrs M nor her tradesmen noticed  it.
Ref: DRN91153862On 1 June, she noticed  some  movement in the new flooring. Her tradesmen found the leak  
and water trapped between the underlay and the laminate. 
Mrs M contacted British Gas. I accept  that  when she couldnt get a visit until the next day  
Mrs M turned to her neighbour who tightened  a nut on the radiator. A British Gas engineer  
visited on 2 June and made a note that he had found a leak from the radiator valve and he 
had re-sealed the radiator.
I dont doubt that the leak caused  Mrs M the upset of seeing her new flooring ruined.
Mrs M complained to British Gas.  She says it told her she could  take photographs  of the 
damaged flooring and get it replaced.  British Gas hasnt provided the call recording so I 
accept Mrs Ms recollection. 
But in any event I hold British Gas responsible for the leak,  the damage, the upset and the 
cost of replacing the new flooring.
The statement  from Mrs Ms tradesman  says that he replaced the laminate flooring and 
underlay at a cost of £700.00 including VAT. Ive seen an invoice for that dated 12 June 
2018. 
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to reimburse that amount with interest  at 
our usual rate from the date of the invoice.
And I find £100.00 fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ive 
found British Gas caused Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M:
1.£700.00 in reimbursement for replacement of her damaged flooring; and
2.Simple interest on that amount from 12 June 2018 to the date of reimbursement. If 
British Gas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it must tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
3.£100.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9115386