K820x#14Complaint
Mr B and Mr A complain  that FCA Automotive  Services UK Ltd refused to let him reject a 
car.
Background
In September  2017 Mr B acquired a new car costing £15,665 funded  by hire purchase 
agreement. Due to his age his father, Mr A was also party  to the agreement. 
Shortly after acquiring the car Mr B drove over a bollard and as a result he had two new 
tyres fitted.  In October 2017, Mr B took the car back to the dealer when it had done 3,000  
miles because  a brake warning light was showing.  This was investigated and the sensor 
unplugged and reconnected them which  seemed  to solve the problem.
In March 2018, two tyres were replaced and by June the car had done over 20,000  miles 
and it had its 18,000 mile service. One of the tyres had a bulge and another had a puncture,  
which was repaired.  The front brake pads and discs  were also changed.
FCA sent arrears letters in May and June 2018 as Mr B had missed  some of his monthly  
payments. In July 2018 it issued a default  notice, as the agreement was in arrears of 
£754.18. But before  the default  notice expired, Mr B made a payment to reduce the arrears
In September  2018 when the car had done 23,000 miles Mr B took it back  to the dealer as 
he believed  the brakes were  making  a squeaking  noise. The brakes were lubricated He was 
also concerned  about  a noise being made when the car was driven at more than 40 mph.  
The dealer  says it told him this was due to a damaged wheel bearing, which  it said it had 
previously made him aware of. It also says that the problem had been aggravated by being 
driven for many miles without being  repaired.
At this time Mr B complained to FCA, but it rejected  his complaint as it didnt think  the car 
had been faulty at the point of sale.  Mr B missed further payments and he returned the car to 
the dealer, but it returned it to his address. As it had no tax or insurance, it was impounded 
and he had to pay in order to have it released.  Due to the increasing arrears  FCA terminated 
the agreement  and this left Mr B with an outstanding debt.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said he had seen no evidence of the 
defects being  present  at the point  of sale. He said the faults  Mr B had identified  appeared to 
be due to wear and tear or the minor accident he had.
Mr B sent in three videos which he said showed  faults. One showed the in car entertainment 
system not turning on, but this was apparently  in October 2018 and there was no evidence 
that there  was an inherent fault.  Another  one was undecipherable and the third apparently  
showed a fault which hadnt be brought to the attention of the dealer. Overall the adjudicator 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show that car wasnt fit for purpose when sold.
He said that as Mr B had failed to make the required payments and FCA was entitled  to 
repossess the car and sell it. He also thought the dealer  was entitled to return the car to 
Mr B as FCA hadnt accepted rejection. He said Mr B was obliged  to keep the car taxed and 
insured and his failure to do so had led to it being  impounded.
Ref: DRN94458442Mr B didnt agree and said he had made  other complaints to the dealer which had been 
ignored. He was asked  for evidence but he didnt provide any. He said he hadnt wanted to 
return the car, but he wanted a like for like replacement.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCA is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Mr B, but I dont  believe I can uphold  his complaint. I will explain 
why.
Quite simply Mr B hasnt shown that car wasnt fit for purpose. The issues  which he reported  
to the dealer were due to wear and tear or due to the minor accident. Damage to tyres isnt 
something which one could say showed an inherent fault. And it seems  that he was advised  
to have further work done after that accident, but he chose not to do so. This resulted in later 
problems.
He was able to make extensive use of the car and certainly much more  than he had signed 
up for. That usage doesnt indicate the car wasnt of an acceptable standard. Nor do the 
videos he has submitted. If he had a problem with the entertainment system then it was 
open to him to have taken it the dealer.  I note that the dealer suggested he go to another  
dealership for a second opinion, but he chose to go to another garage which  in any event 
didnt identify any problems.
Mr B entered into a contract under which he agreed to make monthly payments. He failed to 
do so and FCA was entitled to protect  its positon  and to repossess the car. That doesnt  
mean Mr B isnt liable  for the outstanding  debt.  Simply leaving the car with the dealer doesnt 
result in him avoiding his responsibilities. 
Ref: DRN94458443I have noted that in April Mr B enquired  about voluntarily terminating the agreement which 
would have left him owing £6,741.75.  I have seen  nothing  to show  that he pursued this and 
so the car was later repossessed.
I appreciate that this decision  will disappoint  Mr B, but I can only suggest he talks to FCA 
about how he repays his debt. In turn I expect it to act positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9445844