K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  wont pay him the compensation that hes 
claimed for a holiday. His complaint is made  against  Nationwide  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Mr M used  his Nationwide credit card in August 2017 to pay £668  for an overseas packaged 
short-break holiday.  The outbound flight was delayed because  of poor weather and was 
diverted to a different airport.  Mr M complained to the holiday company and claimed  £200  
compensation because of the delay, issues with the transfer and the loss of a day of the 
holiday. He then claimed £200 from Nationwide under section 75. But he wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.  And hes also complained that Nationwide  
took too long to respond to him.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  consider  
that thered been a breach of contract  by the holiday company so he said that he wouldnt be 
asking Nationwide  to pay £200 compensation to Mr M.
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that the delay  meant that the first day of the holiday was effectively missed.  And he says that 
there have  been  delays  and errors  by Nationwide in relation to his claim. So he says that 
hes been unfairly treated and subjected to errors  which justifies some  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about Nationwide,  
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday 
company and that Nationwides response  to his claim under section 75 wasnt  fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr Ms claim under section  75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ms flight was delayed due to bad weather and that it was 
diverted to a different airport  which caused a delay in his arrival at the destination  and I 
can understand the frustration, distress and inconvenience that he was caused.  But the 
holiday companys  terms and conditions say that it isnt liable to pay any compensation or 
damages as a result of such flight cancellation,  amendment or delay. 
Im not persuaded that the holiday company has acted  incorrectly  in these circumstances or 
that theres been  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday  company. But 
Mr M has also complained about  the time that its taken Nationwide to deal with his 
complaint. He complained to Nationwide in February 2018 and it acknowledged his 
complaint less than two weeks later.  It sent a response to Mr M about two weeks after that  
but Mr M sent a letter to Nationwide  asking it to reconsider its decision at the end of March  
2018. Nationwide has provided a copy of a response that was dated  in mid-May 2018 but it 
Ref: DRN97284762seems that there were problems with sending the letter to Mr M as he asked it for a 
response later that month. Nationwide sent a final response to Mr M in June 2018.  
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at the time that its taken for Nationwide to reconsider his 
claim. But it did send  a full response to his initial claim within about a month and there was 
only a delay after Mr M had asked it to reconsider his claim.  There  was no change in 
outcome and Im not persuaded that the delay justifies an award of compensation to Mr M. 
So Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Nationwide  to pay any compensation to Mr M  or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9728476