K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about her secured  loan with Elderbridge Limited. In particular, shes  
unhappy that when she got to the end of the term in 2015 there was still a substantial 
balance to be repaid, which she believes to be because of fees and charges applied to the 
loan.
background
Mrs E took out a secured  loan in 2006  with another lender, which sold the loan on to 
Elderbridge in 2015. As Elderbridge is now responsible for everything  thats  happened  with 
the loan, this decision is in Elderbridges name, but when I refer to Elderbridge I also include 
the actions of the previous lender.
Mrs E borrowed £20,000. Soon after the loan was taken out, she began  to experience some 
financial difficulty and by 2011 the previous lender was taking legal proceedings against her. 
The proceedings were dealt  with by a suspended possession order  and in recent years 
Mrs E has been up to date with the payments due to her loan.
The term of the loan expired in 2015,  and Mrs E expected it to be paid off then. She says 
she was shocked  and upset to discover that there  was still a balance  of around £8,000, and 
that she would have to continue paying the loan  which she was managing with a struggle  
for several  more years. She said she believed the loan had been  paid off and the £8,000  
was administration  fees, which she didnt consider fair. And she said she hadnt been  told 
about the outstanding  amount  sooner,  so that she could have increased her payments to 
clear it.
Our investigator didnt  think that the loan had been  dealt with unfairly,  so he didnt 
recommend upholding the complaint. So Mrs E asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the history of the loan, and whats happened to it over the years. Mrs Es 
financial difficulties, when  she fell into arrears, were around ten years ago now,  and arent 
part of this complaint,  which is about the balance she realised was still outstanding in 2015. 
But its important context  and the key to understanding what  has led to this complaint.
Mrs E encountered significant financial difficulties, and the previous lender took her to court  
in around 2011.  The court made a suspended possession  order, on condition that Mrs E 
keep to a payment arrangement,  and it appears  that by and large she did so.
By this point, however, the arrears on the loan were around £5,600. Over the next few years 
Mrs E gradually reduced the arrears, and they were cleared  completely by 2015.
However, it was only the arrears that were  cleared  by that point. Arrears means the 
backlog of monthly  payments that hasnt been  made  so when the arrears  were cleared, 
that doesnt mean the loan balance itself has been paid off. It just means that Mrs E has 
caught up with the monthly  payments that had to have  been made.
Ref: DRN95789792If she hadnt had any financial difficulties, the loan would  have been paid off around this time 
 because the monthly payments would  have been  enough to clear  the loan.
However, when a monthly payment  is missed  that doesnt just put the loan into arrears.  As a 
monthly payment  is made up of both interest and some money to reduce the capital, a failure 
to make it means the overall loan balance wont fall as it should.  And, as a result, the 
balance is higher than it ought  to be the next month  meaning more  interest  is charged,  the 
balance goes up again, and even more  interest is charged the following month.
That means that over time, where a loan is in arrears because  payments arent  being  made,  
the balance can go up significantly. And theres  less time left to reduce it before the 
scheduled end of the term. So even  where the borrower starts  making  the original 
contractual monthly payments  again,  theyre no longer enough to pay the loan off by the end 
of the term. And clearing  the arrears  isnt enough by itself to pay off the additional  interest 
either.
Having looked  at the history of this account,  thats  what happened in this case. There were 
some administration and legal fees charged  before 2012 when Mrs E was in arrears.  But the 
reason the loan balance  was still £8,000 by 2015 was because  of the arrears and additional 
interest  not because  of administration fees.
I dont agree that Mrs E didnt know about the loan balance in 2015, and that it came  as a 
surprise at that time. She was sent annual statements which showed what  Ive set out 
above. And I can see from the contact history that she had discussions with the previous 
lender in 2013 and 2014.  In those discussions the lender told her that the loan wouldnt be 
paid off by the end of the term and she would need to pay what she could to reduce the 
balance. 
Taking all that into account,  I dont  think Elderbridge  is treating Mrs E unfairly by asking her 
to continue to make payments to the loan even though the original term has ended. I think 
she does owe the money  its asking her to pay, which is made up of interest  rather than 
administration charges. And the previous lender made sure she knew about the additional 
loan balance  and what she would need  to do to repay it. So I dont think it would be fair to 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9578979