K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax sold Mrs R the PPI when  she took out her credit card at a meeting. Her credit card 
application form had a separate PPI section.  This had a box to tick to take the cover.  On 
Mrs Rs form this box is ticked. And Mrs R also signed separately  next to this.  
Mrs R has said the PPI wasnt  discussed  and she wasnt aware it was added.  But bearing in 
mind what  Ive said above about  Mrs Rs application  form, I think its likely Mrs R was aware 
she was taking the PPI. 
Mrs R has said she wasnt  aware  the PPI was optional. But the cover wouldnt have been 
added unless the box for it was ticked. And Mrs R signed by the tick to confirm this selection. 
This part of the form also said the PPI is insurance and referred to it as coming at a cost. So 
I think Halifax likely made it clear  that the PPI was something separate  from the card.  
Also I take into account that the sale was well over a decade ago. So I wouldnt expect 
Mrs Rs memory  of it to be vivid. With all this in mind, what I have makes me think  its likely 
Halifax made it clear that Mrs R didnt have  to take the PPI. So I think  she chose to take it  
but I can understand why she might not remember this, given how long ago all this was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to do more  and check  the PPI was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was 
right for her. For example,  Mrs R wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  And if she lost her job or was too sick to work she was only entitled to statutory 
benefits. And shes told us she didnt have  savings or anything else to help with her credit 
card bills. So I think Mrs R had a need  for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of cover. 
And, for the reasons Ive already given above,  it seems like it would have been useful for 
Mrs R if something  went wrong and she needed  to claim. Taking everything into account, I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs R off taking it.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said - including  what shes  said about not being told 
to claim on the PPI when  her husband became ill. But the PPI covered Mrs R only.  So she 
couldnt have  claimed on it for sickness or unemployment her husband suffered. And this 
doesnt change  my view about how the PPI was right and potentially  useful  for Mrs R if she 
had lost her job or was too sick to work. So these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN97414482What Ive said above means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mrs R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs R back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Halifax  has 
already paid this to Mrs R.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741448