K821x#15Complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance  Ltd (Creation), following 
her claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background
Ms B and her ex-husband were contacted by a company, Ill refer to them  as G, that 
supplied and installed solar panel systems. Following a meeting, they agreed to enter  into a 
contract with G for it to supply and install a solar  panel system costing about £7,000. To fund 
this Ms B also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Creation.
Ms B made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. She said that G had told her that the 
solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more  
than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income  and savings generated. But that hadnt 
happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments  had been  much higher than the income.  
Since the solar  panels had been installed  Ms B had divorced and paid G to remove  the solar 
panels from her previous  home. G are currently storing them  for her for no charge. G had 
agreed that it would  install  the solar panels  on a new property but as Ms B was renting,  she 
was unable to have them reinstalled.
In its final response letter,  Creation said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar  panels 
had been misrepresented.  Unhappy  with this response, Ms B referred the complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He felt the benefits of the solar  
panel system had been misrepresented. He recommended Creation:
unwind the loan agreement,
refund  Ms B any payments shed made towards the loan agreement minus any 
benefits shed  received  from when the panels were fitted,
add 8% simple interest  to any payments Ms B had made from date of payment to 
date of settlement,
remove any record of the loan agreement from Ms Bs credit file,
refund  the amount Ms B paid G to have the panels removed from her previous home, 
and;
add 8% simple interest  to the above  amount from date of payment to date of 
settlement.
Creation didnt accept  our investigators  view. In summary it said:
it didnt think the benefits of the solar panel system had been misrepresented  to Ms 
B, and
it was Ms Bs choice  to have the solar panels removed from her previous home.
Ms B didnt respond to the investigators  view.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92216812When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA,  which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Ms B paid for the solar  panels  with a fixed sum loan, Creation agrees that s75 applies to 
this transaction.  This means  that Ms B could claim against Creation  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by G in the same way she could have claimed  
against G, the supplier. Ive taken s75 into account  when deciding  whats  fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant  as it says that any negotiations between Ms B and G as the supplier are 
deemed to have been conducted by G as an agent of Creation.
Ms B says she and her ex-husband were cold called and during a sales  meeting told that the 
installation would be entirely self-financing. I havent  seen anything  to show that shed shown 
a previous interest in solar panels before she was approached by G. It is difficult  to see why 
Ms B wouldve agreed to the installation of the solar  panels, financed  through  a loan that 
wouldve increased her monthly  outgoings. I therefore think it is unlikely that Ms B wouldve  
agreed to install  the solar  panel system and take out a loan with Creation unless she had 
been led to believe  that it would be self-funding and come at no additional cost to her.
Ive considered the paperwork that was given to Ms B when she agreed to the installation of 
the solar panels.  One of the documents that had been  provided  appears to be a personal 
illustration for Ms B. It lists the expected  annual benefits to Ms B from the FIT and electricity 
savings to be around £990.  The same  document also shows  a lifetime benefit  of 
approximately £50,000 over 20 years again  made  up of FIT and electricity bill savings. There 
is also a graph to show when  the solar panel system  wouldve provided  enough  benefit  to 
offset their cost. This shows a payback  period  of seven years and is based  on the price Ms 
Bs paid.
Taking all of the above into account, I believe it is more likely  than not that the salesperson  
for G led Ms B to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding  and the income and 
savings would be sufficient to cover the repayments required under the loan agreement.
Im of the opinion that for the solar panels  to be self-funding, and come at no additional cost 
to Ms B, the savings and income she would receive  should have been sufficient to cover  the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
For clarity,  Ms Bs expected savings  and income  from the solar panels  are from:
(1)generation income tariff,
Ref: DRN92216813(2)export tariff income, and;
(3)savings to Ms B by using the electricity generated by the panels rather  than buying  it 
from her energy provider.
On the personal  illustration discussed  above,  the total return form the above  three  items,  in 
the first year,  was £990. My understanding is that when G arrived  to install  the solar panels 
they couldnt place as many panels on the roof as first expected.  So, Ms B was given a 
revised figure of £658. The loan payments were about £1,085 a year.
Taking these figures into account Ms B was likely to be out of pocket  by about £100 in the 
first year based on the original figure and, around  £430 in the first year based on the revised 
expectations. And these  figures would broadly be the same  during the term of the loan.  This 
means that based  on either figure, the solar  panels werent self-funding.  So, Im satisfied that 
G misrepresented the benefits to Ms B.
Ms B didnt have any previous experience of solar  panel systems and was approached  by G. 
Im satisfied that Ms B decided to go ahead with the solar  panel system based on the 
representation made  by G that the system  would be self-funding. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I find that Ms B has suffered a loss as a result  of the 
misrepresentation made by G. The system  wasnt self-funding and Ms B has ended  up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability  for the 
misrepresentation made by G, I find that it is responsible for Ms Bs loss.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
My view of Ms Bs complaint is that it isnt so much  about the solar  panels themselves but 
that she was led to believe that they would be self-funding. In a situation like this, I wouldnt 
necessarily think that it would be fair and reasonable to require the removal  of the solar  
panels from Ms Bs home. I would consider a fair outcome would  be to put Ms B in a position 
where the solar  panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan.
But, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied that this would be fair. 
The solar  panels  are no longer installed,  and Ms B isnt receiving  any benefit by way of FIT 
or savings  from them. I accept that G has offered  to reinstall the panels for Ms B at a later 
date, but she is currently  in rented accommodation and therefore unable to have the panels  
reinstalled. And even  if she were  to have them reinstalled, she would no longer be able to 
receive FIT payments. My understanding is that as she had previously registered  for FIT 
payments at a previous address, she would be unable to reregister  at a new address. And G 
explained this to her before it removed the panels.
Ive considered Creations  position that it was Ms Bs choice to have the panels removed 
from her previous home.  Its suggested that Ms B couldve arranged for her ex-husband to 
settle the loan agreement  or she could have arranged for him to pay the benefits to her. But 
this isnt what happened, and my understanding is that the divorce wasnt amicable, so Ms B 
felt she had no choice  but to pay G to remove the panels.   
Therefore, Ive thought carefully on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the particular circumstances  of this complaint. The current situation  is that the solar panels  
Ref: DRN92216814are in storage and have been so for the last two years.  During this time Ms B hasnt received 
any benefits from the solar panels and has fallen into arrears with her loan agreement.  And 
as Ive explained above, even if at some point in the future Ms B was able to have the panels  
reinstalled, she would no longer be able to receive  FIT payments. 
Ive also considered that the solar panels  have already been removed from Ms Bs previous 
home, and my understanding is that she paid G a fee of around  £500 to do this. This amount 
is significantly lower than what I have  seen on similar cases where a finance  provider has 
paid for solar  panel systems to be removed. So, Ive taken  into account that Creation 
wouldnt have to arrange for the solar panels to be removed or be required to make good  
any damage to the roof when deciding  what I think is fair compensation in this case.  
Taking everything Ive set out above,  I think the fair and reasonable outcome, in the 
particular circumstances  of this complaint, would be for Creation to put Ms B back in the 
position she would have been in if there  had been no misrepresentation. And I am of the 
opinion that if it wasnt for the misrepresentation that the solar panel  system would be self-
funding and come  at no additional  financial cost to her, Ms B wouldnt have agreed to have 
them installed and enter into the finance  agreement.
This means,  to put Ms B back in the position she would have been in, Creation should 
unwind the loan agreement, refund any monthly  payments Ms B has made and remove any 
record of the loan agreement from her credit file. As Ms B also wouldnt have also incurred 
the additional expense of paying G to remove the solar  panels from her previous home, Im 
satisfied that Creation  should also refund this amount to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
(a)unwind the loan agreement,
(b)refund  the monthly repayment Ms B has made, minus any benefits she has received 
from the solar panels,
(c)add 8% simple interest* a year to each refunded sum from the date each payment 
was made to the date of settlement,
(d)arrange for the removal  of any records of the loan from any external credit records for 
Ms B, and;
(e)refund  Ms B the money she paid to have  the solar panels  removed, adding  8% 
simple interest* a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92216815*If Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much itss taken off. It should 
also give Ms B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9221681