K821x#15complaint
Ms D has complained about her building warranty provider National House-Building 
Council (NHBC). Shes had problems  with her home since  moving in in 2014 and it hasnt 
resolved them.
background
Ms D has had problems most  notably  with the pointing and ventilation in her home. 
Theres also been an issue  regarding external painting and, following some  remedial  work  
in that respect,  window  seals. NHBC has been dealing with the issues  for several years, 
although for at least some  of that time it was only acting  as a mediator between  Ms D and 
the developer.
In July 2017, following  receipt of three  final responses from NHBC, Ms D complained to 
this service.  Whilst we were gathering evidence and considering  Ms Ds complaint NHBC 
issued a further  three final responses. I then issued a provisional  jurisdiction  decision 
because I needed  to explain, due to NHBC only having been a mediator at times, what 
exactly I felt I could consider. Following  the parties acceptance of my provisional findings 
a final jurisdiction decision was issued. My conclusion was:
So in respect of the;
Pointing, I can assess and take into account  what happened and what distress and 
inconvenience was caused from 9 October  2015 and until the final response on
13 March 2018.
External painting,  I can assess and take into account  what happened and what  distress 
and inconvenience  was caused  from 17 February  2017 and until the final response on
13 March 2018.
Ventilation and insulation, I can assess and take into account what  happened and what  
distress and inconvenience was caused  from 2 September  2016 and until the final 
response on 13 March  2018.
I also said that Id look at any financial losses Ms D had suffered during these periods as a 
result of NHBCs failures.
At the point  of NHBCs sixth final response issued  in March 2018,  it had offered and paid 
Ms D a total of £1,800  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience it had caused her. 
In the March 2018 final response,  and because NHBC fully expected further work to 
commence in the summer of 2018,  it offered to pay a further  £1,000 in recognition of the 
further upset that would  cause. Ms D didnt accept this offer and the sum wasnt paid.
Ms D provided detail of evidence of financial losses. She said shed had to attend  four 
meetings which  had involved her taking a half days unpaid  leave  each time.  She said her 
partner, who had mostly handled  matters,  had attended dozens  of meetings and made 
various visits to allow  work to be done.  She explained hed travelled to and from his home 
each time,  a distance  of a few hundred miles.  She provided her payslips and asked that 
her partners travel costs be paid.
NHBC considered Ms Ds requests. It said in respect of the four meetings she had 
attended; two were  the initial mediation meetings  and two were to allow it to review work 
done by the developer. In its view none  of these meetings had occurred  due to its failures 
Ref: DRN97768072so it didnt need to consider reimbursing  Ms D for any losses  she may have  had. And it 
said it wouldnt take Ms Ds partners losses into account because  he wasnt named on 
the warranty.
I then issued a provisional decision  to consider the merits  of Ms Ds complaint based on 
what Id set out in my jurisdiction decision in October 2018. My provisional findings were.
Ms Ds partner
Ms Ds partner isnt named on the warranty. He isnt a customer  of NHBC. That means he 
isnt an eligible complainant under the rules  that govern this service.  Because he isnt an 
eligible complainant I cant make any finding  about how NHBC has treated him or how 
NHBCs actions  have  affected him. I cant make any award in respect of him or his 
reported losses. My consideration has to remain  strictly with how NHBCs actions affected  
Ms D.
Ms Ds financial  losses
I dont agree  with NHBC that all four meetings  that Ms D attended werent  related  to its 
failures. However, nor am I currently minded to make it pay anything in this respect.
The first two meetings Ms D detailed do fall outside of my consideration. These  occurred 
in July and November 2016 as part of NHBCs mediation activity. The July meeting was in 
respect of the ventilation issue and, as set out above, my consideration regarding  this 
issue can only start from 2 September 2016.  The November meeting was regarding  the 
painting issue and, as set out above,  my consideration regarding this issue  can only start 
from 17 February 2017.
The second  two meetings  though took place in late February and early August 2017.  Both 
were within the periods  Im able to consider. NHBC says it isnt responsible because the 
meetings were to do with poor work  carried out by the developer.  Im satisfied that as the 
developer was carrying out work  during the period of NHBCs  regulated activity, NHBC is 
responsible for what went on. Therefore, the meetings were only necessary  as a result  of 
NHBCs failure to resolve the issues by continued use of the developer. The meetings 
wouldnt have been necessary if work had been  done to standard.  So Ms D was caused 
inconvenience by having to take time off to participate in the meetings. And Ive taken this 
into account when  Ive considered compensation for distress and inconvenience  below.
However, Im not minded  to make NHBC pay Ms D for reported  lost wages. I note from 
the contract  detail Ms D sent us that her employer allowed her five weeks  paid holiday per 
year. And Ms D has said she took a half days leave for each meeting. Ms D hasnt been 
able to show me that this leave was taken on an unpaid basis.  Im not convinced  then that 
two half days over the course of a year, where the annual leave entitlement  is five weeks, 
would have necessitated unpaid leave being taken.
compensation for distress  and inconvenience
Im satisfied that NHBC should  have  taken a more direct role in each of the claim issues 
much earlier than it did do. Its regulated activity  in respect of each began at the dates Ive 
set out above but mostly it left Ms D to deal with the developer and allowed the developer 
to set the pace of work as well as determine repairs. I think  shes  suffered as a result of 
that and the delays and poor work occasioned by the developer during these periods are 
Ref: DRN97768073seen to be those  of NHBC because  in carrying out its regulated  activity  it was utilising the 
developer.
The issue  regarding the pointing has caused  Ms D the most upset. It is also the issue in 
respect of which NHBC  has been carrying out a regulated  activity  for the longest time. As
I said above NHBCs  regulated activity regarding this issue began  in October 2015. But 
the issue, to the point of the March 2018  response, has never  been  resolved.  Work  was 
often delayed, done in a piecemeal fashion and to a poor standard.  This meant  that during 
the summers  of 2016 and 2017 Ms D had to put up with scaffolding surrounding her 
home, lots of dust and mess. Work  and re-work has had to be done. Ms Ds garden was 
affected and relations with her neighbour have, at times, suffered too.
The stress of trying to manage all of the work has had its toll too. And the other  claim 
issues, in respect of the dates that apply as Ive said above, have also been on-going  
through at least part of that time as well. Ms Ds partner has managed the work but that 
wont have shielded Ms D from the upset and inconvenience of having her house in 
disarray. And because  repairs have been  going  on throughout such an extended period I 
dont doubt this has had an effect on Ms Ds everyday life, not to mention planning and 
taking holidays.
Having taken everything into account, and whilst  I accept that NHBC has tried to 
compensate Ms D at times, I dont think the total it has paid so far fairly and reasonably  
makes up for what shes been through. In my view fair compensation for Ms D, for upset 
caused by failures  of NHBC during the periods set out above, totals £3,500.
So far NHBC has paid £1,800. Ive discounted from my considerations the further  £1,000 
offered in March  2018 as this was offered  against  expected future upset. What happened 
after March 2018, including any claim outcomes  that have been reached, will have to be 
considered as part of a separate complaint. The payments NHBC have made to date do 
equate in my view to compensation. NHBC in its final responses has explained  that
compensation isnt payable  under the warranty. Ms D has argued, therefore, that the 
payments it has made arent compensation. However, whatever term is applied to the 
payments made they were paid with a view to apologising for upset caused. So Im 
satisfied they can fairly  be said to be compensation. Im, therefore,  minded to say NHBC 
should now pay Ms D a further £1,700  compensation (£3,500  minus  the £1,800 already 
paid).
responses to my provisional  decision
NHBC said the meetings  in February  and August 2017 were necessary. It said the £1,000 
it offered in March wasnt for future inconvenience,  it feels the wording of its letter may 
have created some misunderstanding. NHBC said that not all of the delay in this claim 
was avoidable,  some occurred because the work was weather dependant. 
Ms D provided a report in respect of the structural integrity of her property. She said this 
showed NHBC had been wrong about  the strength of the mortar all along. Ms D asked 
that this report is considered now as a part of this complaint and a decision made on what  
needs to be done to repair her home.  She believes this also shows  that NHBC has 
knowingly hidden parts of its experts report for years which has meant theyve been left 
living in an unsafe  home.
Ref: DRN97768074Ms D said she feels stuck  in a loop  repairs  are still outstanding, if they complain NHBC 
considers that and makes a goodwill payment, meanwhile the repairs remain  outstanding 
and the cycle begins again. She feels  stuck with no good options  and no way out. This is 
now affecting her health. She just wants something resolving.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The meetings were necessary  NHBC had to check the work the developer  had done.  
However, and regardless  of Ms Ds willingness to keep using the developer,  the meetings 
arguably wouldnt have  been necessary if NHBC had properly taken over the claim earlier. 
But, in any event, I said I wasnt  minded to make  NHBC reimburse Ms Ds lost wages.
Regardless of what NHBCs intent was behind the £1,000 compensation offer  it was only 
ever an offer. It wasnt  paid.  Therefore, even  if I accept  it offered a further £1,000  for the 
period up to March  2018 (which I dont) it wouldnt change the outcome of what  I think  NHBC 
now has to pay  because  that sum was never paid.
The nature of the pointing  work  means it cant be done in the winter  months.  That in no way 
answers for the number of years  over which this claim  has been on-going up to the point of 
NHBCs March  2018 response. That is down to NHBCs poor management  of the situation  
and the developer  effectively working as NHBCs agent during the regulated  activity  period 
 failing to complete satisfactory works. That has caused Ms D significant distress and 
inconvenience.
Part of that upset  has come from not knowing what is needed to repair  the home and not 
feeling able to trust NHBCs  expert  view as to the stability  of the property.  We now have 
further expert evidence  that needs considering in this respect but that wont change what 
Ms D has already been through and suffered. I dont make punitive  awards.  So whether an 
insurer fails a policyholder due to an understandable oversight or complete outright 
negligence doesnt change the award I make. Rather my awards are based on what the 
complainant went  through as a result  of the failure  howsoever caused.
I do understand that Ms D wants this sorting  once and for all but Im satisfied that it isnt 
possible to do that within this complaint. My decisions  in respect of what I could look at, 
issued in September and October  2018,  explained  that Id be considering the distress  and 
inconvenience Ms D had been  caused,  along with any financial loss shed had. That was at 
least in part because  at the point of NHBCs last response in March  2018 it was clear that 
further repair investigations were going  to be undertaken. The situation had moved on by the 
time of the two decisions Ive mentioned here.  But I explained in those that I could only look 
at what had happened up until March 2018.
I appreciate that in that March 2018 response  NHBC did state it was confident that based on 
its experts report, that Ms Ds house was stable. And I know  Ms D says the recent  report 
belies that. But that was issued in January 2019. And a lot of activity has occurred  in 
between. Even at the time of my September  2018  decision, Ms Ds response was that the 
structural integrity of her home was still under review. So at that point, when I made my 
decision in October 2018  about  what it was I was going to consider about Ms Ds complaint, 
it was inappropriate  for me to bring the repairs and what I felt fairly and reasonably  needed 
doing as a result into that. I cant fairly  change  the goalposts on that now.
Ref: DRN97768075What I can do, and what I have already ensured has been put into action, is for another 
complaint to be raised for Ms D which looks at what has gone on since  March  2018 and, 
now that the situation regarding repairs has progressed, will look at what  NHBC fairly and 
reasonably needs to do to reinstate Ms Ds home. Ive spoken to our investigator and I can 
assure Ms D that we are prioritising  her complaint and well do everything we can to move 
that along as quickly  as possible. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint in part. I dont make any award regarding financial losses,  or what  
needs doing to repair Ms Ds home,  but I do require National House-Building Council to 
pay Ms D a further £1,700 compensation for the upset it has caused her (making  total 
compensation paid by it for the period subject to this decision, £3,500).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9776807