K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them two packaged 
bank accounts.  They paid a monthly  fee for the accounts which  provided several benefits in 
return.
background
Mr and Mrs Fs account was opened  in 1987. Lloyds earliest records  show  that it was a fee-
free Classic account in September 2001. 
The account  was first upgraded to a Platinum packaged account  in May 2006. It was 
upgraded again, to a Premier account,  in March 2009 and this became a Premier Vantage 
account in July 2009. The Vantage part of the Premier account didnt cost extra  and from 
what I know, only provided enhanced interest  rates.
The Premier Vantage  account package was removed and the account reverted to a 
Club Lloyds account  in June 2014.
Our adjudicators didnt  think that Lloyds mis-sold the packaged accounts  to Mr and Mrs F 
and didnt recommend that Lloyds should pay them any compensation. Mr and Mrs F didnt 
agree so they asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think  the packaged bank 
accounts were mis-sold  to them. Ill explain why.
When they raised their complaint Mr and Mrs F made a number of points in relation to 
whether they had a fair choice about  upgrading their account. Ive thought very carefully 
about all of those  points, and in particular  I note that theyve said their account was 
upgraded without  their knowledge or consent.  I note from the initial complaint they raised 
with Lloyds that they said they werent  told about  the availability of fee-free accounts, they 
were told theyd have  to take a packaged account in order to get a loan, overdraft or 
mortgage. They also say that they were told they were ineligible for fee-free accounts. 
Ref: DRN99022322were Mr and Mrs F given  a fair choice?
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs F were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged accounts.
From what  Ive seen I dont think Mr and Mrs F needed to be told about the availability of 
fee-free accounts.  Theyd  already held one for almost twenty years by the time their account 
was upgraded  for the first time. I also havent seen anything to suggest theyd have believed 
they had to upgrade in order to take some sort of lending; neither party  has given me any 
information to make me think  thats  the case. And Lloyds says its not able to see any 
lending applications  or any changes to their overdraft around the time of this upgrade.
Lloyds has provided  a note from its records from the day Mr and Mrs Fs account was 
upgraded to the Platinum account. The note,  whilst  brief,  does persuade me that at least  one 
of them  was present  when  the upgrade took place.  It also refers to a Lloyds employee 
arranging to call Mrs F a few days later, to discuss booking an appointment.
Mr and Mrs F dispute that they were present at the time the account was upgraded. They  
say that Lloyds records back this up, as Lloyds appears to have upgraded their account and 
then tried to book an appointment in for months afterwards in an effort to cover up the mis-
selling.
Having thought about this, I dont agree that Lloyds  notes  after the upgrade  suggest  it tried 
to defraud anyone  or cover  up any wrongdoing.  I think its more  likely that the note relating to 
arranging an appointment was a referral to another staff member, to discuss a different 
banking product  possibly  some  form of investment or lending. And I cant  agree that any of 
the notes Ive seen suggest Lloyds chased  Mrs F for months in relation to the packaged 
account. The next note (in September 2006) appears to relate  to a quote for a loan, and 
whilst theres a note in November 2006  which says appointment declined  theres  nothing  to 
suggest this relates  to the packaged account  sold some five months  earlier.
Turning to the upgrade to the Premier  account, Ive also reviewed Lloyds contact history. 
The notes again  suggest that a discussion took place, and that Mr and Mrs F upgraded for 
the additions benefits it offered. The note also makes reference to a YPSOR (Your 
Personal Summary  of Recommendations) being  completed; I dont think this couldve  been 
done without at least one of Mr or Mrs F knowing about it. 
Although I havent  seen  the YPSOR in full, Ive seen an extract  of it. So Im satisfied that it 
was completed and it looks as though Mr and Mrs F chose to take the Premier account for 
the Identity Theft Protection it provided.  Its impossible for me to know  how full the 
conversation was, or what exactly was discussed during it, but I do think its more likely than 
not that it took place.
Ive again reviewed Lloyds system notes around  the date of the Premier  upgrade.  The 
following notes  dated June and July 2009  again  dont  relate  to the sale of the Premier 
account. So I also cant agree here that Lloyds  tried to cover its tracks after the sale.
Ref: DRN99022323I also note that Mr and Mrs F say they were pressured into the upgrades, and there was no 
cooling-off period.  But as Ive explained,  theyd previously held a fee-free account,  and I 
think its more likely  than not that they were aware they couldve kept that if they wanted to. 
After upgrading,  had they wanted to, they couldve downgraded  from the packaged accounts 
at any time. Ive not seen anything to suggest they wanted to, or asked  to do this, and 
werent able to.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs F had a fair choice about 
upgrading their account on both occasions, and they chose to do so. Given  the varied nature 
of their complaint  points  Im not persuaded that they were left with no option  but to upgrade,  
and the evidence Ive seen points  to the fact that some sort of discussions place; even if 
Mr and Mrs F dont  now remember them.
did Lloyds make a fair recommendation?
Lloyds recommended the packaged accounts  to Mr and Mrs F. So it had to make  sure that 
their benefits  were a reasonable  fit for their circumstances. Thats  to say, it needed to make 
sure the benefits  were  appropriate for their needs and there wasnt  anything  unusual about 
them that wouldve  prevented them from being able to use them.
Lloyds says it completed a YPSOR at the time of both sales. Ive seen extracts  of these  and 
it looks as though the Platinum account  was recommended  for the travel  insurance and car 
breakdown cover it provided. And as Ive said, it looks as though the Premier  account  was 
recommended for Identity  Theft  Protection.
Mr and Mrs F first used  the Platinum accounts  benefits in 2006 when they called the 
breakdown cover provided for a Home  Start callout. The records Ive seen also suggest 
they used the Home  Start service again  in 2011,  and again for a recovery in 2012.
Mr and Mrs F dispute using the breakdown cover. They say they already had more 
comprehensive cover  in place. They also say the car registration used was their sons car, 
and although he didnt live with them, was still registered as living at their address.
Lloyds has provided  information from the breakdown  provider to show  that the first two 
breakdown callouts were  made from Mr and Mrs Fs home phone  number  and were  for 
Home Start callouts. The second was made from Mr Fs mobile, and I note the recovery  
service was used, as opposed to Home Start.
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs F continued to hold duplicate  breakdown  cover  for all of the 
time they held their packaged accounts. But it appears that based on their engagement with 
this benefit, they were  relying on the cover  at least to some extent. And given the origin of 
the phone  calls used  to make the claims, Im not persuaded  that Mr and Mrs F didnt use the 
cover.
Mr and Mrs F also say they didnt have expensive mobile  phones  that wouldve warranted 
being covered  by a separate insurance policy. They explain that their phones wouldve been  
covered by their home contents  cover.  
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Mr and Mrs F registered several phones against the 
mobile phone insurance  policies  provided  by their packaged accounts. The first phone was 
registered in July 2006, and a further  six were  registered in the years following that. 
Ref: DRN99022324I understand that Mr and Mrs F might not have wanted, or indeed used all of the benefits of 
their packaged accounts. And in particular I note that they didnt hold passports  at the time of 
the first upgrade,  and they say they didnt afterwards. So whilst I understand they might not 
have wanted to use the accounts travel insurance  for overseas travel,  that doesnt mean 
that they were  ineligible for the insurance,  should  they ever have wanted to use it. Nor does 
it mean that they couldnt have used  it for travel  within the United Kingdom. So this doesnt 
make me think Lloyds recommendation was unsuitable or unfair. 
Having considered the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds recommended  suitable 
packaged accounts based on what it knew about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time. I 
havent seen anything to suggest the recommendations it made were wholly  inappropriate 
for them, and whilst they may not agree, its clear they were able to rely on at least  some of 
the insurance benefits, to some extent, over several years.  So I think Lloyds 
recommendations were  fair.
did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs F enough  information?
As well as making fair recommendations, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs F enough clear 
information about the packaged accounts  for them to decide  if they wanted  them.  
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I also think  that Mr and Mrs F were given information 
about, and were interested in some  of the benefits of the packaged accounts, and chose 
them because of these  benefits. I accept that they may not have used  all the benefits,  and 
with hindsight they might not think the accounts have been good  value  for money  to them.  
But this in itself doesnt mean Lloyds mis-sold the accounts and doesnt make me think 
Lloyds should  uphold their complaint.
I also fully accept that its possible Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs F everything it should have 
about the packaged accounts. But I havent seen  enough to make me think  that 
Mr and Mrs F wouldnt still have taken the account even if Lloyds had told them  more  about 
them. 
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs F that Ive looked at all the information  I have  about  their 
complaint. And although I havent listed each  and every point individually,  Ive thought 
carefully about everything theyve said. But having  done so I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Platinum and Premier accounts to them. So Lloyds doesnt need to put anything  right.
I know that Mr and Mrs F feel strongly  about  their complaint so Im sure this will come as a 
disappointment to them. But I hope they understand the reasons for my decision.
Ref: DRN99022325my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9902232