K822xcomplaint
Mr J is unhappy about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) has administered 
his mortgage account. He says that it unfairly declined to extend a payment  arrangement  
and reported incorrect information about the account to credit reference agencies.
background 
Mr J was declared bankrupt  in April 2015  and discharged in April 2016.  When  Mr Js fixed 
rate deal came to an end that year, he approached Halifax for a new deal  but it declined to 
offer one. So his mortgage revered to the banks standard variable rate, and his monthly  
payments increased.
When Mr J complained about that, Halifax  accepted  it couldve looked at ways to help him. 
So it put in place a payment arrangement, under which Mr J was paying the contractual 
monthly payment  (CMP) that had been  due previously and which  hed been  able to manage.  
And it applied that retrospectively, clearing the arrears that had built up. It also said it would 
amend Mr Js credit file accordingly.  As Mr J was intending to sell the property, it was agreed 
that he would call back as this progressed to discuss what  assistance  the bank could offer 
while that was ongoing. 
The payment plan was subsequently extended until April 2018.
In May 2018, Mr J contacted us. He said that Halifax had made errors in how it was reporting 
the account to credit  reference agencies  and the adverse  information  had prevented  him 
from being able to rent or remortgage elsewhere.  He wanted that put right,  and for Halifax to 
continue to accept  the reduced  payments in line with the now-expired  arrangement.
We explained that we couldnt consider  any of the issues  relating to Mr Js first complaint 
back in 2017,  as theyd not been  referred to us in time. So our investigator only looked into 
the issue of Mr Js credit file and considered whether Halifax  ought to have extended  the 
payment arrangement further. In summary, she said that:
Halifax had accepted errors in how Mr Js mortgage was reported  to credit reference  
agencies. It showed defaults when it ought to have  been  noted as partially settled 
prior to Mr Js discharge from bankruptcy. But on reviewing Mr Js credit  file, she 
thought that had been corrected.
Halifax had failed  to update the account  balance  from April 2016 onwards, neglecting 
to report that Mr J was maintaining payments.  She recommended that Halifax correct 
this, removing any suggestion of missed payments   and pay Mr J compensation of 
£500 for the trouble  and upset the issued  had caused. But she didnt think this had 
been the cause of Mr Js difficulty in sourcing a new mortgage,  noting other adverse 
information on Mr Js credit  file and bearing in mind the effect  of the bankruptcy itself.
She didnt think Halifax had unfairly declined Mr Js request for a further extension to 
the payment arrangement.  It had already taken  reasonable steps to help Mr J with 
the reduced payments for two years since his fixed rate expired, on the basis  that 
hed look to sell the property. 
Ref: DRN97965792Halifax accepted  our investigators  view, but Mr J didnt. He maintained  that hed have been 
able to remortgage were  it not for Halifaxs  errors and that a new interest rate deal ought to 
have been made available  to him.
So with no resolution to the complaint, it was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for much  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Errors on Mr Js credit file
Halifax has accepted  that it made errors  in the way information about Mr Js mortgage 
account was reported to (and recorded by) credit reference agencies. I agree that it did  
both in how the mortgage was reported  prior to Mr J being discharged  from his bankruptcy, 
and after.  I appreciate Mr Js understandable frustration and disappointment at what have 
been repeated  errors in this respect.  From what Ive seen, Halifax has already made 
necessary corrections to the former  but Ive not seen evidence to confirm the changes in 
respect of the latter. So for completeness, if it hasnt already done so Halifax  will need to 
ensure that Mr Js payment history and mortgage balance are reported accurately with any 
necessary retrospective  amendments.
The remaining  issue  with this aspect of Mr Js complaint is how to fairly compensate  him for 
the impact of these  errors. Mr J says that the negative information  on his credit file led to him 
being unable  to secure a new mortgage elsewhere. But I dont think  theres enough evidence 
to support that. Mr Js credit rating  would  have been just one factor in any application  for 
new borrowing. And similarly, the erroneous  information recorded  by Halifax  on his credit file 
wouldve been just one element of his credit  rating.  Having reviewed a copy  of Mr Js credit 
file, there  were a number  of other adverse  entries  that wouldve influenced this. Even if I 
were to accept they were  all incorrect as Mr J suggests, the matter  of his bankruptcy  being 
just three  years ago when  this issue arose   would likely have been a significant barrier to 
alternative mortgage finance. So I dont  think Halifaxs errors denied  Mr J the option of 
remortgaging.
While I dont think Mr J has suffered a financial loss due to these issues,  I do think theyve 
caused him some concern. Hes seen these credit  file entries as a potential barrier  to him 
moving on and I think those were legitimate worries, even if I dont agree that theyve 
ultimately had an impact on the situation. Its also taken him substantial time and trouble to 
get Halifax to put things  right, on the back of other similar issues hed already experienced. 
So its right that hes compensated for that trouble and upset. To that end, I think the £500 
Halifax has already  offered  is fair. 
Halifaxs refusal to offer a further  arrangement  or new product
I dont think Halifax was ever obliged to override its usual credit  checks  and overlook Mr Js 
bankruptcy to offer him a new deal. Its common practice for preferential interest rate 
products to depend  on a borrowers payment history,  and a recent  bankruptcy will 
legitimately be taken  into account in such a decision.
Ref: DRN97965793Rather, I think  it wouldve  been fair for Halifax to consider  in light of Mr Js individual 
circumstances  what it could offer to help. On the understanding that Mr J was selling the 
property, the bank agreed to accept reduced payments (those which  Mr J had previously 
been making under his old deal)  as a measure of forbearance. It did that from April 2016 to 
April 2018. I think that was reasonable. It gave Mr J the opportunity to explore other options, 
including the sale of the property that he said he was arranging   in the knowledge that this 
was a temporary measure  and that payments would ultimately increase in April 2018.  I dont  
think I could reasonable require it to have extended  this further.
Mr J considers it to be Halifaxs fault that he wasnt able to fulfil his plan to move or 
refinance, on the basis of the credit  file issues. But as Ive not found that to be the case, I 
dont think it was then unfair for the mortgage  to revert to the interest rate payable under the 
terms of his mortgage agreement. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint and, where its not already done so, 
require Bank  of Scotland plc to:
Ensure the mortgage  account is accurately reported on Mr Js credit file, making any 
corrections necessary to the payment history and mortgage balance; and
Pay Mr J compensation of £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9796579