K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Arthur J. Gallagher  Insurance Brokers Limited (AJG)  overcharged  him 
for his buildings insurance policy. He also complains that he was misled into believing  the 
policy it had arranged was the most competitively priced one available. 
 
background
In August  2011,  Mr W purchased a flat in a block that had been the subject of a subsidence 
claim in 2003. Mr W inherited responsibility  for arranging the buildings insurance for the 2 
flats in the block. He contacted the broker, (which was later acquired  by AJG) who had 
arranged the insurance prior to his purchase,  to discuss  the policy.  He says he was told that 
no other insurance company would offer cover due to the existence  of the previous 
subsidence claim. So he accepted the quote  proposed by AJG paying an annual premium of 
approximately £2,200.
 
When the policy came up for the renewal each year until 2015, Mr W received renewal 
invitations from AJG that included a statement at the start of the covering letter that said:
 "Following a review of the market, we can advise that your existing policy  remains 
competitive based  on our information." 
Further into the quotation it said:
 We may limit the number of providers  we ask to those we use for selected types of 
insurance through our own specialist facilities or via specialist intermediaries 
In April 2015, having received a renewal pack advising him the forthcoming years premium  
would be £2,500.53, Mr W was asked by another broker (which  was arranging  a different 
policy for him) if it could quote for his buildings insurance policy for the block of flats.  It 
offered to provide cover for the substantially  lower premium of £793.12 which Mr W took out.
Mr W complained  to AJG. He said AJG had misinformed him about  his options which 
resulted in him being overcharged  for his insurance.  He said hed been  reassured by the 
statement AJG made in the renewal documents that it had reviewed the market and his 
existing policy remained competitive. 
AJG looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It said it 
wasnt possible to compare Mr Ws new policy with the one itd arranged  for him. It said it 
never claimed the policy it arranged was the best value or the cheapest.  It said it did have 
relationships with certain insurers that allowed it to offer products it believed to be good  
value in their own right.  It also said it regularly reviewed its panel  of insurers.  And AJG said 
that the renewal  documents made it clear that its recommendation was based on a limited 
number of insurers which, it said, implied  cheaper policies may be available elsewhere in the 
market. It said it couldnt  offer to re-quote  for him because none of the other insurers  on its 
panel had been able to provide a quote.  
Unhappy with AJGs comments,  Mr W complained to this service.  He said hed accepted 
what AJG had told him in good faith so was amazed to discover he could get cover for 
approximately a third of the price AJG was quoting. He said the only discernible difference in 
cover was that the policy excess on the new policy was set at £2,500  whereas the policy 
Ref: DRN93479702AJG quoted had an excess  of £1,000. Finally he said hed suffered a financial loss as a 
result of what hed been told by AJG.  
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ws complaint. AJG said to him that it was always  possible 
that an insurer not on its panel  could  have offered cheaper cover  but that was why it was 
careful not to make  any assurances about the price.  It also said Mr W had never indicated 
he was price sensitive. 
Our adjudicator thought that AJGs  statement in the renewal documents  that it had reviewed 
the market and that the policy remained competitive was misleading.  He also thought  that 
information in the terms of business  section  was confusing; on the one hand it suggested 
AJG had access to the whole insurance market  and on the other that it may limit its 
consideration to a single  insurer. Our adjudicator accepted that Mr W was left with the 
impression that the policy AJG arranged was the only, and cheapest, option available. 
Our adjudicator said that despite  finding  that AJG had misled  Mr W, there was no proof  he 
couldve obtained cover  at each renewal from 2012  onwards at the price he ultimately  
obtained in 2015. So he couldnt reasonably say that the advice Mr W had got from AJG had 
financially prejudiced  him. He told Mr W that if he could produce any evidence to show  that, 
then hed reconsider his findings. 
In response, Mr W said that hed been  presented with an impossible task as no insurer could  
provide him with retrospective quotes. He asked for his complaint to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
AJG also replied to say that whilst it advised  Mr W that his premium was competitive,  that 
was not the same as saying it was the cheapest. It said the policy offered provided a good 
balance of features  and cost. 
In the meantime, Mr Ws complaint was re-allocated to another adjudicator.. That adjudicator 
reassessed the complaint taking into account  the parties comments.. He too thought the 
information provided by AJG had been misleading  and that Mr W had trusted what  hed been  
told, meaning he thought there  was no need for him to check  the market himself.  So our 
second adjudicator thought that Mr W had in fact lost out financially over the years. He 
recommended that AJG pay Mr W the difference between what he paid in 2015 and the 
amount he paid for his policy in 2012, 2013  and 2014 together  with interest at this services 
usual rate. 
AJG responded to say that it objected to paying  interest to the date of settlement given that 
this complaint had been with our service  for some  time whilst we carried out a wider  review 
into insurance pricing practices in the industry. It said it didnt think  it was fair for our 
adjudicator to ask it to pay for this period  of delay. It also said that the two policies werent 
directly comparable. It said the renewals Mr W was offered were invitations only and that he 
was under no obligation to accept them if he was unhappy with the price.  It said that Mr W 
had never  approached them about  the price  so it cant  have been  an issue  for him. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint again.  He said he accepted the new policy  Mr W 
found in 2015 probably included a new customer discount so it was unlikely his premium  
wouldve remained at the same level indefinitely. On reflection, he thought that reimbursing 
the difference between what Mr W actually  paid for the three years the policy  renewed  and 
the premium he got in 2015, may amount to more than his actual loss. So he recommended 
a higher premium  of £1,100 as the starting  point for calculating redress  in order to reflect  
Ref: DRN93479703premium rises that wouldve likely occurred. He wasnt persuaded to change his mind  about 
the interest he was recommending AJG pay. 
AJG disagreed again with our adjudicators findings  and said it was completely  relevant 
whether or not the policies offered comparable cover when trying  to meaningfully compare 
premiums. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think that this is a complaint that should 
be upheld. Ill explain why. 
the renewal documentation
I agree  with our adjudicators that the documentation AJG sent to Mr W was misleading and 
confusing. The quote Ive cited  at the start of the background section above implies that a 
review of the market has taken place. But further into the renewal document  appears 
confirmation that AJG only looks at a range of insurers. That in turn could reasonably be said 
to conflict with the claim that the policy is competitive. Claiming competitiveness  implies  
there is something being competed  with. In fact, AJG was only looking at a single  insurer  for 
Mr W.
I think its reasonable to assume that the assurances given within the documentation,  
coupled with the assurance that no other insurer (by which its also reasonable to think  is 
meant, no other insurer on our panel)  was prepared to offer cover,  persuaded Mr W he 
need not check the market; indeed there was no point  in doing so. 
So Mr W relied on the assurances given to him by AJG and may have continued to do so 
had another broker,  who was providing him with a quote for something  entirely  unrelated in 
2015, not offered to get him a quote for his building insurance too. 
So, on balance, I think that the documentation was misleading so that Mr W thought  there 
was no point in him checking the market  and getting alternative quotes. It prejudiced his 
ability to obtain  cheaper quotes  and make significant savings sooner. As soon as Mr W was 
aware there  may be cheaper  policies  on the market he moved his cover. And I think  its 
reasonable to assume that he wouldve done  so sooner but for the misleading statements in 
the renewal documentation. He suffered a loss of opportunity.
I also appreciate that the renewal invitations  were just invitations.  But the wording used 
within them  implied  that the market  had been reviewed and the policy was competitive. 
Indeed, Ive seen AJGs  file and noted  that in June 2015 it too was concerned about the 
information it was providing Mr W in the renewal letter. It said it was a bit concerned that the 
renewal letter says that we have reviewed  the market and the terms are competitive when in 
fact we could  only offer one insurer.
the new policy
AJG say that its wrong to assume the new policy Mr W found in 2015 was comparable  to 
the one it arranged for him. Ive seen  the 2015  policy and it had the same sum assured as 
Ref: DRN93479704the one AJG was offering.  The new policy also included enhanced cover as it provided 
additional accidental  damage cover whereas the AJG one didnt. The AJG policy didnt 
include a general  or an escape of water excess whereas the new one did along with a larger  
subsidence excess of £2,500 to AJGs  £1,000. Aside from these differences, the cover  
appears to be the same.  
But whether  or not the new policy was directly comparable or not, the assurances Mr W had 
received stopped him from reviewing the market. When  he did review  it he found  he could 
get a much cheaper  policy  which was more suitable  for him and he decided to purchase  it. I 
think its reasonable to think  that if hed been  aware earlier that he was paying more  than he 
needed to then he wouldve taken the decision  to take out cheaper cover, even if this did 
mean that cover included  larger  policy excesses. Mr W was clearly comfortable paying  a 
larger sum in the event  of a claim than he was paying a larger  annual  premium whether 
there was a claim or not. 
So its not so much a case that the policies  cant  or shouldnt be compared but rather  that 
Mr W was misled by what he was told and that in so doing he was prevented  from finding  
cheaper more suitable  cover sooner.  Im not basing this decision  on whether the policies 
were comparable. 
And whilst I note AJGs point that Mr W couldve  told it sooner that the cover itd arranged for 
him didnt  meet his needs or that he was happy  to increase his excesses, Im not persuaded 
by this point. Thats  because, right up to the time the other  broker  offered to get him a quote, 
he didnt know the policy didnt meet his needs.  He thought he had the best cover that could 
be obtained in his circumstances. So Mr W had no need to think prior to this point that he 
needed to discuss  his cover with AJG.  It wasnt the case  that he chose not to discuss it 
rather he didnt know he needed  to. 
redress
Calculating redress in complaints of this nature is far from an exact science. The fact 
remains we dont know exactly what price  Mr W couldve got cover for on the open  market 
from 2012 onwards.  We only know the price he got in 2015 and what  hes paid since. Its not 
unreasonable to think  that the price  he obtained  in 2015 included  an introductory discount  
that wouldve  been removed in subsequent years meaning the price wouldve gone up. 
Indeed, I can see that he has paid slightly more  year on year albeit nowhere near what  he 
was paying AJG. 
So I agree that its not fair to use the new premium  Mr W paid in 2015  (£793.12) as a starting  
point as doing so may mean  he receives more than his actual losses. I think  that its fair in 
these circumstances  to use a higher starting point  of £1,100. I think AJG should  pay Mr W 
compensation equal to the difference between  £1,100 and the premiums  he paid for the 
2012, 2013 and 2014 policy  years.  
interest
Mr W has been without this money for a considerable amount of time. So I think AJG should  
pay interest* at this services usual rate of 8% per year on each of the premiums Mr W paid 
from the 2012 renewal  onwards to the date AJG settles this award. 
Interest awards  arent meant to punish  financial businesses. They are made in 
acknowledgment that a complainant has been  out of pocket for a period of time. I know  this 
Ref: DRN93479705complaint was with this service for some time while  we looked into pricing complaints more 
generally and that AJG thinks its not fair it has to pay interest for that period  of time. But it is 
also true that if the documents AJG had issued Mr W had been clearer then thered have 
been no loss and no interest  to pay. It has also always been open to AJG to put the 
complaint right before now if it had so wished. Indeed it knew  in January 2016 that our 
adjudicator thought it had misled Mr W (albeit  that his view then was that no loss had been  
proved). And AJG has had the use of the money that Mr W overpaid for all of this time.  So it 
is right that it pays him the interest Ive awarded for the entire  period.
The wider  issues associated with this and other similar complaints meant it was only right 
that this service took the time necessary to ensure we were dealing  with complaints like this 
one fairly  and consistently. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Arthur  J. Gallagher  Insurance 
Brokers Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr W compensation equivalent  to the difference between  the premiums  he paid 
in 2012, 2013 and 2014 and the amount  he wouldve  paid if the annual premium  had 
been £1,100;
Add interest* at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date each 
premium was paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9347970