K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains about eight high-cost short-term credit instalment loans Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) provided  to him. He says Sunny irresponsibly lent 
him these  loans.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr F and Sunny had told us. And he thought  that 
Sunny hadnt  treated Mr F unfairly.  So he didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. Mr F disagreed  and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Fs complaint.  
Mr F was provided with high-interest loans,  intended  for short-term use. So Sunny needed to 
make sure that it didnt  provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is that Sunny 
needed to carry  out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending  was 
sustainable for Mr F before providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr F took out a first loan for £100  in November  2017. The loan was to be repaid over a 
period of around six months. Mr F then applied for a second loan of £150 in December 2017 
this was also due to be repaid in six months. Two further loans were also provided in 
January 2018.  And Mr F ended up repaying  all of these loans early. 
Sunny says it agreed to Mr Fs application  after hed provided details of his monthly  income 
and expenditure.  It says the information Mr F provided on his income  and expenditure 
showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing  to. And in 
these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr F and Sunny have said.  The first thing for me to say is 
that these loans were  Mr Fs first loans with Sunny. Mr F did take these loans concurrently. 
But I dont think that Mr Fs overall level of indebtedness for these loans was particularly 
high. The information provided does suggest that Mr F was asked to provide details of his 
income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount  of the monthly repayment, the 
Ref: DRN92941482questions Sunny asked Mr F and these were Mr Fs first loans, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the information Mr F was providing.
I accept that Mr Fs actual circumstances may not have  been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Sunny obtained. But Sunny could only 
make its decision based  on the information it had available  at the time. And, at this stage of 
the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate  checks wouldve extended into Sunny 
asking Mr F to evidence what he was declaring.   
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Sunny did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr F - it carried 
out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information  it mightve  been  provided 
with was inaccurate. 
Sunny reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and the overall  circumstances of Mr Fs loan history,  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Sunny to lend  especially as there wasnt  anything obvious,  in the 
information it had, to suggest Mr F wouldnt be able to sustainably repay loans 1 to 4.
Ive also considered the Mr Fs pattern of borrowing for loans 5 to 8. I accept that this in itself 
could suggest  that Mr F was provided with expensive credit for an extended period.  But 
these loans were for modest amounts. And as Mr F repaid these loans  early  he only 
indebted to Sunny for a total period of 15 days. So bearing this in mind, I dont think  that I 
can reasonably  say that these loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful  for Mr F.  
So overall I dont  think that Sunny treated Mr F unfairly or unreasonably when providing him 
with these loans.  As this is the case, Im not upholding  Mr Fs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Mr F. But I hope  hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least  feel his concerns have been  listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9294148