K820x#14complaint
Ms P says she was misled into changing her mortgage interest rate in 2017 by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc. She says she wouldnt have  taken out a new fixed  interest rate if shed 
been told she wouldnt be able to undertake a further advance to consolidate  her debts.
background and my findings
I issued my provisional decision in January 2021,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Ms Ps complaint. I invited both parties  to let me have  any further submissions before 
I reached a final decision. 
RBS accepted my findings, and Ms P didnt respond despite reminders of the deadline.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments afresh to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my opinion  hasnt  
changed. Ive reached the same findings  and for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before  26 March 2021.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94902382COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms P says she was misled into changing her mortgage interest rate in 2017 by The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc. She says she wouldnt have taken out a new fixed  interest rate if shed been told she 
wouldnt be able to undertake a further advance to consolidate her debts.
background
Ms P has set out her account of events in considerable detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed  her complaint in the way that I have. I wont mention every  contact between the 
parties nor will I go into the same level of detail, instead Ill concentrate  on what I view as the key 
events and contacts.
Ms P had a mortgage  with RBS and the rate was fixed until 30 September  2017.
In June 2017  Ms P started discussing her options with her premier  banking manager (who Ill refer to 
as LS). Those discussions were about a new interest rate for the mortgage and the fact Ms P wanted 
to consolidate her unsecured debt onto her mortgage.
On 11 July 2017  Ms P met with a branch mortgage  adviser (who Ill refer to as PP). He carried out 
some checks and calculations  and informed  Ms P that her further advance enquiry had failed 
affordability.
Ms P emailed PP and LS on 25 July 2017  saying 
Following on from our previous conversation, on your suggestion I have secured a personal  loan 
for £13,000, monthly repayment of £260,  which I can use to repay credit  cards overdraft. Can you 
let me know if that sorts out the affordability issue with my mortgage?
LS said this would be picked up with PP and asked if Ms P had received a competitive rate on the 
new loan. Ms P replied that it wasnt particularly  competitive, but she was viewing  it as a means  to an 
end to allow her to secure the additional financing on the mortgage.
LS offered to see if RBS could offer a better rate, and it was left that she would look into that. In the 
meantime PP asked Ms P to make a list of her credit commitments and the interest rate for each.
As PP had moved to a different branch, the next meeting was arranged with a replacement  branch  
mortgage adviser, who Ill call AD.
AD went through the figures with Ms P and the further advance still couldnt  proceed due to 
affordability. The RBS personal  loan unit also said it wasnt willing  to agree to another personal loan 
for Ms P due to the level of her indebtedness and history of refinancing.
On 15 August 2017 LS left a voicemail  for Ms P saying that AD had asked her to call to see if Ms P 
was free to meet him to look at switching  the mortgage to a new rate. On 1 September 2017 LS left 
another voicemail to say an appointment needed to be made to get Ms P back in to see AD to move 
things forward.
LS emailed Ms P on 5 September  saying  
Many  thanks  for speaking with me today  and I am sorry again that we cant assist at this time.
Here is the link which I discussed which will allow you to go ahead and select a new rate. The 
process is really  quick  and straightforward  without  the need for you to come into the Branch. If you 
Ref: DRN94902383have any problems selecting  the link or any questions, please  do not hesitate to call me and I will 
do my best to help.
Im sorry that I have not been able to accommodate you at this time but I really hope  that I can 
assist you in the future.
Ms P went online  and selected a new rate which  was fixed  until 30 November 2019.  The paperwork 
was emailed to her on 13 September 2017 and she esigned it the following day to accept the rate.
On 28 December  2017  Ms P emailed  LS saying
It has come  to me attention that my house is actually  worth more  than I had estimated when I 
went through my mortgage  renewal a few months ago, as there is a comparable property in the 
next street  of the same  size that sold for £560k  last summer.
I have been advised that it would be reasonable to place  a similar value on my own property, 
which means that at 90% LTV I could now borrow an additional £100k (clearing everything) and at 
85% an additional £75k  (leaving only £30k of 0% credit card debt). Note  Im ignoring  the overdraft  
as you have  previously stated it does not count  for mortgage purposes.
I ran it through an online RBS remortgage affordability check and it passed.
Can you please let me know what the options are? Im considering other options at the moment so 
if you could come  back to me asap Id be grateful.
LS left a voicemail for Ms P on 3 January 2018 to say shed picked up the email and would be 
delighted to look at the options and run through the figures again.
Ms P booked an appointment with an adviser  at the phone-based mortgage  centre.
In the pre-appointment check on 15 January  Ms P gave  the background  to what  had happened, 
saying
I tried to go through my private banking  manager  a couple of times. Id basically gone through 
the remortgage thing and just kept being told by the bank  that there was nothing  that could be 
done Ive been looking  at taking out a secured loan cos I needed to do something. So I went  
down the secured  loan route, which isnt really ideal as the interest rates are pretty high on those. 
But then I was only looking  at doing that for a couple of years, but as part of that process I realised 
the house  was actually worth quite a bit more  than I thought it was so that freed up a bit more   
so basically I just had a valuation done at £550,000 whereas I think  I was saying £525,000 when  I 
was going through the mortgage process. Went  back to my private  banking  manager  again  and 
she just kept saying that it didnt meet affordability but suggested that I would  be welcome to go 
through the mortgage centre. She was supposed  to text me the number but she didnt, so I just, 
because the secured loan has been approved so Ive got to take a decision  as to whether or not 
Im going ahead with that, so I just decided  I would knock my options off.
In that call the mortgage centre adviser  - who Ill refer to as LM - confirmed that the case passed the 
initial affordability checks as long as Ms Ps bonus could be taken  into account. The adviser said Ms P 
should get all the information  together about her debts and theyd run through  everything in the phone 
appointment the following day.
On 16 January the adviser started going through everything  with Ms P and she asked about  the 
various debts.  The following isnt an exact transcript as Ive not included any interjections  or repetition 
of words:
[Ms P answers LMs questions about one of her loans; such as the amount borrowed, the monthly  
payment, the redemption figure]
Ref: DRN94902384LM: And the interest rate?
Ms P:Its about 4% ish
LM: Do you know exactly  what it is at all?
Ms P:No, I dont sorry, its round about that region
LM: What we have  to do, I have to compare what  rates  youve got just now in case  something 
that we would offer would be higher  than that
Ms P:[unclear] I would say its 4.5% then exactly
LM: Is that on a document or anything that 4.5, or is that just a guess?
Ms P:What do you need  from me, because basically [unclear] what paperwork will you actually 
ask for?
LM: We dont ask for paperwork,  the reason  I need the exact rate the reason being, for 
example, if that interest  rate is 4% on your [unclear] the rate we can offer you for the 
additional borrowing potentially will be higher than that so its not something that I would 
look to recommend you took, I wouldnt  look for you to consolidate something for us to put 
you on a higher interest rate. So thats why I need to have the exact interest rate for each  
loan and credit card.
Ms P:Well in that case put down  its 4.5% exactly then
LM: Is that just a guess  though  or is that on a document  or anything  like that?
Ms P:But what does it matter? I know exactly  what  Im doing,  right ok, so basically if I answer a 
question or whatever and I give you a lower  interest rate then this whole thing falls apart,  
correct? 
LM: The thing is, youve  opted for advice  today  though, in order for me to give you advice I 
need the correct information to make sure that the advice Im giving you is suitable.
Ms P:So if you act on the information that Ive given  you and the information  that Im giving you 
is that the interest rate is 4.5%
LM: So if I was to ask you for evidence of that then it will say 4.5%?
Ms P:What does it matter? Youre  not going to ask me for evidence?
LM: It does matter though
Ms P:So basically theres no point in going any further with this if any of the interest rates so 
what youre  basically  saying is that if any of the interest rates  on any of these  loans or 
anything are better you cant lend me the money so the whole  thing is going to fall apart?
LM: Yes, thats correct
Ms P:In that case, yes Im sure I can find some evidence to say it would  be 4.5%
LM: Sorry,  I didnt catch that there?
Ms P:In that case yes I would find evidence or whatever, Im sure,  its not a guess its 4.5%.
Ref: DRN94902385LM: Right,  thats fine.
The call continued  with LM asking about other loans  Ms P had. The next one Ms P said she couldnt  
remember the interest rate but it was between 7 and 8%, she then confirmed  it was 7.6%.
After the details of the first three loans had been taken LM placed Ms P on hold. She then came back  
and said RBS couldnt proceed due to the amount  of times  Ms P had consolidated debts  previously. 
Unhappy with what had happened Ms P raised a complaint. RBS didnt uphold the complaint and so 
Ms P referred it to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, and as Ms P remained unhappy  with everything, the 
complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it in order  to reach the right outcome.  This service is impartial  between, and 
independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either 
party, and I dont act under  eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked  
at.
Ive listened to Ms Ps verbal submissions she recorded  and emailed  to our investigator.  There  are a 
couple of points  I feel I should pick out of that here before  I go any further.
The first is Ms Ps statement that under  a point of law I have  to ignore  certain  submissions from RBS 
(that is, the response  from the personal  loan unit in August 2017).   As Ive explained above, I dont act 
under either partys instructions and so I wont disregard evidence. In any event  the refusal to 
consider a further personal loan has no bearing on my decision, so that point is moot.
The second  point is Ms Ps statement mistakes were not made  by RBS, instead it was clear  it was 
wilful omissions in the submissions of information to yourself as an investigating  body in an attempt to 
directly mislead  the investigation amongst others along a similar  line. And her claim that the 
statements we received  from LS and PP were given  under  coercion, and they were instructed by RBS 
how to word their statements. 
These are serious  allegations that Ms P is making about  RBSs  conduct. As an impartial  third party  I 
dont agree with Ms Ps assessment of the situation  and Im satisfied that whilst  there has been some 
confusion and there have been some mistakes made these werent an attempt to directly  mislead the 
investigation. In any event we know the true situation, so again this point is moot  in terms of the 
decision Im reaching. If Ms P still believes  that RBS has acted in that way, then the place to report 
those concerns is to the regulator.
Ms P has said
I would also like to confirm with RBS what [AD] means by "to do with [PP]". It would seem that 
something strange  was going on within  the bank with regard  to that employee, he did appear to 
disappear very quickly.  It could explain some of the poor advice he gave and help confirm  that he 
gave it.
It seems Ms P has misconstrued the statement. Theres nothing sinister  in the phraseology  to do with 
[PP] as AD said it in the context of why he couldnt remember  Ms P; that is, PP hadnt worked at that 
Ref: DRN94902386branch for a few years so if PP had been involved then it had happened a few years ago hence he 
couldnt remember. Theres  also nothing strange  - in itself - about the fact PP moved  to another  
branch. Its not at all unusual within  retail  banks  for staff members to transfer  between branches to 
either fit the business need  or for their own personal reasons (such as the new branch is closer to 
home for them). It may have  happened quickly, or it may have been planned  for some time but PP felt 
no need to inform  a potential customer of his circumstances.  Either  way it has no impact on the 
outcome of this complaint.
There are also two statements Ms P made in her email submissions that need answering as it seems 
she misunderstood  the nature of the relationships  between her, RBS and the RBS mortgage advisers:
Forgive me, but I thought a mortgage advisor was working on my behalf,  is that not the case?
I was told by RBS mortgage advisors (who  I had thought were working  to advise  me, not make 
formal business  decisions by the bank).
The mortgage  advisers were employees  of RBS, so they were working for RBS not for Ms P. If Ms P 
wanted a mortgage adviser to work  on her behalf then she needed to instruct an independent 
financial adviser or mortgage broker to act in that capacity and pay whatever that third-partys  fees 
would be. RBSs mortgage advisers could  recommend a suitable  RBS mortgage to Ms P (if there was 
one) and they would put the application forward to the RBS underwriters if it passed  the initial  checks. 
It wasnt RBSs mortgage advisers job to act for Ms P nor to give her advice in any other matter.
For instance, the RBS mortgage adviser  could only give Ms P factual information about  what  the 
internal RBS index-linked valuation system said her property  was likely to be worth.  It wasnt his place  
to undertake research for Ms P as to whether  that figure was likely to be right,  that was up to Ms P to 
do if she felt the figure was wrong. I understand Ms P decided she didnt  want to risk having a 
valuation undertaken in July 2017 in case it came in lower and pushed her mortgage into a higher 
loan to value band for the upcoming rate switch. 
Ms Ps also said she didnt look to remortgage at that point for the same reason; she thought her 
property wouldnt be worth enough to allow  her to release  the funds  she wanted. That was her choice 
to make, and there  was nothing stopping her doing her own research into what  a likely  valuation 
figure would  be. I cant hold RBS liable for Ms P not doing so, or for the mortgage adviser passing  on 
the factual information about what the internal  index-linked  valuation  system showed  the likely 
valuation figure to be. Ms P was free to speak either to other  lenders directly, or to an independent 
adviser, to find out if she would be accepted for a mortgage elsewhere.  Whilst  Ms P now says she 
believes she would have been, thats not something I can consider as it simply  cant  be proven either 
way.
The calculations carried  out in July 2017 were based on the valuation figure Ms P put forward, in that 
she thought her property was worth £525,000. The calculations werent based on the lower 
index-linked figure that RBS had on its system. Despite  that the application was still classed as 
unaffordable as the equity Ms P had available wasnt enough to clear all her debts, and the debts  she 
would have had left would  have led to the further advance being deemed unaffordable.
Ms P has said that PP, AD and LS advised her to consolidate her credit card debts into personal 
loans to assist the affordability calculations.  Ive considered this point very carefully and whilst there is 
evidence that Ms P told PP and LS that shed  consolidated some credit card debt, theres  no evidence 
that RBS staff encouraged her to do so. Ms P wrote in her email to PP that shed done  it on his 
suggestion, but theres  nothing from PP agreeing that it was. I hope Ms P wont take this the wrong 
way as thats  not my intention  at all, but put simply  her saying it was so, doesnt make it so and 
theres simply no evidence to support her assertion.
Ms P has said the rate change  she undertook in September 2017 was on the advice of RBS, whereas  
RBS says it was a non-advised change.
Ref: DRN94902387The paperwork at the time clearly states it was a non-advised change  We are not recommending  a 
particular mortgage  for you. However, based on your answers to some questions, we are giving you 
information about this mortgage so that you can make your own choice.
There were  also some  risk warnings:
Self Service,  Loss  of Protection  Disclosure Document
Please read the important information below  about our Self Service option before proceeding:
If you have  chosen to use our Self Service option, you have had access to the same range  of 
products and the same  terms and conditions as are available using our Advice service. However, 
Self Service  means we have not given  you any advice nor have we assisted you in making your 
selection.
You should only proceed on a Self Service basis if you are confident that you have  been able to 
choose the right variation  to your mortgage for your circumstances and are happy to take 
responsibility for your decisions.
Unlike our Advice service, you have not benefited from the protection of us assessing the 
suitability of the variation  to your mortgage  for you and we are not responsible for your selection. 
Because of this we will not offer you compensation if your choice turns  out to be inappropriate.
And
Self Service means that you choose  the mortgage yourself, and we do not give you advice or 
assist you in making  your choice. You should only use our Self Service option if you are confident 
that you are able to choose the right mortgage for your circumstances and are happy to take 
responsibility for your decisions.
Unlike our Advice service, you will not benefit from the protection of us assessing  the suitability of 
your mortgage for you and therefore if your choice  turns out to be inappropriate we will not offer 
you compensation. You are responsible for whether  your selection is appropriate for your needs.
Ms P has said she was given advice but told it was easier to apply online,  and has pointed to various 
voicemails, text messages  and emails between her and LS to support that. She says these show LS 
was involved in the process throughout.
Ive listened carefully to all the voicemails  and read the emails and text messages. However, whilst  I 
agree with Ms P that these show LS was involved throughout, I dont agree  that these  show she was 
given advice about her new rate. As Ms Ps premier  banking manager, it was LSs role to support Ms 
P. So I would expect  her to have followed up with Ms P on the rate change  issue to ensure she didnt 
move onto the standard variable rate if she didnt want to. But that - in itself - doesnt constitute advice 
about the new rate. Equally LS encouraging Ms P to come into the branch to discuss a new rate with 
AD again doesnt show Ms P was given advice about what a suitable rate - if any - was for her.
What we do know for sure is that on 5 September LS sent Ms P a link to the part of RBSs website  
which would allow her to view the rates that were available and to select  one. And in that email LS 
apologised for RBS being  unable to assist  at that time,  so it seems Ms P was aware, at the time she 
selected the new rate, that the current  state of play was that RBS was unable to offer her a further 
advance.
At the time Ms P applied  for the new rate it seems  she hadnt  fallen foul of the rule that led to her 
January 2018 enquiry  failing; that is RBS doesnt recommend debt consolidation if the customer  has 
previously consolidated unsecured debt on three or more occasions in the last two years. At that time 
Ms P had consolidated  debt with RBS in May 2016  and with another lender in July 2017 (as 
Ref: DRN94902388referenced in Ms Ps email to PP). The further consolidation loan that caused the January  2018 
enquiry to fail wasnt taken  out until October or November 2017.
So irrespective of whether  the rate change in September 2017 was taken  on the advice of RBS or not 
- and as Ive explained above, Im not persuaded on balance that it was on the advice of RBS - then 
that advice wouldnt  have been wrong. Thats  because in September 2017  there was no reason  to 
believe a future further advance application wouldnt have been successful if there was sufficient  
equity to clear all Ms Ps debts. The failure  in January 2018 came about due to actions Ms P took 
after shed taken her new rate, and that was to take a further consolidation loan in October/November  
2017.
Ms P has said she knows  there was never  a guarantee that RBS would agree to a further advance. 
When Ms P took the new rate in September 2017, she did so on the understanding that RBS may or 
may not be able to grant her the further advance she wanted in the future.  At that time it was a no 
and there  was no guarantee that would change. If Ms P was unhappy with that then shed had those 
summer months to look elsewhere to see if a new lender  would be willing  to lend her the money, 
and/or obtain her own private valuation of her property. Instead Ms P chose to proceed with the new 
rate on the understanding there was an early repayment charge if she wanted to come out of the rate 
early, and that RBS may never agree to lend her the money she wanted.
If Ms P hadnt taken the further consolidation loan in October/November  2017 then it is possible a 
further advance application  may have  been  successful  in January 2018. However,  it is equally 
possible that it may have been turned down  for another reason. Just because  an enquiry passed the 
initial very broad-brush affordability check doesnt mean the underwriter  would  be happy with the 
affordability once all the paperwork and documentary evidence was submitted to them,  or that the 
RBS valuation would have come in as high as the valuation Ms P had received elsewhere.
It seems from the January 2018 calls that there may have been other reasons why the application  
would have failed. Ms P gave misleading  information  to the adviser about her interest rates  (giving 
rates that were higher than they truly were) and said she would move credit cards that were  on 0% 
interest rates  to interest bearing  ones if RBS refused to allow her to consolidate 0% credit  cards. 
Those actions  wouldnt  likely be viewed positively  by the underwriting team and may have led to any 
application being declined. 
Ms P also alluded to the fact she was aware there may be a problem with the interest rates  
so basically if I answer a question or whatever and I give you a lower  interest rate then this 
whole thing falls apart, correct
So basically theres no point in going any further with this if any of the interest rates so what 
youre basically saying is that if any of the interest rates on any of these  loans or anything  are 
better you cant lend me the money so the whole  thing  is going  to fall apart?
A list of Ms Ps debts was compiled in August 2017. Its not clear if that was by Ms P or an RBS staff 
member but Ive no reason  to doubt the information recorded on it as the information  is broadly 
supported elsewhere  in the complaint file. That indicates  Ms P had a personal loan of around £12,000  
on a 3.1%  interest  rate (which is the one Ms P told LM in January 2018 that she could prove  was on a 
4.5% interest rate).  It also shows Ms P had around £16,700 in credit cards on 0% interest rates that 
had more  than six months to run (whereas  Ms P told LM in January  2018 that all the 0% interest rates 
would expire within six months).
Ive considered this case very carefully, and I can see how much it means to Ms P. Im sorry to 
disappoint her afresh but having weighed  up all the information thats been provided  by both sides,  
and having listened to Ms Ps recent verbal  submissions,  I simply  cant uphold this complaint, 
however much Ms P may want  me to.
Ref: DRN94902389I understand Ms P has concerns about  how RBS dealt with her complaint including, but not limited to 
the information it provided  to this service and the statements  from LS and PP. But as I explained in a 
previous letter to Ms P, the handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that 
the regulator requires  financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation from which 
we derive our powers. Were able to consider  concerns about complaint handling  in some limited 
circumstances, but there is another thing that we need  to consider and that is that we can only make  
an award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint  if were upholding the underlying 
issue being complained about and it is intrinsically linked.
As Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint, then it follows  I cant uphold  any complaint and award any 
compensation for how her complaint was handled.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint.  
Ill finalise my decision  after 22 February 2021,  or sooner  than that if both parties  confirm theyve said 
and provided all they wish to that is materially new. Theres no need for either party to repeat anything  
theyve already said.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9490238