K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision to decline his claim.
background
Mr S has medical insurance  with AXA. Hed used his insurance policy to cover a previous 
treatment on his spine  back in 2014. Following  this, AXA placed an exclusion on his policy 
for future lumbar spine  conditions. 
In July 2017 Mr S submitted a claim for the cost of two consultations and a Magnetic 
Resonance Image scan. He said AXA reimbursed him for one of the consultations but 
nothing further.  Mr S would like AXA to cover  the remaining costs and cover  the cost of his 
potential treatment.
AXA declined Mr S claim and said it accidently  paid for one of the consultations. It said it did 
not want this money back from Mr S, but it would not look to cover the other associated 
costs. AXA also said Mr S had submitted little evidence to explain what treatment he needed 
and so it was unable to approve  his claim. It relied on the policy exclusion mentioned  above  
to do this. 
Our investigator thought AXA had declined his claim  fairly. She said she could not challenge 
the terms of the policy and that the new problem Mr S experienced was brought about by the 
same cause in 2014. 
Mr S did not accept this. In summary he said;
He feels that the lack of medical evidence  has been held against him and that in 
order to satisfy AXA hell need  to see another specialist, whichll  be at a significant 
cost to him and;
He does not accept that our investigator could not challenge the term AXA has relied 
upon to decline  his claim.
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
AXA has an obligation under the insurance  code of business sourcebook. This means  it 
cannot unreasonably reject  a claim.  Having  carefully considered AXAs position here, I dont 
think it has. 
Mr S had a previous  condition related to his L4 vertebrae which he sought treatment for 
under his policy in 2014. This is what prompted  AXA to then add an exclusion to his policy.  
To be clear, the exclusion says;
we will be unable to pay for physiotherapy for lumber spine condition, spondylolisthesis and 
related symptoms after September 2015
Ref: DRN97406162The recent problem  Mr S experienced was still related  to his spine, but this time it was the 
lower disc, L5/S1. Mr S explained  the reason he believed AXA should cover the costs 
associated with treatment  for the L5/S1 because it relates to a different  of his spine. 
Whereas AXA said it considered the spine as a whole,  rather  than dividing it into sections  
which should be considered separately. 
I understand the arguments both parties  are making  here, but for the purposes of my final 
decision, I consider  AXAs  position to most persuasive. I say that because the exclusion it 
added to the policy is clear enough that it wanted to preclude related spinal problems. 
Although I do not accept  its argument that it considers the spine   indicating it does consider 
different areas of the spine.  In any event, its gone to the trouble of distinguishing the lumber 
region of the spine as an exclusion and Mr S latest  problem is located  closely to the original 
problem and in the lumber area. I therefore  find AXAs  reliance on this term reasonable. 
I also note AXA explained it would consider any further medical evidence Mr S had to 
challenge its decision. I thought this was particularly helpful and what  Id expect it to do 
considering the policy  also says it will consider cover for a definitive surgery only.  AXA has 
defined this as we mean a procedure that is intended to resolve  the issue. 
The treatment Mr S claimed for was pain relief  injections. AXA has said it does  not consider 
the injections a definitive treatment as they are likely  to be only temporary and further 
treatment would likely be needed later on. I think its position here is reasonable.   
AXA asked Mr S for an up to date medical  report, presumably so it could  better understand 
the surgical options available to Mr S and whether  these qualify as definitive  surgery.  But 
Ive not seen that this has happened. I know Mr S has made arguments about the potential 
costs involved with obtaining this information from a specialist, but I should say its for Mr S 
to prove  he has a valid claim. And so providing  more evidence to AXA about the potential  for 
surgical treatment would potentially be to his benefit.  As things  currently stand, I do not think 
AXA has made an error here. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr S complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9740616