K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) are not allowing 
him to cancel an agreement he has with them despite, a vehicle it finances, having been  
misrepresented to him. He also says the vehicle has been faulty since it was supplied.
background 
In June 2017 Mr E took receipt of a new car. He financed the arrangement  through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. But in April 2018  Mr E returned his car to the dealership as 
he complained:
the boot lid would not fully open
the windows  werent  opening and closing properly
the CarPlay system wouldnt work with his phone
The dealership made some adjustments to the window  set up but couldnt  replicate the 
problem with the boot not opening properly. They explained at the time that there  was:
no current  update for (phone version  7) yet and (phone version 8 not compatible with 
system
But Mr E later wrote to VWFS.  He said that none  of the faults had been repaired and he 
should now be allowed  to reject his car and have the finance agreement  terminated.
VWFS said they had not been able to replicate  any of the issues but they later explained that 
the issue with CarPlay was because the phone company had updated their software since 
Mr E took receipt of the vehicle and this software wasnt  yet supported by the manufacturer.  
They said the system worked  fine with the version of the software Mr E had when  he took 
receipt of the car so they didnt accept there was anything wrong at the point of supply and 
they therefore didnt think they needed to allow Mr E to reject the vehicle.
Our investigator also looked at the evidence.  He noted that Mr E hadnt complained about 
any problems until hed had the car for ten months. So he thought it reasonable to suggest  
CarPlay was working when Mr E took receipt of the car. He therefore  couldnt say the car 
wasnt of an acceptable  standard  at the point of supply. He thought the issue  had occurred 
subsequently and was due to a software  upgrade.  He noted that the small print, of VWFSs 
brochure explaining the use of CarPlay, had said permanent availability could not be 
guaranteed as it was dependant on the approval of the phone  company. So he didnt think 
theyd promised something they couldnt deliver but he did think the problem had limited 
Mr Es enjoyment of the car and he thought  a payment of £900 would be reasonable 
compensation for this loss of enjoyment.
But Mr E disagreed. He didnt accept the £900 settlement that had been suggested. He said 
the goods were  not as described and that as VWFS had failed to repair the fault with the 
vehicle legislation  would suggest he should  be allowed to reject  the car. He therefore asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN99119412Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The law allows  us to look at this 
complaint against  the finance  provider, VWFS,  even  though some actions may have been 
completed by their agents, the dealership. The relevant law says that the car should  have  
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied and that information provided  about the car should 
not be misleading. As I take account  of relevant law when deciding  what  is fair and reasonable 
if on this basis I thought the car was faulty when supplied or it was misrepresented,  Id think  it 
fair and reasonable to ask VWFS  to put this right. 
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
I dont think it was. Mr E appears to have driven  the car without issue until April 2018 when, 
during a planned check, he referred VWFS to the problems with the CarPlay  system; the 
windows and the boot.
I see that Mr E still considers the boot and window issues to be unresolved. I dont  think it 
would be fair to suggest that these were  problems that were present at the point of supply.  It 
was ten months  before  they were referred  to VWFS and I think  it was more likely that the 
faults had therefore developed at some  point after the vehicle was supplied.  I understand 
that the problems are intermittent and difficult to record but Ive not been provided with any 
further evidence  that these faults  still exist and my investigation is therefore  limited. So I 
dont think VWFS need to take any further action  with regard to the boot or window issues.
Mr E first complained of issues with the CarPlay system in April 2017.  I think  its likely this 
issue developed  at some  point after the point of sale.  I say that because:
Mr E didnt  complain about the problem initially and I think  its likely  he would have 
done if there was an issue when he collected the car
the software version has changed  and it appears  to be this new version of the 
software that isnt currently  compatible  
So I dont  think theres evidence to suggest  the car was faulty at the point of supply. 
was information  provided about the car misleading?
Ref: DRN99119413If Mr E was told something that was incorrect, and if it induced  him to enter into the 
agreement with VWFS, then the relevant legislation would suggest it was fair and 
reasonable to ask VWFS to put things right.
Mr E has explained that when he took out the deal it was suggested that CarPlay would work 
with phones of version  5 and above.  But VWFS  have  referred  us to small print, in the 
documentation available to Mr E, which explained  permanent availability could not be 
guaranteed as it was dependant on the approval of the phone  company.
At the point of sale I think it was likely the system was compatible with versions  of the phone  
above version 5. VWFSs  explanation about  future  availability wasnt obvious, it was hidden  
in the small print and its conceivable Mr E wouldnt have read it. But I do think its 
reasonable to suggest consumers would understand compatibility with another companys 
product could not be guaranteed as its clear the car manufacturer  has no control  over the 
actions of the phone company. They could have discontinued the software  for instance.
So I dont  think theres evidence the deal was misrepresented to Mr E and even if I did I 
would have had to go on to consider if Mr E wouldnt have proceeded with the agreement  
had he been told that there may be future compatibility issues. 
I dont think this was the case. Whilst Mr E has explained that CarPlay  was important to him 
it was a small part of the cars overall  offering and if he went  elsewhere there would be a 
similar risk with any manufacturers  car that CarPlay would not be supported in the future.
so does Mr E have a claim?
The relevant  legislation  also directs me to consider whether the car has been suitably 
durable. 
A reasonable person  wouldnt  expect  a car and every component to last forever. But there  is 
a reasonable expectation  that the components of a car function without any significant issue 
or problem  for a reasonable  period of time. And I think thats  not been the case here.
I think a reasonable  person would expect  a phone interface to function for longer than ten 
months but I dont think it would be proportionate  to allow Mr E to reject  his car on this basis  
alone. I say that because:
CarPlay represents a reasonably small  proportion of the cars overall functionality
I believe the issues with CarPlay can be overcome by using an alternative phone  
which I believe VWFS are prepared to provide
the issues with compatibility may still be resolved within the lifetime of the agreement
I think its likely the compatibility issues will be resolved within the life of the 
agreement as it is in the manufacturers interest to do so
Instead, I agree with the investigator, that Mr E should be compensated for his lack of 
enjoyment of the car as a whole. And having considered that compensation, I think  £900 is 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN99119414my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr E £900 to compensate him for the lack of enjoyment hes 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9911941