K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  about the suitability of the advice he received from Punter Southall 
Financial Management  Limited (PSFM). The advice was to transfer his Defined  Benefit 
(DB) pension plan to a Self- Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) and then subsequently 
invest in funds that he believes were above  his attitude to risk.
background
Mr W met with PSFM on 21 November  2017 to discuss his pension  arrangements. At the 
time he had a Defined Benefit (DB)  pension plan with a Cash  Equivalent  Transfer Value 
(CETV) of £170,066.99. The CETV  was guaranteed  for three  months. 
There were two elements  to Mr Ws DB plan, one was the funded element, and the other 
element was an unfunded  public service part to the plan. As this was unfunded, he was 
unable to transfer this out of the scheme.  He also held a Stakeholder  Pension  Plan valued  at 
£3,867.95 and a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) with a value  of around £60,000.
PSFM completed a fact find on 21 November 2017.  It confirmed his circumstances at the 
time were:
He was 59 years old.
He was married with no dependants; his partner was 52 years old.
He was employed as a planning  engineer earning around  £41,500  per annum.
Both Mr W and his partner earned  £28,100 per annum  in income from property.
Mr W and his partner had around  £79,000  in bank  accounts and around £100,000 in 
ISAs and investments  in stocks  and shares.
He was looking to retire at age 65.
The fact find confirmed most of Mr Ws savings and investments were earmarked for the 
renovation work planned on the holiday homes.
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed  on the same day. It confirmed Mr W was a 
medium risk investor.
Following the initial  information gathering process,  PSFM  emailed Mr W. The email  said:
Just a quick  update.  I had a response from our compliance department  last night and they 
have raised a query with me in that they have concerns that I have specifically advised you 
to opt out of your DB scheme which clearly I havent.
I know we discussed  this during our meeting in that I cannot advise whether you opt or not 
as this has to be 100%  your decision.
Just to reiterate, PSFM cannot give advice to a client  if they should  or shouldnt opt of an 
active DB scheme.
Ref: DRN96158722Following this email Mr W responded confirming  it was his intention  to opt out of the final 
salary scheme. And on 31 December  2017 he opted  out.
A suitability  report was issued to Mr W on 26 February 2018. It recommended  Mr W transfer 
both his DB plan and his stakeholder pension plan into a SIPP and then take his tax free 
cash entitlement to meet  his main objective of funding  renovations  of his holidays lets. It 
confirmed he required around  £40,000  to complete the renovations.  
Following the advice provided  to Mr W, £3,963.74 was transferred into his SIPP  on 21 March  
2018. From  this amount £990.94  was paid to him as tax free cash.
£170,066.99 was then transferred into his SIPP from his DB plan on 23 April 2018. From this 
amount £42,517.04 was paid to him as tax free cash.
Mr W complained  to PSFM about  its advice. However his complaint  was not upheld. As a 
result he referred his complaint to this service. 
The case  was assigned  to an adjudicator  who believed the complaint should be upheld 
against PSFM. He advised:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) states: -
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt out 
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
As a result he believed  it was the responsibility of PSFM  to clearly demonstrate it was in Mr 
Ws best interests to transfer his final salary pension scheme to a new SIPP.  He did not 
believe PSFM had done so.
He said that at the time the initial meeting  took place Mr W was an active member of the DB 
scheme and still working with the company. He would have been accruing benefits within the 
scheme. He was 59 years old and was looking to retire at age 65. This meant he may have 
had the possibility of adding a further  six years service to his pension plan.
He considered the emails between PSFM and Mr W. He noted PSFM told Mr W that it could 
not advise him on whether or not he should transfer his benefits while he was an active  
member of the DB scheme.  However, he believed that PSFM should have made him aware  
of the benefits  of remaining within the scheme,  which it did not do.
The adjudicator believed that Mr W did not need to give up the valuable  guarantees attached  
to his DB plan to meet his objective  of raising  around £40,000  to complete the renovations  
on his holiday lets. The reason for this was Mr W and his partner were  both still working full 
time and at the time there was a large  surplus in their monthly income  which could have 
been used towards  the cost of the renovations.
In addition to this both Mr W and his partner held around £179,000 in savings. The 
adjudicators view was in the first instance  the funds within  the savings account could have 
been considered as a way to fund the renovations.
Ref: DRN96158723Further to this, the adjudicator believed Mr Ws Personal Pension Plan (PPP)  with another
provider may have generated around £15,000 based on its value quoted  in the fact find.
Together with the quoted tax free cash available of £24,320 from the DB scheme this would 
have provided  Mr W with an amount  of £39,320.  By adding the tax free cash from the PPP if 
needed, this would have met his requirement  for the £40,000  he required.
This option would  have  allowed for Mr W to retain  the benefits attached  to his DB pension  
plan, and would have meant  he would  benefit from a guaranteed  income  in his retirement, 
which in turn would  have  escalated yearly in line with the Retail Price Index. 
He noted the retirement document said PSFM believed it was unlikely Mr W would need to 
use the funds  in his pension after he transferred them into the SIPP and later retired. The 
adjudicator believed PSFM made this assumption  based on Mr Ws partner having  a DB 
pension plan which together  with holiday let income could fund Mr Ws retirement. 
However our adjudicator  said there  is no guarantee that rental income will be received for 
the holiday lets. Furthermore the adjudicator did not believe Mr W should be reliant  on his 
partners income in retirement.  Taking  these factors into consideration, the adjudicator 
believed the retirement  strategy advised by PSFM was high risk.
The adjudicator reviewed the attitude to risk questionnaire. The questionnaire provided a 
summary of each risk level along with potential losses and gains. He believed a more  in 
depth conversation  should have been  held with Mr W to ensure he fully understood the risks 
involved with his retirement funds. 
Because of this he did not believe PSFM had obtained a full understanding  of what  level of 
risk Mr W was willing to take. This was not consistent with its regulatory obligation to 
consider the suitability or otherwise of the transfer and its associated risks.
The adjudicator stated that the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
requires that when considering a transfer  from a DB scheme,  a calculation must be carried 
out to establish the investment performance  which would be required by the new pension in 
order to match the benefits available from the transferring scheme.  This is called  the critical 
yield. As PSFM had noted in the suitability report,  Mr W was within one year to normal  
scheme retirement age, they were unable to provide a critical yield.
However, it did provide  annuity quotations  to replicate the DB scheme  as close as possible 
to show the difference in the income available to Mr W. It was evident  the income Mr W 
could receive, was around £700  per annum less than he would have  had he remained within  
the DB scheme. This shortfall would also increase year on year based on the increases 
attached to the DB scheme.
The adjudicator concluded the complaint  should be upheld. The transfer  was unsuitable  
because the risks of transferring had not been  explored or explained to Mr W.
PSFM disagreed. It reiterated it was not within its remit  to advise Mr W about the suitability 
of transferring from his DB scheme.  That decision  had already been  made  by Mr W and so 
its advice was limited to what he should  do, after transferring, to meet his objectives. 
Ref: DRN96158724It added that it initially  gave Mr W a document setting out generic information  about 
transferring from DB schemes and so Mr W was aware of the risks of transferring. Finally, it 
set out its reasoning that having  transferred,  it gave  Mr W appropriate advice in meeting his 
objectives. 
As agreement was not reached, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by our adjudicator that this complaint should be upheld. 
The crux of PSFMs rejection of Mr Ws complaint is that it did not advise him on the merits 
or otherwise of transferring  from his DB scheme. It says its advice was properly  limited  to 
actions Mr W should take after transferring.
But I do not agree.
In my view, the advice  should have started with a consideration of the suitability or otherwise 
of the transfer.  
As the adjudicator explained,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has made clear that 
the starting point for advising on DB transfers is that in the great majority of cases, such  
transfers will be unsuitable. This was clearly  set out in its consultation paper of June 2017  
and whose recommendations were  subsequently  incorporated into the Conduct  of Business 
rules. 
The FCA has also made clear that irrespective of the use to which transferred funds are to 
be put, the starting point for advice must  be the suitability or otherwise of the transfer itself. 
In other  words, PSFMs argument  that it only advised on post transfer matters  does not 
absolve it of responsibility to have considered the transfer. It should have followed the 
required process to establish  its suitability or otherwise and set out its conclusions and 
reasoning to Mr W.
In response to our adjudicator, PSFM says it was not within its remit to advise on the 
transfer. But I have  noted it said Mr W was informed about  the risks of transferring because 
it gave Mr W a third party  document which gave:
5 good reasons for transferring and 5 good  reasons to stay. PSFM says of this that This 
would go some way to ensure the client understood the generic advantages and 
disadvantages of staying in the scheme  before taking action. 
I have noted PSFM says in respect  of comparing various options available  to Mr W, that:
The annuity  figures  provided on the open market compare less favourably to the retirement 
benefits provided by the (DB) scheme.
But PSFM cannot have  it both ways. It cannot say on the one hand it did not give advice on 
the transfer but on the other hand,  say it made Mr W aware   in other words, arguably 
advised him - of the advantages and disadvantages  of transferring.
Ref: DRN96158725I do not doubt it gave Mr W the document and information referred to but that falls very 
substantially short of its regulatory obligation  to Mr W.
I also note that PSFM says its formal relationship with Mr W only started  once an irrevocable 
decision to transfer  had been  made. I do not agree.  In responding to our adjudicator, PSFM 
said:
The email  below clarifies that no advice was given to opt out of the pension  scheme  and the 
dates confirm these  discussions occurred at a point  the client  was still an active member.
In other  words, irrespective of when a formal client agreement was signed, PSFM 
acknowledges that it was in discussion with Mr W before any irrevocable decisions had been 
made. It therefore then had the opportunity to advise Mr W in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations. These did not start with a formal client agreement. 
But if irrevocable  decisions had been made by Mr W, either at the initial  discussion stage or 
when it came to formalising a client relationship, PSFM, in my view,  ought then to have 
declined to act for Mr W (other than possibly on an insistent client  basis)  as it did not know  if 
the transfer was suitable. The actions it recommended may have met Mr Ws objectives in 
transferring but that isnt the point. 
The point is that PSFM before  advising  on the transferred funds  ought  to have first 
considered the suitability  of the transfer. It has acknowledged it did not do this, although as I 
have explained,  I think it arguable that some limited  advice was given. But either way, PSFM 
did not follow FCA guidance in respect  of transfers  from DB schemes.
I also note that in an email to Mr W, following an initial meeting with him, PSFM said:
.report on our findin gs and to make a suitable recomm enda tion to have the transfer
value paid into a pension in your own name.  I will be recom mendi ng a suitable pens ion 
wrapper in which the funds can be held, along with recommen ding an approp riate 
invest ment strategy in line with your attitude towards investm ent risk.
I think a reasonable  inference from this is that PSFM had already concluded that the transfer 
should proceed, notwithstanding that earlier in the same email, it said it would  carry out an 
analysis of the DB scheme.
I appreciate Mr W told PSFM  in an email of 8 December 2017 that he would transfer  away 
from the DB scheme irrespective of our recent  discussions. PSFM further argues that this 
justifies its advice only encompassing the use to which the transferred funds would be put 
rather than the transfers suitability. 
But given no detailed analysis  of the benefits  Mr W would forego by transferring was 
undertaken, I cannot fairly or reasonably conclude that Mr Ws insistence on transferring 
stemmed from an informed position. He was not a pension expert.
In summary,  I have concluded that PSFM ought to have started its advice with a proper 
consideration of the suitability or otherwise  of the transfer. It did not do this and so the 
suitability of the transfer has not been  established. It follows  that PSFMs subsequent advice, 
after the transfer, cannot fairly or reasonably  to be said to have been suitable.
Ref: DRN96158726I do not therefore propose commenting on Mr Ws objectives following the transfer or 
PSFMs advice in relation  to those objectives as they come after the point  at which  I have 
concluded PSFM acted  not in accordance with its regulatory obligations.
What must Punter Southall Financial Management Limited do?
The redress  I have  set out below is aimed  at putting  Mr W back into the position he would 
have been in but for the unsuitable advice.
PSFM must  undertake  a redress calculation in line with the pension  review methodology, as 
amended by the Financial Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out using the most  recent financial assumptions, 
published by the FCA, at the date of the actual calculation.
PSFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into a 
suitable pension  plan within the UK. The payment  should  allow  for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief.  The compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment into the pension is not possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W in a lump sum after making a deduction to reflect  the rate of 
income tax Mr W is likely to pay in retirement.
This is because the payment would otherwise have been used  to provide pension benefits, 
which would have been taxed according  to his likely  tax paying status in retirement.  My 
understanding is that the rate applicable to Mr W would be 20%.
If redress is not paid within  28 days of the date of my decision, simple interest at an annual 
rate of 8% will then begin to accrue  on any outstanding  balance.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Punter Southall Financial Management Limited  must redress  Mr W as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before  3 May 2020.                               .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9615872