K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants to reject the vehicle  and end the agreement.
background
Mr G tells us he acquired the vehicle  through a dealer Ill call C in early 2018. He says 
there were problems almost straightaway  in relation to high revving upon starting and issues  
with a USB port. He says the vehicle was returned  to C for repairs  to be completed.  But he 
says not all the repairs have been  successful. Hes still got problems with starting  the 
vehicle. Mr G has also told us more recently  that theres been a problem  with the battery  
which needs replacing. He wants to reject  the vehicle. 
MotoNovo told us repairs had been  carried out by the dealer. And when Mr G had 
complained that the revving issue was still present  it had arranged for an independent  
inspection by D. And Ds report had not identified any issue  with the revving when  starting 
the vehicle. But it had identified a fault with the USB. MotoNovo said it didnt consider the 
fault with the USB meant the vehicle could be rejected as it didnt inhibit use of the vehicle.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He issued  his first view 
and noted that a report by D had concluded the driving repairs had been completed.  And 
that the dealership and MotoNovo had offered to repair the identified problem with the USB. 
In response to additional evidence sent by Mr G he issued two further  views  but still 
recommended the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree and as its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman  has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G has had some issues with the vehicle  and hasnt  had the degree of 
satisfaction he obviously expected when he acquired it. 
As the vehicle was acquired through a hire purchase agreement,  under  present legislation  
MotoNovo, as the supplier of both the vehicle and finance, is responsible for the vehicle 
being of satisfactory  quality when supplied. And whilst I dont apply the law directly I do take 
it into account. And if I thought there  was something  wrong with the vehicle at the time of 
supply so as to make it not of satisfactory quality, Id expect MotoNovo to do something 
about it.
Where a vehicle is said to have faults present or developing  at the time of supply I look to 
any independent evidence in addition to what the parties have told me. And in this case  Ive 
seen a number  of reports and statements about the condition of the vehicle at various  times.  
Ref: DRN97836562Although not an independent report I can see C repaired the vehicle in April 2018  and 
identified that a breather pipe had become loose. It said this had been  refitted  and the 
vehicle had undergone a road test. The report stated:
VEHICLE BACK FROM  ROAD TEST ALL OK NO FAULT CODES
FOUND AFTER  ROADTEST.
It said Mr G hadnt mentioned the USB but it said it had subsequently referred him to the 
owners handbook.
When Mr G said there  were still problems, MotoNovo arranged for the vehicle to be 
examined by D. This report  didnt  identify any issue with the revving upon start. But it did 
report the USB fault. 
And later Mr G has provided evidence from M, a company who also examined the vehicle 
on different occasions.  On the first occasion in early  November  2018, Ms invoice reads:
"CHECKED ECO STOP/START BATTERY
OK, SUGGEST CUSTOMER TAKE ON MOTORWAY
And it reported the USB issue was not a charging  fault. When the investigator spoke to a 
staff member at M he was told the USB plug was working and that Mr G was using the 
wrong lead. Later that month M again inspected  the vehicle and reported the starter battery 
was low and required replacing.
Looking back at the history since Mr G acquired  it, the vehicle has been examined on 
several occasions. The original faults with various mechanical issues  were repaired with a 
breather pipe being refitted. The USB fault which Mr G also reported seems to have been  
down to the wrong lead being used. The report by D did not identify any issue with high 
revving upon start -up. And the notes from the inspections carried  out by M did not at first 
identify a battery fault - although  later it recommended the battery would need replacing.
When Mr G acquired  the vehicle the mileage recorded was 20,776. On Ms latest invoice the 
mileage is recorded  as 32,847. So the vehicle covered  around  12,000  miles in about nine 
months - which is above average. Im aware  Mr G in his latest  response  to the investigator 
still feels the car is faulty - describing it as sluggish and jittery.
But were  an evidence  based service. And apart  from the battery  requiring replacing  Ive 
seen no independent evidence of there being anything currently wrong  with the vehicle.  And 
thats included  information from inspections arranged by Mr G. A battery is a wear  and tear 
item and its only in November 2018 that any fault with it has been identified.  So I cant  say it 
was faulty at the time of supply.
In summary,  Ive seen  nothing that would lead me to think  the vehicle  was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  And so it would  not be fair and reasonable to require MotoNovo to 
accept the vehicle being rejected and the agreement ended.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr G Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN97836563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9783656