K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) wont refund several transactions made on 
his credit card, which he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr Gs complaint involves a complicated background with several  business  and professional 
relationships relevant  to whats happened. For ease of understanding  the following table 
summarises whos who:
Mr G The complainant and holder of the BoS personal credit  card used to make 
the disputed transactions
Company I An electrical engineering business  for which Mr G was a Director
Company F Mr Gs financial  brokerage business
Mr R Mr Gs employee   he worked for Company F
Company M A building  development firm for which Company F brokered a loan with 
Company A
Company A A financial intermediary/commercial  money  lender that lent to Company M
Mr J A Director  of Company  M and Company I
On 6 December  2017 someone using Mr Gs Company F email address sent an email  to 
Company A, which read:
[Company  M are having problems, I] contact you to see if you would be kind enough 
to leave the payment due today for payment late Monday afternoon  as the problems 
should be sorted by then.  If you are not happy  with this, do let me know  and I will 
make payment to you personally on my credit  card 
On 11 December 2017 someone  using  Mr Gs Company F email address emailed Company 
A with his BoS credit card details.  The email  read:  as promised please find my credit  card 
details so payment  can be taken  for the amount agreed  please  call me for security  
number. A transaction  for £3,000 debited Mr Gs account later that day in favour of 
Company A.
Company A sent an email  to Mr R a week later,  on 18 December 2017, which said:
 I hope  youre well and have passed on your requests for your credit  card details 
not to be used in respect to payment on behalf of [Company M].
A month later a transaction for £2,200  was made  to a software  publishing company using 
Mr Gs BoS credit card. And another £3,000 debited the account to Company A. These 
transactions appeared on the statement dated 19 January 2018.
On 1 March 2018 another transaction, this time for £4,400, was made to Company A.
Later in March 2018 Mr G changed the name on his business bank account (not held with 
BoS) from Mr G to Company F/Company M.
Someone on behalf of Company M wrote to Company A in March 2018 stating that Mr Gs 
card had been used in error , and that the amount of £4,550 was now subject to a 
chargeback. They offered  £27,500 to clear  the loan and said no chargeback requests would 
Ref: DRN95813952be made in respect  to other card payments  made  on the company credit card of [Company 
M]. The amount of £4,550 related  to a payment made on another of Mr Gs personal credit 
cards (that transaction,  along with others,  is the subject of a separate  complaint  that Ill 
address in a separate  decision).
According to the Companies House register Company M went  into administration  in early 
April 2018 (Mr G says this didnt happen  until later, on 19 April).
On 9 April 2018  Company  A emailed Mr Gs employee, Mr R. They  said that theyd  accept 
£27,500 in full and final settlement of Company Ms outstanding  loan. The offer was subject 
to no further chargebacks on credit card payments previously made. Mr G, on behalf of 
Company M, then paid Company A the final settlement amount from his business bank 
account.
On 19 April 2018 Mr G contacted BoS to dispute the payment to the software  publishing 
company, and in July 2018 Mr G disputed the second and third payment to Company A (he 
didnt include the first transaction for £3,000). In his letter dated 9 July 2018 he said, I have 
sent a number of notices  to you on these matters and can only assume they have either 
been ignored or not received but find the later unlikely as notice was attached to payment.
BoS advised Mr G that he was out of time to raise  chargeback disputes for these payments 
under the card scheme  rules.
Mr G complained saying  that hed written to BoS after seeing his January 2018  statement 
asking them to cancel  the card because  he didnt recognise the transactions  and didnt have 
time to telephone.  He also explained  that Company Is Secretary had been helping him 
manage his finances.
BoS didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint as they found no evidence hed raised his disputes in 
time. They said if hed had concerns about  fraud he should have taken steps  to cancel the 
card. Although they couldnt find a recording of the relevant call, they apologised for any 
suggestion made by staff that hed receive  a refund of these transactions.
What Mr G told us
Mr G explained that his business, Company F, brokered a loan for a building firm, Company 
M. The loan came from Company A. He said that when Company M fell into financial 
difficulty, Company  F were approached by Company A to help secure re-payment. He said 
he had no agreement with, or re-payment obligations to, Company A.
He also said the following:
At the end of 2017, beginning of 2018, his account was being facilitated by staff 
working for Company M and Company  I.
A copy of his BoS credit card was kept in an office cabinet in case it was ever 
needed in his absence.
Mr R, a colleague, was being  bombarded with requests for payment  by Company A 
so Mr G told Mr R to provide my card details as security.
My personal  card should not have been  provided, but the business card.
Mr R did not have permission to give my card details to anyone.
My card was given  without my knowledge  or consent as security to the merchant.
Ref: DRN95813953Company F paid the balance of Company Ms loan on the strict understanding that 
the card payments were refunded  the settlement paid was on the basis that all any 
[sic] transactions on my card were refunded.
I gave my card to one merchant as security, this did not authorise or sanction a 
payment to be taken  and does  not excuse  the further payments which  BoS should 
have prevented.
Mr R was dismissed as a result  of his actions .
BoS allowed  further transactions to Company A after hed reported his dispute  he 
explained he contacted BoS on becoming  aware of the first transaction as he didnt 
recognise the name Company A came up as on his credit card statement.
He was told by BoS around 2 August 2018  that hed receive a full refund of the 
disputed transactions.
As neither Company  A nor the software  publishing company dealt with him directly or 
provided him with any goods or services  he should be refunded.
Mr G also provided  us with a letter from Company A to Mr Gs legal adviser which  said the 
transactions on his BoS credit card had been initiated on the understanding that the 
payments were being made by Company M. In that letter, Company A confirmed  Mr G had 
never been indebted to them.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint. She thought it more likely than not Mr G had 
authorised the disputed  payments or permitted his colleague/s to do so on his behalf. She 
said it was likely Mr G knew about  the transactions and was happy with them  at the time 
because he waited such a long time before disputing them. She didnt  find any evidence  that 
BoS had continued to allow payments to Company  A after Mr G raised his dispute.
Mr G didnt accept this. He said he didnt give consent or have knowledge of someone else 
using his credit card.  He explained  that in the absence  of the company credit card hed said 
his personal credit card could be used so long as on each occasion his permission was 
asked first. He said at no time did he give authority  for any staff to get the copy  of his card 
from the cabinet where it was kept, without  his knowledge.
He added that hed had Mr R traced abroad and that hed provide a statement about what  
happened. He said Mr R had admitted to providing  Company A with Mr Gs credit card 
details in error. Mr G said there  is no reason hed authorise the use of his card to pay 
someone elses debt.  He provided a letter from Company Is Secretary addressed to whom 
it may concern, dated April 2018,  explaining that the use of Mr Gs credit  card had not been 
authorised by him. She said shed been  appointed to ensure payment of Mr Gs credit  card 
bills while he was out of the country and that someone may have taken a copy of Mr Gs 
credit card while she wasnt looking.
Further information
Due to the complex  business and professional relationships involved in this case  I asked 
Mr G to explain more about  his business,  his relationship with Company M, and who Mr R is.
Mr G explained:
Company F sourced a business  loan for Company M from Company A. He agreed to 
get involved with funding a large  project  on the basis that a new company would be 
Ref: DRN95813954set up which  they would  take a stake in so to ensure all repayments were  made  as 
any issues would affect our credibility  with our lending partners.
Company M asked  him to give Company A some form of security until some funds 
they were expecting cleared. Having been  provided with proof of funds by Company 
Is Secretary (who was also employed by Company M) he told Mr R to reassure 
Company A that payment in full would  be made.
Mr R was an employee of Company F and was the account manager  for 
Company M; he arranged the loan from Company A.
He had looked to take over and run a number of contracts  run by Company M and so 
changed the name on his business  bank account in March 2018  to reflect  Company  
Ms name, as well as that of Company F, for continuity of invoicing. However, he 
didnt end up taking  over any of Company Ms contracts.
He believes Mr R was pressured  by Mr J to give Company A his credit  card details to 
clear Company Ms overdue payments.
Company Is credit  card should have been used, not his own.
While  Mr G was out of the office  Mr R would  have had access  to Mr Gs business  
email address and would have been  able to send  emails  from there. He believes 
Mr R accessed his email and provided  his card details to Company A.
He doesnt  know who gave his card details  to the software publishing company but 
he suspects it was Mr R or someone  in the office.
Mr R didnt provide a promised statement, has left Company F and his mobile phone 
is no longer connected.
The office where a copy of his card was kept was the shared office of Company M 
and Company I.
His BoS card could be used for any business-related expense for Company F only.
I also asked Mr G to explain  why hes often  communicated with us from a personal email 
address (i.e. one not associated with Company  F) in the name of Mr R. Mr G explained that 
he diverts his emails to Mr R when hes not in the office and so his replies to our emails will 
sometimes come out from Mr Rs personal  email.
Other available information
To better understand  the relevant relationships  Ive looked to publicly available information 
such as the edited electoral roll, historic domain registration records,  the Companies House 
register, and also information we hold on file. I think the following information is relevant:
There are some  records  relating  to Mr R that can be linked  to Mr G  for example, 
records for Mr R give Mr Gs home address  in 2015 and 2018.
Records suggest Mr G uses several variations of his name.
Website domain registration records show Mr R, not Mr G, as the registered owner of 
Company Fs website.
Mr G was a Director of Company I until May 2018. Company Is previous registered 
address was the subject of a charge registered against Company  M.
Company I shared  at least three company  officers  with Company M.
Mr G has previously made a witness statement for court  proceedings giving his 
address as an address which was the registered address of Company M from August 
2017 to April 2018.
In that witness statement, dated June 2018, he said hed agreed to be a personal  
guarantor for another of Company Ms loans  for a short period, and that hed made 
payments towards that loan when Company M faced difficulties.
Ref: DRN95813955The signature of Mr Rs Company F email address gave a mobile telephone number 
which is the same number Mr G has given us to contact him on.
Mr G corresponded  with us from Mr Rs personal  email  address (i.e. not one 
associated with Company F) in February  2019, July 2019 and August 2020.
Mr G has disputed another transaction on a different  personal  credit card to 
Company A  this happened  in January  2018.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October  2020.  In that decision I acknowledged that 
when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
Ill set out the relevant considerations below.
Of particular importance  to my decision about  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 
2009) and 2017 (the PSR 2017)  which  apply  to transactions  like the ones Mr G disputes. 
The PSR 2009  applied to transactions made before 13 January 2018, and the PSR 2017 
apply to transactions made on or after that date. Among other things the PSR 2017 include 
the following  (similar wording was used in the PSR 2009, Regulation 55):
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the 
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer  has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution  of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction  has been  authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
Where credit  is involved, as in this case, the PSR 2017 (and the PSR 2009) make provision 
for the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA)  1974  to apply  in place of certain sections of the PSR. 
These provisions cant be excluded by the account  terms. A consumers  liability  for 
payments involving a credit facility  is therefore  set out in section 83 of the CCA  1974.
Section 83 of the CCA 1974 says that a consumer isnt liable for any loss arising  from use 
of the credit  facility by another  person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors 
agent.
The PSR 2017  also include information relevant to when a payer  wishes to revoke a 
payment order. Regulation  83 (in the PSR 2009,  Regulation 67) says:
83.  (2) In the case of a payment transaction initiated  by or through the payee, 
the payer may not revoke the payment order after  giving consent to execute  the 
payment transaction to the payee 
Terms and conditions of Mr Gs account
Ref: DRN95813956The terms and conditions  of the credit card agreement included the following:
A2. Using  your credit
We will provide you with a card and security  details soon after opening your account. 
You must keep them safe as they give access to your credit 
B2.1 Keeping your card safe
You must:
follow instructions we give you that we reasonably consider are required to 
protect your card and security details from unauthorised use;
not use your card for anything illegal or for any business purpose;
not let anyone else give instructions or access information on your account  
unless there is a separate arrangement with us or they are a [Third  Party 
Provider];
keep your card secure and protected from damage;
if there is a place for signature,  sign your card as soon as you receive it; and
do all you reasonably  can to prevent anyone else finding out your security 
details.
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Taking into account the above relevant considerations, I think the key question  here 
is whether Mr G, or someone that can be treated as acting as his agent, made the 
disputed transactions.
Authorisation isnt limited to transactions for which explicit permission  has been 
given; BoS would also be entitled to hold Mr G liable for any transactions which  were  
done by someone  to whom he gave authority to act on his behalf. In other words, if a 
payer has permitted the use of his payment instrument by a third party (an agent) so 
that it looks to the bank  like the payment transaction has been authorised by the 
payer, the payment can be considered authorised for the purposes of the PSR 2009  
and 2017.
That isnt to say that Mr G would be responsible for any transactions where the 
payment instruction received  by the bank  is indistinguishable  from one he gave 
actual authority for. For example, a payment transaction carried  out by someone 
whod stolen Mr Gs card details would still rightly be described  as unauthorised, 
even though it might have  the same appearance from the banks perspective as a 
genuine transaction.
The important consideration here is what part Mr G played in permitting the 
transactions he disputes. So, Ive thought  about whether Mr G authorised  these 
transactions himself  or whether by his actions  Mr G held Mr R, or another  agent,  out 
as having his authority to make payment transactions using his credit card.
The first thing to say is that Mr Gs relationship with Company  M seems  to be more  
involved than he initially suggested. He wasnt just a broker  or middle man between  
Ref: DRN95813957Company M and a creditor,  but someone  who seems to have felt some obligation to 
ensure the repayment of Company Ms loan.  And theres evidence he was interested  
in the fortunes of Company M. Hes used a registered address of Company M as his 
own in the past,  theres evidence he agreed to act as personal  guarantor for another  
loan, and hes said he was planning  to take over some of Company Ms business at 
one point. Thats why he changed the name  of his business bank account  to include 
Company Ms name.  In these circumstances  Im minded to think  that the emails to 
Company A, purporting  to be from Mr G and offering credit card payments towards 
Company Ms debt,  are likely  to be genuine.
Mr G has said that the emails are not genuine  and that they were probably sent by 
one of his colleagues, Mr R. But Im not persuaded thats likely. I say this because I 
cant see a reason why Mr R would have needed to pose as Mr G. Mr R was already 
in communication  with Company A as the relevant account manager. And he had Mr 
Gs permission to offer a credit card to Company  A as security even if there was 
some confusion about which one. So, posing as Mr G to offer Company A security  
for Company Ms loan would have been unnecessary.
Aside from alleging that the emails arent from him, Mr G has been inconsistent  about 
who gave his card details to Company A as security. Hes said that his card was 
given to Company  A without his knowledge  and consent, but hes also said he gave  
his card as security. This inconsistency has added to my finding that the emails are, 
more likely than not, from Mr G.
Another aspect  of this case  that leads me to think Mr G knew about and authorised 
the disputed payments is the length of time that passed before he disputed  them.  
The transactions happened  between  December 2017 and March 2018 but theres no 
evidence that Mr G raised his disputes until April 2018 (the transaction to the 
software publishing company) and July 2018 (the transactions to Company A). 
Theres similarly no evidence  that BoS allowed  further payments to Company A after 
Mr G had raised his dispute. And when he did dispute the payments  to Company A, 
he didnt initially dispute the first one  the one that took place on 11 December 2017.
I think this delay might be due to the fact that negotiations between Company M and 
Company A, and Mr G/Company F were ongoing until April 2018.  From the 
correspondence Ive seen it seems that the figure for settling Company Ms loan was 
reached on the understanding that there  would be no further chargebacks on credit  
card payments previously  made. Why Mr G then decided to approach BoS in July 
2018 about refunding  the payments to Company A, I cant be sure.  Perhaps hed 
been reassured that he wouldnt need to pursue chargebacks because  hed be 
refunded by Company M.
But Company M went into administration on 4 April 2018. I can also see that Mr G 
made a witness statement  for court proceedings in mid-late 2018,  and that statement 
suggested his relationship  with Mr J/Company M had begun to breakdown. So, by 
July 2018 I expect Mr G had lost any hope of recouping his money from Company M.
As Ive said,  Im minded to think its more  likely  than not Mr G gave  his actual 
authority for Company  A to initiate payments on his BoS credit  card.  However, if Im 
wrong about that, and it was someone in the office that provided his card details  to 
Company A, I still dont  think  the transactions could  be fairly categorised as 
unauthorised. This is because Mr G left a copy of his BoS personal credit  card in the 
Ref: DRN95813958office for his colleagues to use. Hes said a copy of his credit  card was kept in an 
office cabinet in case it was ever needed  in his absence. He explained that his 
personal credit card could  be used  for Company F business-related expense  so long 
as on each occasion his permission was asked first.
By permitting his colleagues, including Mr R, to use his BoS credit  card in this way, I 
consider that Mr G gave  them the status  of his agents. If his colleagues  went further 
than Mr G intended by providing his card details to Company A and the software  
publishing company, I can see why Mr G feels wronged. But I think  its fair that BoS 
hold him liable for the spending  of those persons he made his agents.
I also note that Mr G has given us conflicting information about Mr R. Hes said that 
he dismissed Mr R after he became aware  that Mr R had given Company A his BoS 
credit card details (in 2018). Hes also said that Mr R is no longer contactable. Yet Mr 
G has used a personal email address of Mr Rs to correspond with us as recently as 
August 2020.  His explanation is that he diverts his emails to Mr R when hes not in 
the office. But diverting emails to a colleague youve dismissed and who you suspect  
of causing you a significant financial loss seems an odd thing to do.
Because of this Ive thought carefully about whether Mr R is actually an alias for Mr 
G. This would explain why Mr R seems to own the domain name for Company F and 
has given Mr Gs home address as his own in the past. It would also explain why Mr 
G has corresponded with us from Mr Rs personal  email address. If Mr R is an alias 
of Mr G then in either guise I think he gave  his consent to these transactions.  But if 
hes not, and Mr R is a genuine employee of Company F, its clear  that they are very 
closely connected. And I think these connections increase the likelihood  Mr G 
permitted Mr R to make  these transactions on his behalf.
Finally, Ive considered  the email Company A sent to Mr R on 18 December 2017,  
which referred to a request for Mr Rs credit  card details not to be used in respect to 
Company M. But I dont  find this email sufficient evidence that Mr G asked for his 
BoS credit  card not to be debited by Company A in January 2018  and March 2018. If 
he had made this request I think hed have been quicker to challenge the 
transactions which came after the date of that email. And as Ive said, there is no 
evidence that Mr G disputed these payments until July 2018.
Overall, I provisionally find that Mr G, either directly or through  those hed given the 
status of his agent, gave his consent to the execution of the payment transactions  he 
disputes. I therefore find BoS is entitled to hold him liable for them .
responses to my provisional  findings
In response to my provisional decision BoS agreed with the outcome and said they had 
nothing further  to add.
Mr G didnt accept what Id said. He said leaving his card details in the office should not 
make him liable for the transactions, and added that he did not expect the abuse of [his] 
credit card to be carried out by people [he] trusted. He said Mr R is not his alias and 
explained that the domain  name for Company  Fs website is registered to Mr R because  
Mr G doesnt get involved in such matters .
Ref: DRN95813959He reiterated that the settlement figure  Company M agreed with Company A was reached on 
the basis that previous payments made  by Company M, either on the company card or a 
personal card, would be charged back to the cards. He also provided  some further evidence.
Telephone calls
Mr G provided  an itemised telephone bill for his home landline relating to the period 
11 January to 9 February 2018.  He said this proves  he called BoS,  in respect  to the 
concerns I had over the unauthorised transactions with merchants I had never  had any 
dealings with. The telephone bill included calls to numbers associated  with BoS on 
13 January, 20 January,  29 January  and 3 February.
For reference, the disputed transactions debited Mr Gs account on 11 December 2017, 
8 January 2018, 12 January and 1 March.
I asked BoS about  these  calls, but they were unable to locate any recordings or notes from 
those dates. They explained that the calls dont appear on the credit card system. They  said 
its possible Mr G called  them on these dates, spent some time on hold and ended the calls 
before speaking with staff.  But they also explained that they changed their telephony system 
in 2018, and that not every call to them is recorded.
Statement from Mr R
Mr G also submitted a statement from Mr R, acquired through a private detective. In the 
statement Mr R said:
He worked for Company F and from the offices  of Company I.
He worked with suppliers who requested payment and was asked to use the 
company credit  card as security, in Mr Gs name, whilst he got [the company  
secretary/Mr J]  to directly settle these  liabilities.
At no time did I intend to use the personal  credit  card of Mr G, and only used the 
details as provided to me by [the company secretary]  I am of the view that Mr Gs 
card was deliberately  provided to me 
He didnt make all of the disputed transactions  and Mr G was not aware of them 
either.
 the card details  must have been provided  by someone else in the office,  who had 
access to the credit  cards  of Mr G without his knowledge and consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
For all the reasons set out in my provisional  decision (reproduced  above) I still think  its more 
likely than not that Mr G either  made the disputed  transactions himself or, by his actions, 
authorised someone  else to make them.
I remain of the view that Mr Gs complex relationship with Company M and his interest in 
Company Ms fortunes, make it more  likely  than not the emails  sent to Company A from 
Mr Gs email address, offering payment on his personal credit  card,  are likely to be genuine.  
Ref: DRN958139510Although theres  been inconsistency in what hes said, Mr G has indicated a number of times 
that he gave his card to Company A as security. I think  he did so in the expectation that 
Company M would reimburse him from funds it was about to receive.
Ive thought carefully about whether the telephone bill evidence  Mr G has provided shows  
that he disputed  the payments to Company A, or the software publishing company,  earlier  
than April 2018 (software publishing company) and July 2018 (the payments to Company A). 
If he did dispute them close  in time to when  they happened that might indicate  that someone 
did them  without his involvement.
It is unfortunate that BoS cant provide any detail of what  these calls were  about. But that 
doesnt mean I must assume they were about disputing  the payments. Because  the calls to 
BoS listed on Mr Gs itemised bill took place on or after 13 January 2018, I accept its 
possible that he called to dispute the first payment to Company A, the payment to the 
software publishing company and the second  payment to Company A. He might even have 
asked that no further  payments be allowed towards Company A. But if thats what happened,  
Id expect BoS to have  at least some notes about  at least one of these calls on the credit 
card system. Id also have  expected Mr G to react more swiftly when the third payment to 
Company A debited  his card on 1 March  2018.
But the credit card contact  notes  have no entries between 27 November 2017 and 
26 February 2018 except  for an automatic memo about an address change. And the card 
issue history shows  that there  were  no new cards issued for this account between  
September 2017 and 18 May 2018.  So, although I cant say what  Mr G called BoS about on 
13 January, 20 January,  29 January  or 3 February. Im not persuaded it was to report any 
unauthorised use of his card.
I also note that Mr G told BoS that after noticing  the payments on his January 2018  
statement he sent them a letter to cancel the card because  he didnt have time to call. Thats  
inconsistent with what hes now saying  the telephone bill evidence  shows. It also strikes me 
that there  were £5,200 of disputed payments on that January  statement. So, writing would 
be an unusually relaxed way to raise  fraud  concerns.  And if he did call or write  to BoS, Id 
question why Mr G didnt  follow that contact up because it would have been obvious  to him 
that BoS hadnt cancelled  his card. I can see that it continued to be used for transactions 
towards the end of January 2018 and in February.
Im also mindful that Mr G continued to have a professional  relationship with Company M 
into March and April 2018  this is when he changed the name on his business  bank 
account to include  Company Ms name  and paid the settlement figure to Company A through  
that bank account.  And I think its unlikely hed have done that if hed really had no 
knowledge of the transactions, had disputed them with BoS,  and thought Mr R had been  
pressured or duped  into using his personal credit  card to repay Company Ms loan.
So, on balance, Im still not persuaded that Mr G disputed any payments towards the 
software publishing company or Company A before April 2018  and July 2018 respectively. 
This delay  contributes to my finding that its more likely than not Mr G knew about these 
transactions at the time and gave his actual authority for them.
Turning to the statement Mr G has provided  from Mr R, I dont find this sufficient evidence to 
change what I said in my provisional decision. Although I accept the statement indicates  
Mr R is not an alias for Mr G, I still think, if someone other than Mr G made these 
Ref: DRN958139511transactions, it was a colleague or colleagues who Mr G had clothed with his apparent 
authority to transact  by allowing them to access and use his personal card.
Mr G hasnt been consistent in what hes said about the access  colleagues had. But what 
hes said suggests they had access and his permission  to use the card in a limited  way, and 
went beyond what he expected. Hes described what  happened  as an abuse  of trust. But 
not knowing about the transactions, doesnt  mean the transactions  on the BoS card were 
unauthorised. I still think Mr G permitted Mr R and other colleagues  to use his card.  If they 
then mixed up which card they used  for which transaction or made  more  transactions than 
Mr G was aware of, I think thats  a risk Mr G exposed himself  to.
In conclusion, on the balance of the evidence, I think its more  likely than not that Mr G made 
or otherwise authorised the transactions that he disputes. On that basis, I find BoSs  refusal 
to refund Mr G fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9581395