K820x#14Complaint
Mr L and Miss R say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr L and Miss R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr L and Miss R paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them  both in 
case either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L and Miss R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Miss Rs case. 
Ive decided that Mr L and Miss Rs PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was 18 years  ago and the accounts  involved have long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have all the original documents from the time. Mr L and 
Miss R dont remember choosing PPI, and I also think thats understandable given  all the 
time thats  passed,  and since buying insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully  
about whats most likely  to have happened  based on the information I have.
From what  Ive seen of the sale, it looks like Mr L and Miss R applied for their mortgage  
through a broker,  then applied for PPI separately. The mortgage application explained that 
Mr L and Miss R had to have buildings insurance,  whereas PPI was just something Halifax 
recommended  it wasnt a requirement. Mr L left his details with Halifax so they could 
discuss what insurance he and Miss R would like. I can see Halifax later sent Mr L and 
Miss R a letter thanking  them  for applying for various insurances, including  PPI. It looks  like 
Mr L and Miss R applied  for PPI separately to the mortgage, and wouldve set up a separate  
direct debit to pay for it  it wasnt part and parcel  of the mortgage  itself. Overall, I think its 
most likely that Halifax made  Mr L and Miss R aware they had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer 
remember doing so after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L and Miss R, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr L and Miss R were  eligible  for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. While they had some benefits through work and some savings, 
these wouldve only lasted so long and often only covered a fraction of their normal income. 
Whereas the PPI offered  Mr L and Miss R much more comprehensive cover, and it wouldve  
paid out on top of their existing benefits.  Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr L and Miss R fell 
behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really  been 
useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN95729102Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr L and Miss R about PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr L and Miss R werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve  really been useful for them in case  
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr L and Miss R could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr L and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9572910