K822xcomplaint
Mr V complains that his application to transfer  his Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mortgage to a 
new interest rate didnt  complete.
background
Mr V has a mortgage with Bank of Ireland and his preferential interest rate was coming  to an 
end. He spoke  to an adviser  on 15 February  2018  and a new five-year  fixed rate product 
was selected.  The product had a £995 application  fee and Mr V said hed call back  to pay it.
The product  transfer  offer was sent to Mr V on 16 February, along with a direct debit 
mandate (DDM) as hed cancelled his previous direct debit in 2015  and it was a condition  
of the mortgage  that the payments be made that way. Mr V paid the fee on 19 February.
On 26 February Bank of Ireland  received  the signed mortgage offer. As the DDM  hadnt  
been returned with the offer the bank wrote  to Mr V to remind him that it was needed, and 
said if it wasnt received by 18 March then the application would be closed.
Nothing further happened until Mr V requested a fresh DDM online in July 2018, and then in 
February 2019 he complained that his product  transfer hadnt gone  through.
Bank of Ireland  didnt uphold his complaint as it said it hadnt received the DDM back,  but it 
did apologise for not refunding the product fee. It said it would return  the product fee to the 
card from which  itd been paid, and it offered £100  compensation for the delay in returning 
the fee.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but felt £200 compensation 
was more appropriate for the delay. Bank of Ireland agreed to that. Mr V didnt  accept it and 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  - including listening to the phone  calls - and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
I trust Mr V wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole  file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr Vs submissions  about whether he returned the DDM have been  contradictory.  Mr V now 
says he returned  the DDM  at the time, and sent a second copy  in July 2018.  But when Mr V 
complained to Bank of Ireland over the phone in February 2019 he twice  admitted he hadnt  
signed and returned the DDM, saying:
But apparently  it didnt  get the go ahead because I didnt sign my direct  debit  mandate, 
right er, nobody  made  me aware of the direct debit mandate.
But obviously its not binding because I didnt sign the direct debit mandate.
Ref: DRN97623762Mr V may say he was simply repeating  what the bank had told him the reason was, but Im 
satisfied thats  not the case bearing in mind the context and the remainder of the call. Mr V 
was precise about  other matters, so had he signed  and returned  the DDM (twice) I would 
have expected him to make that clear in this call.
I must also keep in mind  that despite  saying  he sent a DDM in twice Mr V continued to make  
manual mortgage  payments every month without querying it. I would  have expected Mr V to 
have contacted Bank of Ireland to check when the direct debit(s)  would be taking effect if he 
hadnt heard  anything; otherwise he risked duplicate payments being  made.  Mr V also said 
he assumed everything  had gone through with the product transfer  as he didnt hear 
anything further.  But if that was the case it doesnt  make sense that he continued to pay his 
mortgage manually  as he knew it was a condition  of the mortgage that he paid by direct 
debit with the new rate. So if it had gone through  then Mr V wouldnt have needed to make 
manual mortgage  payments.
The need  for the DDM was made clear at the time, with the product transfer offer saying 
Because you do not currently pay by Direct Debit we have  enclosed  a mandate  which  you 
will need  to complete and return. Please note that we will not complete this rate switch until 
we have received  your signed Direct Debit.
And on 26 February 2018 Bank of Ireland  chased this up by letter saying the offer was about  
to expire and it hadnt received the DDM. It said if it didnt hear from Mr V by 18 March then it 
would close its file. The letter ended by reminding Mr V that its a condition of the offer that 
he pays by direct debit.
Mr V was also sent an annual mortgage  statement in April 2018 which showed the mortgage 
was on the standard variable rate, not the preferential fixed rate Mr V had applied  for. 
Interestingly Mr V increased his mortgage payments after that statement  was issued by £100 
a month, from an amount  that was less than needed on the standard variable rate to an 
amount that would now cover it each month.
Mr V says he didnt receive  the 26 February letter  or the April 2018 annual  mortgage 
statement. Thats unfortunate, and very unusual as they were both correctly  addressed.  He 
also says he sent back two DDMs that didnt reach Bank of Ireland, and unfortunately he 
didnt follow  them up despite knowing it was a condition of his mortgage. Its concerning that 
post doesnt seem to reach Mr V, and that there also seems to be a problem  with items he 
posts back. I can only suggest he raises  those issues with the Royal Mail as it forms a 
concerning picture  of post going  astray - in both directions  - in Mr Vs area.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr V is the one bringing the complaint against 
Bank of Ireland,  to uphold the complaint Mr Vs version (in that he says he did return the 
DDM) needs to be more  likely than Bank  of Irelands  version; not just as likely. Having 
considered everything  I cant  say Mr Vs version is anything  more than just as likely, which  
isnt enough for me to uphold his complaint.
Bank of Ireland  has already  admitted  it made a mistake in the delay in refunding  the product 
fee, so I dont need to make a finding  on what happened, or why. Whilst I acknowledge how 
frustrating it is when  a business makes  a mistake, mistakes do happen. In this case it was 
simple human error.
Ref: DRN97623763Bank of Ireland  said it would refund the fee and has agreed to pay £200 compensation for 
the delay in refunding it to Mr V. Having  looked at all the evidence   and keeping in mind the 
level of award we normally make  I consider  that offer to be fair and reasonable.
Mr V says the product fee being refunded would have prompted  him to notice that the 
transfer hadnt completed but Im not persuaded by that. There  were many  others  flags  that 
should have drawn Mr Vs attention  to that and he didnt act on those,  so Im not persuaded 
its more likely than not that a refund  would  have prompted him into action when all those 
others didnt.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint but only insofar as I consider the existing  offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable. To that end I order  Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to refund 
the product fee and pay £200 to Mr V, if its not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9762376