K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that when they took out their Premier Service Reward Black account 
in June 2017 with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), the travel insurance was not of 
a high enough standard and so not suitable for them.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a joint fee free account with NatWest in September  1997. 
They upgraded to a joint Premier Service Reward Black  account  in June 2017.
The Premier Service Reward Black account  contained travel  insurance. Mr and Mrs P had 
cause to make a claim on the travel insurance  and part of the claim was turned down.
Mr and Mrs P say that this means  the travel insurance was not suitable for them as a 
Premier Service  Reward Black  account holder.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and did not uphold  it. Mr and Mrs P 
disagree, so the complaint has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that the travel  insurance  they were  given  in June 2017 should 
have been of the highest quality as it was part of the Premier Service  Reward Black  product. 
But they say it wasnt because their claim in a certain scenario was turned down.
To be clear, the response of the insurance  company to their claim is not the subject  of this 
complaint as any issue with the claim would need  to be taken  up with the insurance 
company before this service could consider it.
Ive considered their representations about  the sale of the Premier Service  Reward  Black  
product very carefully. 
In my view, the fact that a product is branded Premier or Reward  Black  does not of itself 
imply its the best in the market. But I think it would be reasonable to assume  it implies  that 
its better than many  or even most other  products in the marketplace.
In this case the Premier  Service  Reward  Black  account Mr and Mrs P took out included 
worldwide travel insurance, worldwide airport lounge access, home emergency service, 
European car breakdown cover, 24 hour concierge  service and preferential banking  offers.  
And NatWest has shown that the travel policy received a 5 star (maximum) rating  from an 
independent insurance rating service. 
The Premier Service Reward Black brand is aligned to all of this plus the operation of the 
bank account  itself. Ive looked at all of this together including  particularly the travel 
insurance policy provided. And in my view it is of a high standard  when compared to other  
Ref: DRN93272872competing products  Ive looked at in the bank account market. So I dont think I can say Mr 
and Mrs P were misled by the branding about  the general nature of the package  they were 
buying.
When a bank account is sold, the bank  is required to ensure that its suitable  for the 
consumer and that sufficient information  is provided. Mr and Mrs P clearly  used  the product 
extensively and so I think it was generally  suitable for them. 
NatWest has provided evidence that it sent Mr and Mrs P a summary and all the details of 
the product including the travel insurance  policy for them to read. So I think they had good 
information on which to base their decision to buy or not. 
Ive considered whether NatWest should  have highlighted  the scenario Mr and Mrs P refer to 
in their written summary or in any conversation it had with them. The very specific  nature of 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim that was not paid by the insurer is such that I dont think the usually 
acceptable summary of a policy  would include it. But in my view the full policy statement they 
were given did provide  enough information for them to be aware they may not be covered 
during the scenario theyve described.
So I dont  think NatWest  did anything  wrong when it sold the Premier Service  Reward  Black  
account to Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9327287