K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him two Total  Mortgage Protection  Plans  
(TMPPs).
background
In October  2002, Mr L took out a mortgage  during a meeting with Halifax. Around the same 
time, Mr L was sold a TMPP (TMP8097) that included mortgage  repayment cover,  which 
is a form of payment  protection insurance  (PPI). Mr L also took life insurance and critical 
illness cover  (CIC). The PPI cost £21.80 per month  and if Mr L was too ill to work or made 
redundant, the policy would have paid out £365.48  for up to 24 months per claim. 
Mr L cancelled the policy in September 2004 following the arrangement  of a new TMPP 
(TMP7077) in August  2004. Its not clear how or why the new TMPP was sold.  But it also 
provided PPI, life and CIC. The PPI cost £25.59 per month and the benefit  increased to 
£428.75. As before, this would have  been  paid for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
I have considered the sale of the PPI policies only. Having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
did Halifax mis-sell PPI on TMP8097
Halifax had to let Mr L know  the policy was optional  and it had to get his consent before it 
added PPI to his account. Halifax  said it did this. But Mr L says PPI wasnt discussed  and it 
was added without  his knowledge.
Mr L has queried why Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents  to show that he 
agreed to PPI. But the sale took place a long time ago and so I dont think  its unreasonable  
that Halifax is no longer  able to provide this. Mr L hasnt been  able to provide any documents 
himself and he hasnt  provided a detailed testimony  of what  happened  either.  So I have to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
Weve seen a number of similar  sales by Halifax around this time and we usually find that 
the optional nature of the policy was made  clear. And that its customers had to consent  in 
order for a TMPP to be added to their account.  Without any further  information,  based on 
what we know, I think its more likely than not that Mr L agreed to take the policy  at the time 
and that he knew  it was optional.
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr L which means  it had to check  the policy  was 
suitable for Mr L. Based on what Ive seen, I think it was. I say this because:
Mr L was eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN96313552Mr L doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the things that might have made 
it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having  a pre-existing medical 
condition or unusual employment  circumstances.
Mr L says he would have received  12 months full sick pay and that this could be 
extended dependent on the illness. He also says he had savings or insurance worth 
less than three months of his pay. Ive thought about this carefully,  but the policy  
would have paid out for up to 24 months  and theres  no guarantee Mr Ls sick pay 
would have been paid for this long. And Mr L could have claimed on the policy  again  
after a requalification period.
Mr L has said he had CIC in place,  but this provides a different type of protection  to 
PPI and so this doesnt make the policy unsuitable for him. 
The mortgage was a big and long term commitment secured against  Mr Ls home,  so 
the consequences of not being  able to keep up payments could have been serious 
for him. So I think the policy  could have been  useful  to him.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable to Mr L.
Halifax also had to give Mr L enough  information about the terms and cost of the policy so 
he could decide  whether  it was right for him. 
I dont know what was discussed in the meeting, so I cant  say whether Mr L was made 
aware of the cost of the policy. But considering the benefit it provided, I dont think  the cost 
would have put him off. And for the same reasons as I think the policy  was suitable for Mr L, 
I dont think better information  about  the terms would have changed his decision to buy it.
did Halifax mis-sell PPI on TMP7077
Halifaxs system  notes show that he called to cancel TMP8097 in September 2004.  Based 
on what Ive seen, the new policy didnt duplicate the cover Mr L already  had as Mr L didnt 
start paying for TMP7077 until October 2004.
Mr L provided the same circumstances for the sale in August 2004 as he did for the first 
sale. And I have similar  post-sale information available to me as well, so I think:
Its more likely than not that Mr L was aware he had a choice about buying the PPI 
and that he chose to take it at the time.
The policy was recommended to Mr L and that it was suitable  for him based on what 
we know about  his circumstances.
There isnt anything  to suggest the policy was unaffordable to Mr L.
I dont think the cost would have put Mr L off buying the policy.
While  Mr L may not have been given all of the information he needed about the 
terms, I dont think  better information  would  have made a difference to his decision.
Ref: DRN96313553This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold  in either sale. So Halifax  doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mr L paid for the policies. But Halifax has offered to give Mr L back  some 
of the cost of the PPI and I dont  think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9631355