K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from CIS General Insurance  Limited, trading 
as Co-Operative  Insurance (CIS), following a claim he made on his home insurance policy 
after a fire broke out at his property.
background
In May 2018, a fire caused by an electrical fault, broke out in the house  occupied by Mr S 
and his partner.  Mr S and his partner are elderly people  with disabilities. Although much of 
our correspondence  has been with Mr Ss partner, writing on his behalf, for simplicitys sake I 
shall largely refer to Mr S throughout.
Smoke caused widespread damage  and the property was rendered uninhabitable. Mr S 
moved to alternative  accommodation while reinstatement works were  carried  out. His 
complaint has a number  of separate elements:
Delays to repairs
The fire occurred  in May 2018, but repairs began in late October. Full reinstatement of the 
property was required by a range of contractors, including a professional clean, full re-wiring, 
and redecoration,  besides forensic  investigations  into the cause of the fire and the presence  
of asbestos. Repairs  had an initial  anticipated completion date in mid-December.
Delays were caused  by unforeseen variations to the repair schedule.  Works  weren't initially  
carried out in the conservatory,  which Mr S used as his dining room, because the contractor 
reported that the electrics there  didnt  form part of the claim. Mr S disputed  this and as there 
was no conclusive evidence either way, CIS decided to carry out the repairs in any case, as 
a gesture of goodwill.  A new job completion  date was set for January 2019.
Quality of the contractors workmanship
Mr S felt that the workmanship of many of the repairs was poor and that the electrical works, 
in particular, were sub-standard  and potentially  dangerous.  Mr S told us some  work was 
incomplete and no electricity safety  certificate  was provided. He said this made him and his 
partner feel unsafe  and uneasy about returning  home. So, Mr S obtained his own surveyors  
report, highlighting issues with the contractors  workmanship. He even felt strongly enough  
to arrange a further period  of alternative  accommodation while the electrics  were restored. A 
certificate was finally issued in March 2019  and an electrician gave assurances the property 
was safe.
Alternative accommodation while safety  of electrical  work in dispute
In line with the terms of their policy, CIS arranged alternative accommodation for Mr S and 
his partner while works to their property were being carried out. Initially this was in an hotel  
and then in a rental property, with rented furniture that was appropriate  to their needs. 
Although it was originally  anticipated that repairs would be completed  by December 2018, 
the contractors said that works would extend into January 2019. Mr S was then told he could 
return home in February. But the works  still werent  complete. Accommodation was 
extended to mid-March while further  work  on the electrics was completed. Mr S then agreed 
to a further period of accommodation  towards  the end of March  at his own expense.
Ref: DRN97517822Failure to use Mr Ss son effectively as a point  of contact
CIS accepts  its records show Mr S gave permission  for his son to discuss  his claim with 
them on Mr Ss behalf.  They  also accept that Mr Ss son asked CIS to deal with him directly. 
Over the course of the repairs, however,  Mr S often made contact with CIS or their 
contractors, asking for updates or discussing aspects of their claim.  CIS then updated  Mr S, 
only to be subsequently contacted by his son. This caused duplication of communication 
leading to some confusion.  Mr Ss son felt CIS hadnt respected his request to spare his 
father the frustrations of having to deal with both the insurer  and contractors.
Delay in making payments to Mr S
Mr S was owed £746.07, for the replacement  and fitting of some vinyl flooring. CIS 
recognised that payment for this was due and accepted that it was delayed.
Mr S also paid more than hed been  allocated for the replacement of some tiles. CISs  policy  
terms are clear that damaged goods  are replaced on a like-for-like basis. But Mr S paid an 
additional £1,446.64 for tiles of a higher  quality  and, in part, to cover  an area which  hadnt  
previously been  tiled. CIS couldnt agree this additional cost as they didnt think  it was 
reasonable. Mr S told us it was impossible to replace  the original tiles as theyd been 
discontinued. He also told us that while the contractor had said he had a deadline by which 
to fit the tiles (so they had to be bought  as soon as possible),  most  of the tiles had to be 
ordered well in advance. Mr S also said he was told that tiles werent obtainable  at the price 
CIS was offering, so he selected what was available at the time.
Mr S complained and CIS upheld Mr Ss complaint.  They  apologised for the distress  and 
inconvenience the various issues had caused.  They offered a payment of £200 in 
compensation, besides interest for the delay in making payments. Mr S declined the offer 
which he said was inadequate. And he complained  to us.
In his view, our investigator  didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that hed looked  at the 
various elements  and hed considered how CIS had behaved in respect of each. He said he 
thought CIS had acted fairly  and done everything they needed to do under the 
circumstances and that their offer of compensation was reasonable. So, he wouldnt be 
asking CIS to do anything  further.
In his response to our view, Mr S sent us a long list of works, set out room by room, which  
he said were either outstanding or the workmanship had been poorly carried out. We sent 
these detailed comments to CIS. Subsequent  correspondence from Mr S, as late as 
February 2020, repeated that there were still significant problems with faulty electrics, central 
heating, lack of hot water  and water  leakage, on a daily basis. Mr S said his house was 
effectively no longer fit for purpose and neither he nor his partner felt safe staying there.
Rather than consider Mr Ss list of works, CIS set up a new complaint and, in May 2020,  sent 
out a final response  to Mr S. This new complaint  was framed  in terms of CIS having failed to 
visit to view the outstanding works to assess its quality, rather  than addressing  Mr Ss 
complaints about  workmanship  head  on. And CIS referred to this current complaint as being 
a previous complaint  which  was still being  reviewed by an ombudsman.  And said they 
wouldnt be adding any further comment. They said this was because the incomplete repairs  
and poor workmanship  that Mr S had told them about in his response to our view and 
subsequently, hadnt previously been  raised.  Mr S told CIS that hed await the outcome of 
the present complaint.
Ref: DRN97517823CIS acknowledged that Mr S wouldnt allow the loss adjusters or the existing contractors to 
visit his property. And, that hed await the outcome of the ombudsmans  review  of what  they 
called the previous complaint. And they said that if Mr S wouldnt allow a visit, while they 
were sorry,  theyd have to refer the new complaint to the ombudsman  too.
But because Mr S didnt  agree  with our investigators view, the case  has come to me for a 
decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I note that CIS has already gone  some way to acknowledge and make up for the difficulties 
caused Mr S, so Ill be considering whether their approach was fair in all the circumstances. 
But I do think CIS were wrong to treat Mr Ss response to our view as a new complaint and 
they shouldnt  have issued a further final response letter.  So far as were  concerned,  
because Mr Ss list was sent in response to our investigators view and related to the issue  
of workmanship - which was included in the substantive complaint - carried out by the 
original contractors, it forms  part of the original complaint. And while CIS refused to consider 
Mr Ss response to the view, arguing  that they hadnt been  made  aware of these  problems 
before, which  they said were new and should be omitted from the present complaint, I dont 
agree.
So, Ive taken into account Mr Ss response  to the view, as I believe Im entitled  to do.
Delays to repairs
CIS doesnt dispute there was delay.  But they said that one of the major causes was the 
question of whether  the electrics in the conservatory  had formed  part of the original claim. 
CIS said that these  hadnt been included in the initial assessment, and if this question  hadnt 
arisen, works to the property would have  been carried  out to the original schedule.  I agree 
that their later inclusion in the works  as a gesture of goodwill, contributed a little to the delay, 
taking repairs into the new year. And I also think Mr Ss request, in November, for the 
replacement of the existing contractor may have made a further minor contribution to the 
delay.
And I accept  this was a wide-ranging job, so was never going to be over quickly,  or as 
quickly as anyone would want. But the completion  date slipped again  and again from 
December to January,  then two dates in February,  then to mid-March. Even though  the 
repairs themselves were all pretty straightforward. So, although  there were mitigating  factors  
that CIS can point to, I think, on balance, CIS and its contractors should  have  done  a far 
better job here as the works did take far longer than they needed to.
Quality of the contractors workmanship
Mr S told us that the workmanship of the repairs, and of the electrical works in particular, 
was sub-standard.  And he said that he and his partner felt unsafe returning to the property. 
Given that the fire had been  caused  by an electrical fault in the first place, I can understand 
that Mr S would be nervous about  going  home  until he was satisfied it was safe to do so. 
Mr S felt strongly  enough  about this to arrange a further period in alternative  accommodation  
Ref: DRN97517824while works were completed, which he paid for himself. An electrical  safety certificate was 
only issued on 26 March  2019, whereas CIS told Mr S he could return  home  in February.
Ive listened to calls between CIS and Mr Ss son who said that, following the works,  hed 
arranged a number  of informal viewings of the property. He said hed shown the work to an 
electrician who had said that the repairs were  not safe. He said he had also been told by 
an architect that the standard of workmanship of the repairs  was poor. He also gave an 
informal viewing to an estate agent  who said that the property was not inhabitable at the 
point that Mr S were  being invited to return home in February when  repairs  were still 
incomplete, with no flooring in the kitchen  and no hinges on internal doors.
Even after Mr S had returned home  in March,  he faced a plethora  of problems around the 
house. To select just a few examples from the list he provided:  in the kitchen, poor quality 
units had been  installed, badly fitted  and many not straight and with shelves missing;  one TV  
co-axial socket was missing, and (elsewhere) another didnt work; part of a skirting board 
was missing; the new sink tap had been installed  too low to fill a kettle; there  were  fewer 
electrical sockets and some of these installed in the wrong places necessitating  the use of 
extension leads; space  for a fridge  had originally  been omitted altogether and was 
subsequently too narrow; and the outside  drain was blocked with waste.
Elsewhere in the house, the shower tiling wasnt level,  the shower tray and wash  basin tap 
leaked, and the radiator  had no thermostat and had not been fixed securely. In the 
bathroom, grouting had been carried out poorly  and incompletely. The sliding doors of the 
hall cupboard  were poorly fitted. No instructions had been  left for use of the central  heating  
thermostat and neither  the plumber, electrician nor even  gas safety inspector were able to 
operate it. And the sensor had been  installed  in the loft which is inaccessible to both Mr S 
and his partner.  The gas fire was no longer working, there were missing curtain rails in two 
rooms and holes  had been  left in the wood  floor and skirting board. Finally,  (and perhaps  of 
particular significance for an elderly  couple with disabilities) the handrail on the stairs  had 
only one screw replaced rather  than the original six.
So, I think CISs management and oversight of their contractors  was extremely poor and 
they should have done a better job here too. And despite the issue  of poor workmanship  
being raised on several occasions by Mr S and his son, I dont think  CIS really  took the point 
very seriously. I think that not only did the contractors  fail to carry out the quality of service 
required but CISs management and supervision should have been much  better. And they 
should have been a great deal more sensitive  to the concerns of Mr S, given his age and 
infirmity and that of his partner.
Even this year,  significant  problems remain, with faulty electrics,  faulty  central heating, lack 
of hot water  and water  leakage on a daily basis. These are not new developments. Theyre  
problems that were never properly rectified  in the first place. Though,  for the avoidance of 
doubt, I shall only be considering Mr Ss distress and inconvenience  up to the point of CIS 
final response letter.
So, whereas  CIS were  responsible for repairing Mr Ss house, they still havent done so, 
even now. So, I think that, collectively, for both the delays and poor workmanship, it would 
be fair and reasonable for CIS to pay Mr S a further  £1,000 in compensation for the 
significant distress and inconvenience these  elements caused.
Alternative accommodation while safety  of electrical  work in dispute
Ref: DRN97517825CIS provided  alternative accommodation to Mr S following his evacuation from the property  
in May, in accordance with the original anticipated  timescale of the repairs. When this had to 
be extended, the rental property was extended. CIS apologised that the provision of further  
accommodation wasnt considered at the time the repair  of the electrics in the conservatory 
were carried  out. They  later reimbursed Mr S the cost of the additional days he paid for 
accommodation while the works  were  completed.
When Mr Ss son reported that despite Mr S being supposed to move  back  into his home 
because the alternative accommodation had expired, repairs were still incomplete, CIS 
extended the alternative accommodation again. First to later in February and, eventually, 
another four weeks to mid-March. The rental  of furniture  was also extended.
So, I think that that CIS has largely acted fairly and reasonably  in this matter  and did what I'd 
expect them to in line with their policy.
Mr S also said he wasnt  comfortable with his personal belongings remaining in the property 
during the repairs  but I think CIS did everything  it needed to in this respect too. And, in the 
event, there  was no loss or damage.
Failure to use Mr Ss son effectively as a point  of contact
Ive listened to eight telephone conversations between Mr S and/or his partner and CIS, and 
Mr Ss son and CIS, besides  reading notes of others. Although  Mr Ss sons  role is certainly 
referred to on several occasions, neither Mr S nor his partner had any reluctance  or difficulty 
in communicating  with CIS and often did so at some  length. I also note that, at one point, 
even Mr Ss son asks CIS to copy me in rather than to replace his father altogether.  I think 
CIS did, rightly, maintain regular contact although  their communication  could have been 
tighter in terms of who they were reporting  to. It was a slightly  confusing situation,  however, 
and CIS were in a tricky position as Mr S was contacting  them and was the insured person 
on the policy.
CIS has apologised that Mr Ss son felt side-lined  but I dont think any harm was done and I 
dont think CIS did anything wrong here.
Delay in making payments
Payment of £746.07 for the vinyl flooring was agreed in February. As CIS acknowledged  the 
delay and apologised, and added interest of 8% up to the date of payment,  theyve  done  
what I would  expect  them to do here.
CIS has also made clear  that damaged goods are only replaced on a like-for-like basis  so 
they couldnt agree the additional £1,446.64  Mr S spent on tiles. Ive seen CISs policy  terms 
and listened to a long telephone conversation between Mr Ss partner and CIS discussing 
the point. Mr Ss partner  explained shed agreed to pay the difference  in order to ensure the 
job was carried out and had taken tiles that were available on the day. She also made clear 
to CIS in this call that she never expected them to pay for the additional tiles. I accept this.
But having  looked through the file and listened to the call, its not clear to me whether CIS 
have actually handed over the amount they had originally allocated  for the tiles yet. If not, 
they should do so immediately so that Mr S is not left out of pocket in respect of that part of 
his claim any longer.
Ref: DRN97517826Summary
Ive considered Mr Ss account which has been  consistent throughout his complaint. And I 
appreciate that this whole  situation has caused  him a great deal of anxiety and 
inconvenience. Ive likewise considered  all the actions  CIS has taken and note that they 
acknowledged the impact they caused  and offered £200 in compensation. And, in the main, I 
think they acted  fairly  but I dont think that the compensation they offered is enough.
To summarise my decision:
delay, I think CIS and their contractors  shouldnt have taken as long as they did;
workmanship, I think this was very poor and CISs management was very poor too;
alternative accommodation, I think CIS acted fairly and reasonably  in this respect;
son as point of contact, although communication  was imperfect,  CIS has apologised;
delay in payments,  CIS has acted fairly and reasonably in this respect too.
So, in considering compensation for Mr S, Im confining myself to delay and workmanship. 
And when  I consider the extent of the delays, with a return  home  date shifting from 
December to January,  then two dates in February,  then to mid-March, even taking into 
account the extended works, as Ive said, I dont think  the £200  CIS offered is sufficient.
Im also extremely  concerned that even in mid-February 2020, repairs to Mr Ss home
remained incomplete and his house was still in disarray. This dovetails  with the original
complaint about  poor workmanship. Given the lack of flooring, hinges, unsafe  electrics in 
2019, and a round of significant problems reported  in 2020 which had remained  outstanding  
throughout, I just dont  think  CIS took the situation  seriously enough. This is because  Mr S 
and his partner  were elderly and infirm and were being encouraged to return to a house  
which they had to leave due a fire caused by an electrical fault,  and which now seems  barely  
fit for purpose for two such people.
Given this, as I have already mention,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for CIS to pay 
Mr S a further £1,000 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Im also concerned that Mr S appears  to have reached a standoff with CIS in terms of the 
visit to his property  thats necessary to assess any incomplete work and/or poor 
workmanship. First off, I understand that delays have been  caused as a result of the 
pandemic and Mr Ss vulnerability. This has been unavoidable. But as soon as government 
guidelines allow, and Mr S and his partner  feel comfortable, CIS should arrange  another  visit 
as soon as practically  possible.
I also understand that CIS dont have  in-house  loss adjusters or contractors. And they 
appoint senior  suppliers and/or contractors to make  an assessment and write a report.  But I 
think CIS should give further consideration to Mr Ss grave reservations about  having the 
original contractors on site and provide an assurance that this wont happen.
Then I think  an independent surveyor, accompanied by a representative  from CIS, if 
possible, should visit Mr Ss home as a matter  of priority to survey the property and assess 
any incomplete work or poor workmanship, with Mr S in attendance  to point out all the 
details. I think it would  be helpful if CIS provided  Mr S with the particulars of three  surveyors  
to allow  him to select one. The surveyor can be considered jointly  appointed but paid for by 
CIS. The surveyor can then review the situation and provide a report for the benefit of all the 
Ref: DRN97517827parties. This will then allow me to consider the report and reach a final decision  on that 
basis.
the response to my provisional  decision
CIS responded saying they agreed that a further visit should take place, perhaps with the 
option of an independent  surveyor.  And they reiterated and explained the difficulties in 
respect of a revisit to assess any faulty  workmanship. They  also said they thought the new  
damage had been  reported  by Mr S a number of months after they believed  the works to be 
complete. They said they thought my decision appeared  to take into account what  they 
described as the additional reported damage.  They also asked  me to consider a document  
provided by their suppliers.
Mr S also responded,  directing me again to the original loss adjusters report, submitted to 
the broker in June 2018. He repeated  that he and his partner had had to replace nearly 
everything and to extend their alternative  accommodation. And he said that items that 
remained on site (such as a fridge freezer and cooker)  became filthy because of the builders  
works, and one of the cookers doors is now faulty.  He and his partner had had to dispose  of 
the rubbish left by the builders themselves as well as having their house cleaned before they 
could reoccupy it. He said he and his partner regretted moving  back  into their house when 
they did because  it was still incomplete  in many respects but had done  so because of their 
age and infirmity.
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Ive looked again at the original loss adjusters report submitted by Mr S. And Ive likewise 
considered the document submitted by CIS. And having considered the matter further, 
notwithstanding what I consider to be some  minor discrepancies  and the difficulties caused  
to CIS by lack of access, Im satisfied that, overall,  Mr Ss testimony stands. Because CISs  
points dont change  the fundamental issues of delay  and a great deal of poor workmanship 
so dont affect my view on the amount  Ive awarded for distress and inconvenience.  
Because, ultimately, I believe the problems reported by Mr S in 2020 werent new ones as 
CIS maintains but had essentially remained outstanding throughout. And, as Ive said before, 
I just dont think CIS took the situation  seriously  enough.
So, I havent seen  anything to make me change my mind  and my decision remains the 
same.
Ref: DRN97517828my final decision
So, I think that for the reasons Ive set out above,  my final decision is that CIS:
General Insurance Limited trading  as Co-Operative Insurance should:
compensate Mr S with a further £1,000 for distress and inconvenience arising from 
the delay and poor workmanship.  This means CIS should  pay £1,200 in total, but 
£1,000 if they have  already paid over £200;
hand over the amount they had originally allocated for the tiles, if they havent  done 
so already; and
commission and pay for a surveyor selected  by Mr S from a list of three provided by 
CIS to produce a report on the repairs required by the property,  allowing  Mr S input.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9751782