K820x#14complaint
Miss Ss complaint is about  the amount of compensation Nationwide  Building Society offered 
following a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out by 
Miss S in 1997.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Nationwide got due to the PPI. I am unable to consider how the policy  was sold as Im 
satisfied the complaint wasnt brought in time. Ive only looked at whether the offer 
Nationwide has made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Miss S paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Miss S for the time she was out of pocket.  
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Miss Ss particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. 
But I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been  made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Nationwide to do anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Nationwide Building Society has correctly  worked out what it 
needs to pay Miss S. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  update  and pay its offer to Miss S if it hasnt  done  so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Ref: DRN92582812Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9258281