K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds  trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mrs T took out a mortgage in 2002 and also took out an MPPI policy  that covered her 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.  She arranged  the mortgage and insurance 
in a meeting. Mrs T cancelled the policy in 2003.
Mrs T believes Lloyds mis-sold the policy. She says she would not have taken out the MPPI 
unless it was required by the mortgage  provider. She says either  she had no knowledge of it 
or at best was led to believe it was not optional.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs T doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  for the following reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mrs T was given a choice to have the policy. I have done 
this by considering both parties  recollections  and any documentation provided from the 
sale. 
Mrs Ts recollections about  the meeting in February 2002 are not detailed. This is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed  since the date of sale.  So I 
have needed to look at the sales documentation provided from that time to obtain an 
understanding as to what more likely  happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mrs T was advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect her mortgage repayments, and she took it on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when the separate application  
form was being  completed and signed  by Mrs T, that the MPPI policy was presented on 
this form as an optional  requirement.  On balance, when considering  the information in 
front of me, I am persuaded  Mrs T was given a choice  to have  the MPPI policy.
Ref: DRN97712372Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mrs T, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She says she 
had at least  3 months  sick pay but I think the benefits provided by the policy  would have 
been of use to Mrs T in a time of need. Having the policy in place would mean Mrs T could 
use any provisions  she had to cover other expenses.  I think, on balance, Mrs T would 
have found the cover the policy provided useful for any extended period of unemployment  
or sickness.  I can also see no other  reasons such as a significant or restrictive  term that 
would make  the policy unsuitable either.
I cannot be sure if Mrs T would have  received  the costs of the policy clearly  in the 
meeting but even  if she had received all the information  on this, I dont think  it would 
have changed  her mind  to have the cover  for the reasons that I have already given. The 
MPPI policy was reasonably priced compared to similar policies available  at the time 
and to the monthly repayment. And Mrs T could have cancelled the MPPI if it did 
become unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mrs T wouldve been affected by any of these based on what I have already concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs T, but on balance, I do not uphold her 
complaint for the reasons that I have  given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am 
required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9771237