K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined his claim on his mobile phone 
insurance policy.
background
In June 2018, Mr M made a claim on his mobile  phone insurance policy.  He said his mobile 
phone was stolen  from his villa whilst  he was on holiday abroad.
Great Lakes declined the claim,  relying  on the following exclusion in the policy:
We will not cover the following
9. Any theft of your  mobile phone from any premises, building,  land or vehicle unless force 
resulting in damage to the building,  premises or vehicle was used to gain entry or exit.
They said that as Mr M believed his mobile phone was stolen from his villa, without any 
evidence of a forced  break in the above exclusion applies. Mr M complained  but Great Lakes  
didnt change their decision, so he brought  the complaint to our service. 
In her last view, our investigator explained that she thought Great  Lakes should pay Mr Ms 
claim. She said its for the insurer to show that the exclusion applies,  not for Mr M to prove 
that it doesnt. She felt that considering all the evidence, Mr Ms loss should  be considered 
as theft under the policy, and so Great Lakes should  pay the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue  a decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2019.  This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr Ms mobile phone  insurance provides cover  for theft if his mobile phone  is stolen.  In the 
policy terms, theft is defined as: the unauthorised dishonest appropriation or attempted 
appropriation of the mobile phone  specified  on your certificate schedule, by another person 
with the intention of permanently depriving  you of it.
Mr M told Great Lakes that his phone was stolen  from the villa he was staying in whilst he 
was asleep. He reported the theft to the police,  and has sent us a copy  of the police report, 
which weve  translated into English. Mr M reported the theft the same day he said it took 
place.
In the police report it states access to the property seems to have been obtained through  
the back door, which was not left unlocked, given that, when the complainant  woke  up, bags 
were dispersed throughout the ground  floor and in the back part of the property. 
Considering all the circumstances, Im satisfied this claim  should  have been considered  as a 
theft claim under the policy.
Ref: DRN97121432From what  Ive seen, Great Lakes dont seem  to be disputing  that the mobile phone was 
stolen, rather that the incident is excluded due to the wording  of their policy.  So Great Lakes 
appear to have accepted that an insured event took place. Because  of this, its for Great 
Lakes to show that an exclusion applies here.
The exclusion states that theft isnt covered unless force resulting in damage to the premises 
was used to gain entry or exit. As they havent seen  proof of any damage,  theyve decided 
this exclusion applies. Ive listened  to the call recording of Mr M giving details of his claim to 
Great Lakes.  During this conversation, Mr M said that the front door was locked at night. He 
wasnt asked whether the back  door was locked  at night or not, but confirmed it was open 
and unlocked in the morning when  he discovered the theft had taken place.
It seems  that Great Lakes are relying  on the assumption that Mr M had left the back door 
unlocked at night,  and therefore are assuming there  was no force  used, resulting in damage,  
to gain entry  to the villa. I appreciate that its not entirely clear from the call exactly what 
happened, but Im not satisfied Great Lakes asked enough specific  questions  to clarify things 
 which  I think they should have done.  Mr M was not asked specifically if the back  door was 
left unlocked at night. Given that its for Great Lakes to show  that an exclusion applies here, 
they ought to have  asked  a more specific question to get to the bottom of what  happened.  
The police report was made the same  day as the theft  and so I think  thats  the best record 
of what happened  at the time. That report says the door wasnt unlocked. Force  must have 
been used to gain entry into the property, just turning the handle  and opening  the door would 
be considered  force.  Whilst  theres  no evidence to show that damage was caused, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to decline the claim on that basis alone.  I think a policyholder  
would reasonably expect that the theft of a mobile phone from a locked property would  be 
covered by their insurance policy.
So, considering everything,  its for Great Lakes  to show that an exclusion applies here, and 
Im not satisfied theyve  done that. In any event, taking into account  the particular 
circumstances of whats happened here,  I think it would be fair for Great Lakes  to settle the 
claim in line with the terms of Mr Ms policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Great Lakes  nor Mr M have provided any comments in response  to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  provided any comments that change  my decision.  So for the reasons I 
explained previously, Im satisfied that Great Lakes should settle Mr Ms claim in line with the 
terms of the policy.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle  Mr Ms claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Ref: DRN97121433Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9712143