K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly  declined  a claim 
she made on her home insurance policy. Shes represented by Mr M.
background
Mrs R held home insurance with RSA.  Mr M contacted RSA and said there was a fault with 
the floor in Mrs Rs kitchen. RSA said it needed  to know what was causing  the problem 
before it could assess cover for any claim.
Mr M contacted RSA again  five months later, and said the floor had been damaged. He said 
investigations had established this had been caused  by one or more leaks.  RSA appointed 
an agent to make enquiries  and assess whether the claim should be covered. 
After these were completed, Mrs R was told the claim wouldnt be covered. RSA said the 
damage had been  caused over a long period  of time, but that Mrs R hadnt carried out 
investigations into what was causing  the damage  for several  months after Mr M had initially  
contacted RSA, and after she was aware there was a problem. 
Mr M, on behalf  of Mrs R, complained to RSA. He said that Mrs R had been given no 
indication that the claim  wouldnt be covered when RSAs agent visited her house and 
viewed the damage. He also was unhappy about  the amount of time taken to tell them the 
claim wasnt covered. And he disagreed with RSAs  decision to decline cover for the claim.
When RSA said it wouldnt change its decision, Mr M brought Mrs Rs complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt think RSA had done  anything wrong. She thought that if 
Mrs R had acted on RSAs advice  from the first call, some of the damage could have been 
prevented.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When Mr M wrote to us on Mrs Rs behalf,  he raised  three  different points which Mrs R was 
unhappy about in her dealings with RSA. The first, and main issue,  is obviously that RSA 
declined Mrs Rs claim. Shes also unhappy  about  the amount of time that RSA took to 
inform Mrs R it wouldnt be covering the claim after its agents representative came to her 
house and inspected the damage. Hes also said she was unhappy that the representative 
didnt come to her house when hed arranged to.
Im satisfied from the information  available to me that Mr Ms contact with RSA did suggest 
Mrs R was unhappy about the delay  in her being  told about the decision not to cover  her 
claim. RSA didnt respond to this point in its response to Mrs R. But Im satisfied I can look 
into this part of her complaint. So Ill consider this, and whether RSA acted  fairly  in declining 
Mrs Rs claim.
Ordinarily, we can only consider a complaint, or part of it, where  a financial business has 
already had the opportunity to respond to the complaint. This is relevant here because I cant  
see that Mrs Rs unhappiness about  the missed appointment  was ever the subject of a 
complaint to RSA.  But Ive been in contact  with RSA and its said its happy  for me to 
consider this as part of my decision.
Ref: DRN99296942The decision  to decline the claim
RSA declined the claim because it said the damage  to Mrs Rs kitchen was caused by 
several leaks of water  which had resulted in plaster  and wooden  supports beneath the floor 
rotting. It said that the leaks had been  going  on for a long period of time to cause  this much 
damage.
When it declined  the claim, RSA referred to the terms and conditions set out in Mrs Rs 
policy. These specifically exclude Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes 
including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar  causes.  It said that the 
damage to Mrs Rs kitchen was the result of rot caused by long standing leaks.
RSA also said Mrs R had been  aware  of the leak over six months  before its representative 
attended. It referred to the terms and conditions which say:
1. Notifying  a claim
(a) What you must do
 Notify the police as soon  as possible 
 Phone the number  shown on your Statement  of Insurance as soon as possible.  We will 
send you a claim form which you should fill in and return to us as soon as possible.
 As soon as reasonably  possible after the injury, loss or damage,  provide us with details of 
the claim, including any detailed particulars,  proofs or certificates, or original valuations, 
receipts or proofs of purchases pre-dating the loss, or other documents  that we may 
reasonably require, and estimates for repair or replacement.  We will not pay for this 
information unless  agreed by us in writing.
It's not in dispute that Mr M, on Mrs Rs behalf, did contact  RSA five months before the 
representative visited. When he did that, he said there was a fault with the floor.  When 
RSAs advisor asked what was causing the fault,  he said he didnt know.  But it appears 
Mrs R had mopped up water which had appeared in that area of the kitchen around a month 
earlier. That information  wasnt given to RSA. 
When Mr M said they didnt know what was causing the damage, RSA said that in order to 
consider a claim, it would  need to know the cause. Mr M said theyd arrange to inspect the 
flooring and lift it up, and then contact RSA.
But RSA didnt hear anything further  from Mr M or Mrs R for four months.  By then, Mrs R 
had arranged for the kitchen to be inspected, which had resulted in the leaks being identified 
and the rot discovered. By then the leaks had caused a significant amount of damage. Im 
satisfied the damage  would  have  been less if Mrs R had taken action to identify the cause  of 
the damage, as Mr M had suggested  they would after the first contact with RSA. The leak 
will have continued unabated, and the rot will have spread in that time. From the information 
provided by Mrs R, the condition of the floor appears to have deteriorated in that period as it 
had become noticeably softer under foot. This was what prompted the further investigations  
which were carried out before  Mr R contacted RSA for a second  time.
So I think its reasonable for RSA to be able to rely on the policy condition which require it to 
be informed of a claim  at the earliest opportunity and the exclusion for damage  caused by 
gradually operating  clauses. Im not persuaded that RSA should  be asked to cover  the claim.
Ref: DRN99296943The delay in the decision to decline cover
I can see that over two months elapsed from RSAs agent visiting  Mrs Rs house  and 
inspecting the damage and Mr M, as her representative, being told the claim wasnt covered. 
Im not persuaded there is a reasonable justification for how long this took. From  looking at 
the notes made by RSAs agent,  it appears  that the representative who visited Mrs R was 
aware after their visit that the claim might not be covered. And I can also see that there  was 
contact between the agent  and RSA about whether the claim should be covered. But I cant  
see any reason why it took over two months  for that decision  to be made. No further visits or 
checks were required,  and it would appear that RSA and its agent had enough information 
based on what the representative reported after visiting Mrs Rs house to make  the decision.  
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  RSA made  a fair decision in declining the claim. But it could have  
been done sooner. The effect of the delay was that it left Mrs R, who is elderly, in a position 
where she didnt  know  whether  repairs  to the kitchen would be covered by RSA for over two 
months. The kitchen  was also in a damaged state during that period, with flooring and units  
having been removed prior to the representative  visiting. I think  the impact  of this should  be 
recognised, and given the circumstances, RSA should pay £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this delay.
The missed  appointment
When RSA appointed its agent,  an appointment was made for the agents representative to 
visit Mrs Rs house. I can see she and Mr M were told that the representative would visit on 
a certain date, and would call to confirm the appointment either the day before or on the day 
itself.
But the representative didnt attend on the arranged day. When Mr M contacted  RSAs  agent 
the next day he was told that due to a diary error  the appointment hadnt been confirmed. A 
new date was arranged  for a week  later, when  the representative did visit. 
I think the missed appointment did have an effect on Mrs R. She stayed at home all day and 
was expecting the representative  to attend. And it was then a further week before  the 
representative did actually  attend.  I think the inconvenience caused by having to stay at 
home all day without  any contact from RSAs agent  and then then delay in arranging  a new 
appointment should be recognised. RSA should pay £50 compensation for this.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr M, on behalf  of Mrs R, responded to my provisional decision. They  disagreed with my 
decision that RSA acted fairly when it declined the claim.  They said they didnt think the 
extent of the damage caused would have been  significantly worse between the first time 
Mr M phoned RSA and when the damage  was inspected by RSAs  agent several months 
later.
They argued that RSAs reasons for declining the claim  were  contradictory because it had 
said it couldnt cover the claim because  no action had been taken after the first phone call, 
but also that the leaks had been  causing  damage for a long time.
Ref: DRN99296944Mr M said the reason  no action had been  taken  after the first call was that Mrs R had been 
reluctant to take action because RSA had suggested  a claim wouldnt be covered. They also 
said that Mr M had never mopped the floor of the kitchen,  and that the need to do so would 
never have  arisen.  
In their response to the other points raised,  Mr M and Mrs R said that the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by RSA declining cover  for the claim was much  more than the missed 
appointment and delays  to the decision. They said that she was without an operational 
kitchen for a long period of time, believing that her claim was covered.
RSA said it accepted my provisional decision. It acknowledged it should have realised 
sooner that Mrs R was a vulnerable customer who was without a kitchen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the further arguments  raised  by Mr M on Mrs Rs behalf  following my 
provisional decision. Im not satisfied RSA acted  unfairly when it declined her claim. Ill 
explain why.
I cant agree  with their interpretation of Mr Ms first call to RSA that Mr M was told the claim 
probably wouldnt be covered, and that he was essentially  rebuffed. As Ive said previously, 
when Mr M said he didnt  know what was causing the damage, he was advised to find out 
what was happening and then contact RSA again.  He didnt do so for several months.  I cant  
say that this was RSA saying a claim wasnt covered, just that it needed more information  to 
be able to advise  further. 
Its also not in dispute  that at the time of the first call, there was some  damage being caused 
by a leak. But the issue is that its impossible  to say how much damage had been  caused by 
that point. And by extension, it cant be said what damage occurred  between  the time of the 
first call and it being inspected before the second  call. Mr M argues that the damage caused 
in the 5 month period  would not have been severe, and that the serious damage had been 
caused by that point.  But he doesnt  provide any evidence  to support this. 
I also dont think that RSAs reasons for declining  the claim were  contradictory, as suggested 
by Mr M. When it referred to the policy terms and conditions, it pointed to the exclusion for 
damage caused by rot, and that the claim hadnt  been notified as soon  as it should have 
been. Im satisfied these  should be read together  that the damage caused by rot occurred 
over a long period of time, and that if RSA had been  informed earlier, that damage  caused 
by rot wouldnt necessarily have occurred.  
Mr M says he never mopped the kitchen floor. I dont dispute  this. But my provisional  
decision referred to Mrs R having mopped the floor. This information comes from the report 
completed by RSAs agent when it visited Mrs R at her home. The response to my 
provisional decision doesnt cover whether or not Mrs R had ever mopped up water  in the 
kitchen, or suggest  that she didnt tell RSAs  agent  this. And while  Mr M might  not have  
known about this, I still think it was information  that would have assisted in trying  to 
understand how long the leak had been present for, and how long it had been causing  
damage.
Ref: DRN99296945I do understand that the distress caused  by the claim being declined was significantly more 
than the delays and missed  appointment caused. But I cant  make an award for that distress, 
as Im satisfied RSA acted fairly when it declined the claim. Ive not seen anything new which  
suggests to me that RSA should pay more compensation than I outlined in my provisional  
decision.
my final decision
Its my final decision to partially uphold this complaint. To put things right, I order  
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to pay Mrs R £350 compensation.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs R accept my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9929694