K820x#14Complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund unauthorised transactions on 
his account.
Background
I recently issued my second  provisional decision setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. I concluded that, on balance, it was more 
likely that Mr A had authorised the disputed transactions and that Barclays  was entitled  to 
refuse a refund.  
Ive attached a copy  of my second  provisional  decision. It forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my second provisional decision
Barclays accepted  my second provisional  decision.
Mr A disagreed with my conclusions. He said:
theres no proof he authorised the disputed  transactions  or that his pin was used
the spending was out of character for his account and he doesnt have a history of 
making high value transactions
Barclays doesnt have  any proof  of what  goods or services  were purchased
Barclays lied about the transactions in Romania  and, therefore, its evidence is 
unreliable
he was the victim  of a crime 
his card,  phone and personal details were  stolen 
he might  have been drugged
the Barclaycard  transactions  are irrelevant and theres no proof  he made the call.
This case has now come to me for a final ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid my decision 
remains the same. 
In short,  Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). However,  from what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude  
that Mr A authorised  the disputed  transactions.  The full reasons for my decision are set out 
in my second provisional decision and, as explained, they form part of this decision.
Ref: DRN94861362Im afraid, Ive not seen any evidence from Mr A which has persuaded me to change my 
mind, but I will address his replies to my provisional  decision.
no proof he authorised  the disputed transactions or that his pin was used
Mr As debit  card and pin were used  to make the transactions.  Barclays has provided the 
electronic reports for the transactions. These reports tell me how the transactions were  
made. The reports are not unusual.  We see these reports regularly at this service. However, 
I still had questions about some of the industry  codes,  words and phrases used in the report. 
In response, Barclays explained the codes and the process. I am now satisfied that the 
disputed transactions  were made  by chip and pin. 
A third party  couldnt make these transactions with only his card. Mr A has consistently said 
he didnt keep a written note or record of his pin and he didnt disclose it to anyone  else.  This 
leaves him as the only person who could  have entered the pin. Despite what Mr A says, I 
think this is proof he authorised the transactions.
I also consider that the transfers from company Bs account to his personal account  is proof  
he authorised the disputed  transactions.  I dont believe  that an opportunistic  thief, who had 
stolen his card, would know about  Bs account much less the log in details for Bs online 
banking.
transactions were  out of character
Ive not seen any statements confirming that the transactions were  out of character for Mr A 
but Ive no reason to doubt  what he says.  Im sure the disputed transactions were  unusual 
for his account. This might be persuasive evidence, in his favour, if the evidence linking him 
to the disputed transactions was weak. But I consider  there is compelling evidence  that he 
authorised the transactions.
No proof  of what was bought
Barclays told us that it contacted  the merchants, but they didnt respond.  It seems Explore 
Entertainment ceased trading in April 2019.  It would be a more  complete picture to know 
what the money was spent on, but its not relevant to the issue  of authorisation and doesnt  
affect the evidence linking him to the transactions.
Barclays evidence is unreliable
I agree  the original  investigation by Barclays was unsatisfactory, particularly on the location  
of the transactions, which is why I issued my first provisional decision. Barclays  later 
confirmed that the transactions were  made  in GB. This is consistent with the timings. Its not 
plausible that Mr As card was stolen on the evening  or early  hours  of 12 May and used 
within hours in Romania.  It makes more sense that the card was used in GB. I accept 
Barclays made a mistake,  which influenced  the investigators view,  but I dont  consider  that 
the mistake changes the outcome.
Mr A was the victim of a crime
Mr As version of events  doesnt match the electronic  evidence  of how and when  the 
transactions were  made. And his evidence has changed. He now says his personal details 
Ref: DRN94861363were stolen whereas  previously, it was just his debit card and phone.  And he suggests  he 
might have been drugged. He hasnt mentioned this before.
I accept the transactions are unusual. Its also suspicious  that the merchants didnt respond 
to Barclays, although  I now understand that one of them had ceased trading. I note that 
Barclays suspects that one of the merchants was a gentlemens club. 
Its possible Mr A was duped into making payments, not knowing how much  he was paying  
or to whom.  Im afraid if he made the payments without this information, with false  
information or made them whilst  drunk or drugged, he is still treated as having  authorised  
them under the relevant regulations. However, this isnt what  he says happened. His 
testimony is that his card and phone were stolen.  
Im afraid I dont find Mr As testimony  convincing or plausible. It is contradicted by the 
banks records. Also, all the transactions to the two merchants were funded either  by 
company As Barclaycard  or the online transfers from company Bs account.  I dont  believe 
that an unknown  third party or opportunistic  thief would have known about these accounts or 
had access to the companies  accounts.
On balance, considering all the evidence,  I consider  Mr A authorised  the disputed 
transactions and, therefore, Barclays is entitled  to refuse a refund.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr A, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN94861364Complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund unauthorised  transactions  on his 
account.
Background
Mr A was a former director of two companies, which  Ill call A and B. He left the companies on 22 
February 2018.
On 12 May 2018, money from both companies  was used to fund the disputed transactions. 
Below is a timeline of the activities on 12 May 2018
Timeline for 12 May 2018
Business A Barclaycard issued to Mr A
00:20 £27.75 Dukes Hotel and Bar chip and signature genuine
00:55  £500 cash withdrawal chip and pin genuine
02:26  £2,300.00 Exploring Entertainment  Chip and PIN 
03.45 person  purporting to be Mr A calls the bank to check balance on Barclaycard
03:53   person  purporting to be Mr A calls again to check the balance on his 
Barclaycard.  Credit card limit is increased.
04:01  £1,500.00 Exploring Entertainment chip and pin
Barclay card limit is reached
Mr As Personal Debit Card
04:53 Online Banking  Login
04:53  £5,000.00 transferred from Bs account to Mr As personal account
04:56 £5,069.36 ANDTRANS AGREGATE C1 MARUNTEI  RO declined 
05:04  £4,800.00 EXPLORING ENTERTAINMENEGHARM GB declined 
Bank sent text message to Mr As phone asking if payments genuine.
Confirmation received.
05:27  £4,853.64 ANDTRANS AGREGATE C1 MARUNTEI  RO     chip and pin
05:57 Online Banking  Login
05:57  £10,000.00  transferred from Bs account to Mr As personal account
06:23 £8,628.69 ANDTRANS AGREGATE C3 MARUNTEI  RO    chip and pin 
07:11 Online Banking  Login
07:11 £15,000.00  transferred from Bs account to Mr As personal account
07:21 £10,785.86  ANDTRANS AGREGATE C3 MARUNTEI RO    chip and pin
08:34 Online Banking  Login
08:34 £5,000.00 transferred from Bs account to Mr As personal account
08:37 £6,471.51 ANDTRANS AGREGATE C3 MARUNTEI  RO    chip and pin
09:13  £4,000.00 EXPLORING ENTERTAINMENEGHARM GB    chip and pin
10:11 Online Banking  Login
10:11  £6,000.00 transferred from Bs account to Mr As personal account
10:12 £5,950.00 EXPLORING ENTERTAINMENEGHARM GB     chip and pin
14:34  £24.98 PIZZA  HUT ONLINE WEB  GB (Online) genuine
Later the same day, B called the bank  to report the transfers from its account.
At 15:11, Mr A called to report his debit card as lost. 
Ref: DRN94861365On 17 May 2018, he called to report disputed transactions on the Barclaycard.
Mr A told Barclays that he hadnt authorised the transactions on his personal  account. He said hed 
gone out the night before  i.e. 11 May 2018. He confirmed hed bought drinks  at the hotel  bar. He said 
some people  he didnt know invited  him to a house  party,  so he went. He withdrew £500  cash, but he 
couldnt remember why. He said he lost his card and phone at the party.  He said hed never told 
anyone his PIN and he hadnt written it down. And he said he didnt make any chip and pin 
transactions in the months leading up to these  transactions. 
At the time, Barclays told him that some of the payments were made in Romania. He said hed never  
been to Romania and didnt know  the two businesses. 
He asked Barclays for a refund.
Barclays decided not to refund him. It concluded that hed authorised the transactions  because:
The disputed payments  were chip and pin transactions. This means  his actual card was used 
with his pin.
Mr A said no-one else knew  his pin, he hadnt kept a written note of it and he hadnt disclosed 
it to anyone else,  which  leaves him as the only person  who could have made the transactions.
Whoever made the transfer from Bs account to his personal account,  already knew the log in 
details for the Bs online banking.
It sent a text message  to the phone number registered to Mr As account querying  one of the 
transactions. It received  a response to confirm  the transaction was genuine. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Barclays decision, so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked  into his complaint and decided  to not to uphold it. In summary, he felt unable to 
conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently and he was persuaded they were  most 
likely made  and authorised  by Mr A. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding  the complaint. At the time, I considered  that both parties had 
provided conflicting  evidence.  I wasnt convinced by Mr As version of events. I didnt think he had a 
plausible explanation for how a third party knew his pin.
However, I also considered that Barclays  evidence  fell short of showing hed authorised the 
transactions. In particular,  it said some of the transactions were carried  out in Romania. This was 
picked up by the investigator in his view and strongly refuted by Mr A who said hed never been to 
Romania. However, some transactions were made in GB at roughly the same time.  Mr A couldnt  be 
in two countries at the same  time. 
Barclays also said a PIN sentry device had been used but later withdrew this evidence.
I invited comments  from both parties.
Response to my provisional conclusions
Mr A responded to accept my provisional decision,  but he still had no explanation for how the pin was 
compromised. He simply said that the pin may have  been  stolen when he tried to use the card at 
some point.
Barclays responded with additional evidence  and clearer  explanations for what  happened. I have 
included the new information  in the timeline above. In addition, it explained  that:
Mr As debit card was not used in Romania, as suggested in previous correspondence and 
the investigators view. Barclays believes the merchant might have a base in GB. The 
Ref: DRN94861366payment was made in Romanian  currency, but Barclays explained this was possible with the 
type of terminal  which was used.
Mr A used two cards on 12 May 2018. At the start of his night out he used the Barclaycard for 
As business account, which was issued to him. Barclays observed that when the limit was 
reached his debit card was used.
His card was used only after the online  log ins and transfers.
On 11 May 2018,  the balance in his account was £10.19.
He accessed Bs online banking via the forgotten password route.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint, including the additional  evidence from Barclays.
In short, Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment  Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs  2017). Mr A says he 
didnt make the disputed payments, or the transfers, and is seeking  a refund of the payments. So, my 
primary concern  is to come  to a view about  whether I think he authorised  the transactions. 
Having reviewed  the banks technical reports, Im satisfied Mr As genuine card and PIN were used in 
order for the disputed transactions to take place. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable  for Barclays to conclude that Mr A authorised the 
disputed transactions. Despite  what hes said, Im not persuaded his card and phone were stolen on 
the night or that the transactions  were  made by a third party. This is because:-
the disputed payments were chip and pin payments. Even if someone stole  his card,  they 
wouldnt have known his pin. On his own admission,  Mr A said he didnt  keep a written  note of 
his PIN and only he knew it. He hadnt used  his card earlier in the night so there was no 
opportunity for someone to shoulder  surf him or steal it. This leaves him as the only person 
who could have made  the disputed payments.
There were  no balance inquiries which  suggests the person already knew the balance and 
that it was low.
The pin was entered correctly first time.
The person knew the log in details for Bs online banking. Although Barclays said it was 
accessed via the forgotten password route, the person still needed to know  the debit  card 
details and, importantly Mr As date of birth. He said only his cards were  stolen, not his wallet  
or any other information with his date of birth.
The person needed  to know  a business account  existed.  I dont believe  an opportunistic thief 
would know this information.
Barclays sent a text message to the number it held for Mr A. It received  a reply confirming 
that the transactions were genuine.
Mr A said his phone was stolen but it had a lock on it and could only be unlocked with a 4-
digit code which only he knew.
There is a distinct pattern. The card is only used after a log in and transfer.
There was a genuine  transaction to Pizza Hut the next day. Barclays said theres no evidence 
hed made  payments  to Pizza Hut so its unlikely he had an account. This suggests he still 
had his card with him. 
Mr A told this service he lost his card and phone at the party.  He told Barclays  he lost both at 
8pm the previous night.
If an opportunistic thief had gained access to Bs online account, I dont  think they would  risk 
making transfers into his account if they could spend  directly from it. 
Ref: DRN94861367The Barclay  card transactions  are not part of this complaint. However, I note that someone who 
claimed to be Mr A called Barclays to check the balance on that account. The person  successfully 
passed all the security  checks.  Again, its unlikely  an opportunistic thief would know the answers  to 
the questions. 
On balance, considering all the evidence, I think Mr A authorised the disputed  transactions and 
therefore Barclays is entitled  to refuse a refund.
My final decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my 
decision before 15 August  2020.
Ref: DRN9486136