K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Stagemount Limited  (trading as QuidMarket)  lent irresponsibly to him. 
background
Between October 2017 and September  2018, Mr M took out four loans with QuidMarket. His 
borrowing history is as follows:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 31/10/2017 28/11/2017 3 £350.00 £176.86
2 10/05/2018 29/06/2018 2 £300.00 £193.41
3 29/06/2018 31/08/2018 2 £350.00 £244.04
4 03/09/2018 23/11/2018 5 £300.00 £107.46
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with that view. 
He thought that if our adjudicator had fully considered his credit report, loans 2, 3 and 4 
would have been upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuidMarket needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuidMarket should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN90023022There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuidMarket was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. As Mr M agrees that loan 1 shouldnt 
be upheld, Ive further considered loans 2 to 4 only.  
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, it would have been reasonable for 
QuidMarket to rely on the information that Mr M provided. I would also expect it to take 
account of the credit  reports it obtained when it was considering Mr Ms applications. 
For loan 2, Mr M applied for £300  to be repaid over two months. He declared  his monthly 
income to be £2,000  and his expenditure to be in the region  of £600. The credit report  
indicated that Mr Ms outgoings  were  actually higher than he had declared. But when making  
its lending decision,  QuidMarket took account  of the discrepancy and amended  his 
expenditure figure. It calculated his disposable income to be £1,380.  
Ive been provided  with a copy of the credit report obtained by QuidMarket at that time. On 
considering that document, I can see that Mr M had only three active  credit accounts, one of 
which had been  opened in the preceding six months. No adverse credit  information was 
recorded. 
On that basis, I think the checks  QuidMarket  did in finding out about Mr Ms income, 
expenditure and credit  history were proportionate. Where the information provided  by Mr M 
was inconsistent with the information recorded  on the credit file, I can see that the 
underwriter made an appropriate adjustment. Based upon  the information  the lender had at 
the time,  the loan repayments would  have reasonably appeared sustainably  affordable.  
When Mr M applied for loan 3, he said that his income had decreased  to £1,800 per month. 
His declared total expenditure had also increased  slightly, including £100 credit 
commitments. I can see that this loan was also applied for on the same  day as Mr M repaid 
loan 2. 
At that stage, I would have expected QuidMarket to be alert to the possibility that Mr M may 
have been experiencing  financial problems. However, in the circumstances, I think its 
response was proportionate. It ran another credit check, which  again showed  that his 
expenditure was higher than declared  and it made further adjustments  to estimate  Mr Ms 
actual disposable  income. 
Ref: DRN90023023Looking at the credit report, by now I can see that Mr M now had seven active credit  
accounts, of which five had been  opened  in the preceding six months. However, compared 
to his monthly income, the total outstanding  balance  did not appear  to be significant. And I 
note again that no adverse credit information had been recorded  on the account. 
I can see that QuickMarket  also questioned why Mr M had borrowed further  on the same day 
as he repaid a previous loan to which he replied that he needed funds  for a course. He 
denied having  financial difficulties. Overall, I think the checks  QuidMarket did at that stage 
were proportionate and upon  considering  the information it obtained in respect of loan 3, the 
loan repayments  would  have appeared affordable at the relevant time. 
By loan 4, Mr M declared his income to be the same  as at loan 3 and that his expenditure 
had increased  slightly.  Again,  QuidMarket made  adjustments when his declared disposable 
income differed  from that revealed  on the credit report. Again, I havent seen anything  on the 
credit report  obtained  by QuidMarket that would have reasonably caused it to conduct further 
checks or conclude that the loan repayments  were unsustainable. 
I appreciate Mr M said that he had several  payday  loans  running at the same time. The 
credit report  indicated he did have  other  loans, but the repayments  still appeared  to be 
affordable. 
Mr M said that his bank statements would have shown he was having financial difficulties. 
Ive been provided  with a copy of those statements and I agree that the statements could 
have given a different  picture. But as I said above,  at such an early stage in the lending  
relationship, I wouldnt  expect QuidMarket to undertake  a full review of Mr Ms financial 
circumstances. It wasnt  proportionate  for it to request his bank  statements at that time. 
In summary,  the action  QuidMarket undertook in assessing Mr Ms income  and expenditure 
and running a credit check  before deciding whether to lend amounted to a proportionate  
check. Following those checks, the loan repayment reasonably appeared to be sustainably 
affordable.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons above, it follows that I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Stagemount Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9002302