K820x#14Complaint
Mr B feels  HSBC  UK Bank Plc (trading  as First Direct) didnt do enough to protect his funds 
when he was scammed.
Background
On 22 January 2018, Mr B authorised an online payment of £1,668  to who he thought  was 
his builder. When he received a second e-mail  from his builder requesting  the same 
payment, he realised that his builders email account had been hacked and hed sent the 
£1,668 to a scammer. Mr B contacted First Direct  on 26 January 2018 to report  the scam. 
They contacted the beneficiary bank the same  day but unfortunately none  of Mr Bs funds 
remained. 
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr B complained to us. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think  First Direct ought to have done 
more to identify  the payment as potentially  fraudulent in the circumstances. And they felt 
First Direct  had done enough to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and specifically felt First Direct should 
have cross-checked  the name given to make  the transfer and the name on the beneficiary 
account as these would not have matched. He also felt that new regulations  for authorised 
payments should  also apply  to his payment. As an informal  agreement couldnt be reached,  
the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like First Direct  are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN93467612And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether First Direct acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mr B when he transferred the payment of £1,668 , or whether it should have done more  
than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr B fell victim  to this scam and lost his money. But, having  looked 
at the circumstances, I do think First Direct  acted  fairly and reasonably  in allowing the money  
to leave Mr Bs account. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from 
the beneficiary bank.  So, I dont believe it needs  to reimburse Mr B with the money  he lost. 
Ill explain  why in more  detail.
Mr B and First Direct both agree that Mr B authorised the payment himself.  Because of this, 
First Direct  had an obligation to follow Mr Bs instruction. But as explained  above,  there  are 
some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer. From what Ive seen, there wasnt  anything remarkable about  the 
payment in question  in terms of either  its value  or payment  type that ought to have  alerted 
First Direct  that it was part of a scam.  So, I think the fact that First Directs systems didnt 
flag the payment  as suspicious  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B has said he was asked to provide the account number, sort code and name of the 
beneficiary account holder when making the transfer, but that the name of the beneficiary 
wasnt cross-checked. He feels this was a failing  on the part of First Direct.  I can understand 
Mr Bs point  of view here. Unfortunately, at the time that the transfer was requested, it wasnt 
a requirement for First Direct to cross-check the name on an account when making a 
payment. And it also wasnt considered good  industry practice at the time. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions for Mr Bs account  and I can see it says they will only use the account 
number and sort code  to make a payment, even if theyve also asked for other information 
Ref: DRN93467613such as the name of the account  holder.  So, I do think  First Direct made it clear they 
wouldnt also cross-reference the account name, and I think theyve acted reasonably  in only 
using the account number  and sort code  to make the payment
Mr B contacted First Direct on 26 January 2018,  a few days  after the scam payment was 
authorised. First Direct raised a scam complaint  and contacted  the beneficiary bank 
immediately to request  a return of the funds.  Unfortunately,  the beneficiary bank confirmed 
that no funds remained.  Ive seen  evidence that shows all of Mr Bs funds were removed 
from the account by 23 January and before he notified First Direct of the scam. So, I think 
First Direct  did all it could in the circumstances to try and recover Mr Bs funds. 
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
accounts werent the responsibility of First Direct, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary banks to try and retrieve the money was all 
First Direct  could  do to help Mr B at that stage.
While I appreciate Mr B has been  the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think First Directs 
decision not to refund him in this instance  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I say 
this because it followed Mr Bs instruction to make the payment and I havent seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And I think it took appropriate steps to try and 
recover the funds  once it was notified  of the scam. I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy new 
regulations dont apply to this payment. But unfortunately they arent retrospective and Ive 
assessed this case based on relevant industry  practice at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346761