K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of a company  MB.  He says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc will not 
refund some  disputed  transactions.   Mr M is helped in his complaint by a representative,  but 
for ease,  I will refer to all submissions as if made by Mr M directly.
background
In October  2017, four transactions  debited  Mr Ms account.  Three  others were attempted  
but declined  but all seven transactions were  made  in favour of the same establishment.
The establishment  was a bar which  Mr M had visited whilst he was abroad.   He said he had 
been at the bar earlier in the evening, had purchased one drink and then left some time later.  
He said he had not made any of the seven  transactions  and neither had he authorised the 
four successful ones.
Bank of Ireland  did not uphold his complaint.   In its final response letter, it told Mr M that as 
all the transactions  had been made using Mr Ms genuine card and correct PIN number, it 
would not be refunding  the money.
It told this service that it was alerted to the transactions being made that day on Mr Ms 
account  but that the alert from the card providers system was not received  until 
approximately 15 minutes after the last transaction  had been made.  Bank  of Ireland said it 
sent Mr M a text message asking if he recognised three of the transactions attempted.   It 
received no response  to that message  so upon a further review of the account the 
following day, it decided  to block Mr Ms card.
The reason  why the three transactions had been declined was simply that there  were  
insufficient funds  in the account to allow them to go through.
Mr M did not agree with the response from Bank  of Ireland  so he asked this service to 
review his complaint.  He told us that he wanted  to be reimbursed in full as he had not 
authorised the transactions and he wanted  to know why the banks security  protocols had 
not been triggered by such unusual activity.  He also wanted to be reassured that the bank 
had taken steps to ensure such a situation did not happen again.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint for him but did not think  he could ask Bank  of 
Ireland to do anymore.   So, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Bank of Ireland to do anymore here.  My reasons are very much  the same  as the 
adjudicator and I think there is very little I can add.
Generally speaking, the relevant rules  say that unless  a customer  has authorised the 
transactions, a bank  cannot hold them responsible. Evidence of authorisation is not just 
evidence that the original  card and PIN were used.  The customer  needs  to have consented 
to the transactions also.
Ref: DRN90531882So, from the evidence  I have seen, I am satisfied that Mr Ms original card and PIN were 
used.  I am also satisfied that he consented  to the transactions for the following reasons:
-there is no evidence  of any form of cyber-crime  here as is being suggested;
-on Mr Ms account, there is no evidence of a PIN compromise  and there were no 
incorrect attempts regarding the PIN;
-Mr Ms account of the time he spent at the bar is not consistent with the card usage  
and as Mr M still had the card in his possession the next morning, it is more  than 
likely that he was in the bar for longer than he is suggesting;
-despite not being able to use the card the next day, Mr M does not query this with the 
bank until he returned to the UK  suggesting  that its more  likely he knew  the card 
had reached its credit  limit;
With regards Mr Ms submissions that these transactions should  have  alerted Bank of 
Ireland as being suspicious  they did. Unfortunately, the alert came through  after all the 
transactions had been made   but Mr M denies receiving the text message alert in any 
event. Based on what I have seen,  I am satisfied that the message was sent to the same 
number that this service  has on file for Mr M.
I can see why Mr M raises  the issue of unusual  activity   but in the circumstances of this 
particular case,  I dont think the alerts  would have made any difference.
So, I cannot see anything  to suggest  that Bank  of Ireland has been unfair or unreasonable  in 
holding Mr M responsible for these transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9053188