K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Ms E payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999, 
and then again with further advances in 2002 and 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Ms E and her representatives. However, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
I think Lloyds made  clear that Ms E had a choice about  taking  PPI, even though  she may 
not now remember this so many years  later. Ive seen the application forms, and these 
do suggest there was a choice, and the evidence is that Ms E actively  indicated  she 
wanted to take PPI. 
Overall, without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Lloyds acted 
wrongly in this respect.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms E, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits if Ms E couldnt  work due 
to sickness, at the same  time and potentially for longer than her employer sick pay. It 
would also have  paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when  she would need to fall back on any savings she may 
have had. This all would have put Ms E in a more secure position,  if she eventually  lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Ms E took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Ms E would  have  been affected by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN96258302Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9625830