K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) was irresponsible in its 
lending to her. 
background
Miss D took out 22 loans  with QuickQuid between August  2011  and February  2014.  She 
withdrew her complaint  in regard to the loans that were more  than six years old at the time 
the complaint  was raised.
Miss D says that the loans provided by QuickQuid were unaffordable  and that she had to 
borrow in order to make her repayments  and pay her living costs. She says that QuickQuid 
should have realised she couldnt afford the loans given how many times she borrowed. 
QuickQuid says that Miss D informed  it of her financial difficulties in March 2014 after which  
no further loans  were provided.  It says that affordability checks were carried out before the 
loans were provided but accepted that a pattern of dependency emerged in regard to certain  
loans. It upheld Miss Ds complaint in regard to five loans (loans five, six and loans 22-22).
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in regard to loans five to 22. He said that by the time 
the fifth loan was provided Miss D had taken  out four loans of which  three had incurred late 
fee charges and that she had needed  to extend the loans. He also noted that the amount  
borrowed had increased significantly and that the repayment due on loan five was for a 
substantial amount compared to Miss Ds income.  
Our adjudicator said that loans six to 22 were  for similar amounts as loan five and the 
repayment amounts  were  substantial compared  to Miss Ds income.  He thought  the pattern 
of lending and other information showed loans five to 22 were sustainable. He noted that a 
previous offer had been made in regard to some of the loans  but recommended that this 
complaint be upheld for loan five onwards.
QuickQuid responded  to our adjudicators view saying Miss D had a sound  repayment 
history that included only two late fees and that she repaid a number of her loans early. It 
didnt accept that the number of loans alone  showed they were unsustainable. It re-extended 
its previous offer to uphold loans five, six and loans 22-22.
Miss D didnt accept QuickQuids offer and so this case has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, for a decision. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Miss D was provided with 22 loans  by QuickQuid however some of these were provided  
more than six years before her complaint was raised. Miss D withdrew her complaint in 
regard to loans  that were  more than six years old and so this decision relates to loans five to 
22. These loans were  taken out between  September 2012 to February  2014
Ref: DRN91358202QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
When the loans  were taken out the relevant guidance was provided by the Office  of Fair 
trading (OFT). This set out the need to make a reasonable assessment of whether a 
borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues  such  
as being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the 
agreement and without  having to realise  security or assets. It then further  sets out that 
without undue difficulty means without having  to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
By the time Miss D took out her fifth loan she had already  taken out four loans in less than a 
year. She had incurred late fees on three of the loans and had needed to request 
extensions. 
By loan five Miss Ds overall pattern of borrowing suggested they had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. The amount she had borrowed  had increased  from £200 for the 
first loan to £1,250  by the fifth loan. She then continued to borrow amounts of £1,200  or over 
for the rest of the borrowing  relationship  with QuickQuid. In my view,  the pattern of lending 
itself shows that the loans  from loan five were unsustainable. I also note that the repayments 
Miss D needed to make were substantial compared  to her income and that the loans were 
taken out as soon as previous loans  were repaid.
Overall, I think that Miss D lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from 
loan five onwards.  These loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit  intended for short term use over an extended period of 
Ref: DRN91358203time. The sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss D's 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Given the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint in regard to loans five onwards.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five onwards. CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  should:
refund  all interest and charges that Miss D paid on loans five to 22;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan five means  any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans five to 22 should be removed from Miss D's 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss D a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9135820