K822xcomplaint
Mr E and Miss M complain about  the failure of Herts  Insurance  Consultants Ltd to advise 
them that the provider of Miss Ms motor insurance  policy had gone into liquidation.
background 
Miss M bought the policy in February  2018. On 30 January 2019 she reported an accident  to 
Herts. It said a claims handler would contact her. The next day a firm acting on behalf of her 
insurer contacted  Miss M. It took details of the claim but said it couldnt be processed  until 
further notice. It said the insurer  had gone  into liquidation and that all brokers had been told 
about it on 10 January  2019. Miss M and Mr E were left with a car they couldnt  drive. It 
couldnt be sent to a garage for repair, and they had no courtesy car either.
Herts told Mr E that it had decided to contact all clients affected  by the liquidation 
individually. Miss E was told the same in a later call. She was also told that the insurers  
liquidator had sent a message to all its customers.  Miss M said she hadnt got it. She 
wondered if it had been sent to her through Herts.  Both Mr E and Miss M told Herts that had 
they been informed about the liquidation  earlier, they would have changed insurer  at that 
point to avoid  any possible  problems resulting from it.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint made by Miss M and Mr E. She noted that 
the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS)  told brokers  they should notify all 
those affected  by the liquidation by late March 2019.  She thought it was reasonable that 
Herts decided to contact  each of its customers directly before that date, to avoid panicked 
calls. She thought any impact from that decision was likely to be minimal. She said Miss M 
and Mr E remained insured. And she thought it likely  they would  have left the cover  in place 
faced with the option to cancel. She said the delays theyd faced werent due to Herts error. 
Mr E said Herts decision had a major impact on him and Miss M. He said they would have 
cancelled the policy given the option,  because they thought if the insurers assets  were  
frozen, it would cause delays in the event of a claim.  He queried whether the liquidators 
letter had been sent to them through Herts, as Miss E had done earlier.  And he thought the 
fact that the delay in handling the claim was outside Herts control wasnt  relevant. He said it 
could have been avoided if Herts had told them about the liquidation.     
The investigator said she thought it was unlikely  that Herts  would have  realised claims would 
be delayed by the liquidation. And she said Herts  did what  it was asked to do by the FSCS.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint as follows:
Herts says it knew from a statement made by the FSCS  on 11 January  2019 that the 
insurers liquidator had already contacted all the insurers policy  holders about  the situation.  I 
havent seen a copy of the liquidators  letter. But presumably it would  have been  limited to 
setting out how the liquidation was likely to affect  policy holders. So I think  that letter  in itself 
would probably  have prompted  calls to Herts  panicked or otherwise.  
Miss M and Mr E didnt  get the liquidators letter, and I think  its quite possible that other  
policy holders didnt. Either way, I think Herts should  have sent an initial letter to all its 
affected clients. First of all, that would  have ensured that they were  all aware of the situation. 
Secondly, it would  have  allowed Herts to set out its own role in dealing  with the situation. 
Ref: DRN90954732We asked Herts about the liquidators  letter, but it didnt respond  directly to our queries. I 
assume it doesnt have  a copy  of it and that the letters went directly  to policy holders. I dont 
think Herts should have  relied on whatever it was that the liquidator said. I think Herts role 
as a broker offering  a service to its clients meant it had a duty to inform them about issues  of 
concern. I think part of its service role was to deal with any queries as best it could and to 
offer help  such as processing cancellations  and finding alternative policies on request.
In my view, not making an initial statement may have meant that a number of Herts clients 
werent aware of the liquidation for some time. Herts told Miss M during a call that it had 
thousands of policy holders to contact. That was bound to take a long time if done on an 
individual basis. Many policy holders may not have  been affected  but some  of them were 
bound to have  to make a claim  on their policies. So I think it was all the more important that 
an initial message  should have been  sent to all policy  holders as quickly as possible.  
In my opinion, it should have been clear to Herts  that there  may well be consequences for 
policy holders after the liquidation  should they have to make a claim. I think the point Mr E 
made about the insurers frozen assets  leading to delays is a valid one. I think  policy  holders 
should have been given  the option  early  on to decide whether they wanted to retain or 
cancel a policy that would not assist them in the short term.
We asked Herts about the guidance it got from the FSCS.  It provided  a link to the FSCS 
website. I accept that the FSCS said brokers should  contact  all the insurers  policy holders 
by late March 2019. The insurers policies were only valid up to that point, so policy  holders 
had to find other cover. But theres  nothing  to show that the FSCS advised Herts  to contact 
its clients in the way it did. As far as I can see, it was Herts that made  that decision.   
The damaged car couldnt be repaired for months as the insurers  assets  were  frozen.  
Miss M and Mr E say it was very hard for them to manage with one car. Thats  why they had 
paid extra for a guaranteed courtesy car should  their own car be off the road. But that wasnt 
available either.  And in June 2019  they were distressed to get a letter from the solicitors  
acting for the insurer of the other driver  in the accident. The solicitors  said they awaited 
confirmation from the previous insurer that Miss M and Mr E would be indemnified. They  
threatened legal  action  if a payment of around £4,000  wasnt  made within  14 days.  I know  
cover was in place for the accident, but I think this shows that the effect  of the liquidation  
dragged on for Miss M and Mr E for months.    
I think Herts had a duty to do its best for all its affected clients  by providing the best service  it 
could. I think its decision to stagger notification left Miss M and Mr E in a vulnerable  position.  
That may not have  mattered if they hadnt had an accident, but they did. I dont think the fact 
that Miss M wouldnt have  got a refund on her policy had she cancelled  it would have  made 
a difference, as Herts  has suggested.  It only had a few weeks left to run. I dont  think  she 
and Mr E would  have thought the small loss of premium outweighed the potential risk 
involved in not cancelling  the policy.
I agree  that any delay  in paying the claim wasnt Herts fault. And I appreciate  that it thought 
it was doing the best for its clients by acting in the way it did. But I think Herts caused  Miss M 
and Mr E a good deal of avoidable  stress and inconvenience. I think that flowed from the 
way it decided to inform them of the liquidation, which in my opinion was poor service.  So I 
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Herts  to pay them £300 compensation.   
Ref: DRN90954733I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Herts accepted them.  Miss M and 
Mr E didnt comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Herts accepted my provisional decision and Miss M and Mr E didnt comment, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Herts Insurance Consultants  
Limited to pay Miss M and Mr E £300 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9095473