K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) has unfairly reduced 
his no claims discount  (NCD)  for his motor  insurance policy  and threatened to charge higher 
premiums, following his report  of an incident  he didnt claim for. 
background
Mr S said he was involved in a minor incident  which he reported  to LV as required. He said 
his unattended car rolled into another car when his brake failed. He estimated the damage to 
his car at about  £400 and said he didnt expect  to make a claim. He said the damage to the 
other car was also minor,  but that car wasnt in good condition and had some pre-existing  
damage. 
Mr S said that LVs agent told him he would lose his NCD, or it would be reduced,  and his 
insurance premium would rise because he reported an "at-fault incident". He said the agent 
couldnt explain why his NCD would be affected when  he hadnt made a claim.  He said LV 
contacted the other driver which  seemed  to him like encouraging a claim.
LV said following a fault incident, it would always try and contact  the other party  in order to 
try and control the costs. LV said Mr Ss NCD was affected as from experience it is highly 
likely to receive a claim from the other driver. It said if no claim is received then the NCD is 
restored, but said the other driver made  a claim the day after Mr S notified  it of the incident.
Mr Ss policy  states that he must report any incident and LV are entitled to "have control to 
conduct, defend and settle any claim" on his behalf.
The investigator said Mr Ss policy states  that a NCD will reduce if a claim is made  and that 
premiums may increase. He said LVs agent should  have explained the process  more  
clearly, but LV had then told Mr S that the other  party  to the incident had said they would be 
making a claim against him. He said LV had treated Mr Ss NCD and premiums properly. 
Mr S said LV had no right to affect  his insurance  contract when no claim has been made just 
because it believed  that a claim would follow. Once he was made aware  of the claim,  he 
said LV hadnt  provided proper information  or handled his complaint properly. He requested 
an ombudsman to review  these points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked carefully at LVs handling and 
decisions about Mr Ss motor insurance  policy to see if it acted in accordance with the terms 
of the policy  and to see if it has treated him fairly.
Mr S was unhappy that LV treated  his notification as a claim and contacted  the other party  to 
the incident. He said as hed not made a claim there was no justification for LV to treat his 
NCD and premium differently. Ive listened to Mr Ss call and its clear he was reporting  an 
incident rather than making a claim.  LVs agent  told Mr S his NCD would only be affected if 
the other party made a claim,  but that his future  premium is likely to be affected in any event.
Mr Ss policy  requires  him to give LV, full details of any accident as soon as possible, and 
he did this. Insurers keep  records  of claims as well as incidents classified as notification  
Ref: DRN93820782only. Both of these can affect  a policyholders  NCD until its clear  no claim is going to be 
made by either party. Ultimately, a NCD will only be affected if there has been  a claim. 
When an insurer receives notification of an incident which  is the fault of their policyholder,  
they expect a claim to follow and notifications can affect future premiums. Some  insurers  will 
then reduce a NCD in anticipation of a claim and reassess a premium  at renewal, or while 
liability for a claim is being determined.  Our service considers that a NCD should  only be 
affected once  a claim is received by the insurer. Mr Ss policy sets out what LV will do: 
If a claim is still outstanding at the renewal date, we may issue a renewal quotation  with the 
NCD reduced. Once the claim has been  settled and weve agreed that youre not at fault and 
all outstanding monies repaid, your NCD will be restored  and well refund any extra premium 
you may have paid. However, whilst  your NCD will be restored, your premium  may still 
increase following a claim even if you were  not at fault.
This means  Mr Ss NCD would have been re-set  if no claim had been  made.  In Mr Ss case 
the other party reported an intention  to formally claim  to LV the day after his notification of 
the incident and before any contact from LV. Unfortunately, Mr S didnt know the other party 
had claimed against his policy until two weeks later when LV emailed him, though the impact  
on his NCD and premium  wasnt  affected by this delay.  
Although Mr S said the information in LVs email was incorrect,  I think  its message is clear:  
We have been  contacted  by the other drivers insurers in this case and are currently awaiting 
for them to formally submit their claim. 
Having looked  at the communications  I think LV could  have better  explained its methodology 
to Mr S at the start. But I don't think this has caused  Mr S much  inconvenience as I don't  
think this has had any effect on his policy. I havent seen that LV has done anything  wrong  in 
its handling of Mr Ss notification and the other partys claim. I think that LV has treated  Mr S 
fairly and so I dont  require it to take any actions  in respect of his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9382078