K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that TSB Bank  Plc was irresponsible  when it provided him with a fixed  sum 
loan in 2016. He wants the remaining balance of the loan to be written  off.
background
Mr E is represented in this complaint by Mrs S, a money advisor,  from Mr Es local authority.
For ease of reading Ill largely refer to Mr E. 
Mr E says that in July 2016 he was provided with a fixed  sum loan of £10,000 by TSB. He 
says that at the time he wasnt working and had no income. So he couldnt afford to repay  
the loan. He doesnt feel sufficient affordability checks were  carried  out. He further complains 
that TSB failed to respond to requests  from his representative to make  alternative 
arrangements for the repayment of the loan.
TSB told us that Mr E had informed it that at the time of the application he was self employed 
with an income of £40,000  per year. It said he was a long-standing  customer with a good 
credit rating. And it said it had carried out checks which  indicated  he could afford the 
repayments. TSB told us it hadnt  received the initial letters  from Mr Es representative but 
had subsequently engaged with her.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 January 2020 in which I said I 
intended to uphold the complaint but only in part. I said I intended to award £200 to Mr E for 
distress and inconvenience arising  from the delay in registering  his representative.  Both 
parties have replied and agreed to my provisional decision. I thank them for their replies and 
in view of their acceptance of the provisional  decision  I shall repeat it in my final decision 
which is set out blow.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint comprises of two main elements. Firstly in relation to the granting of the loan 
which Mr E alleges was made irresponsibly and without adequate checks. And latterly about 
the way in which TSB has dealt with Mr E after he notified it that he was in financial 
difficulties.
I think its fair to say that all the problems which have arisen during this complaint can be 
traced back to Mr Es original application for this loan in July 2016.  Unfortunately,  its clear 
he didnt provide TSB with accurate information  about his income. His application form 
indicates he stated  that hed an income  of £40,000  per year from self employment. The true 
position was that he was registered with an agency  but at the time wasnt  receiving any 
work.
Ref: DRN93162122Before granting a loan a business is expected to make checks  which  are adequate and 
proportionate. Mr E was a long-standing customer of TSB and its predecessor. The loan was 
for five years  with monthly repayments of around £190. TSBs internal checks indicated hed 
its highest credit rating and a check of the cash flow through his account didnt suggest any
financial problems. TSB had no reason to think Mr E would provide it with inaccurate 
information and I dont think the loan was made  irresponsibly. Taking into account the 
relatively modest level of repayments in relation to declared income  I think the checks  which 
TSB carried out were  adequate and proportionate.
So far as affordability  is concerned its my understanding that Mr E had received a recent 
inheritance and had purchased his home outright. TSB notes record  the purpose  of the loan 
was for home improvements  including a new bathroom.
His bank statements following the loan indicate a level of discretionary spending more than 
sufficient to cover repayments. And as I understand it repayments were maintained until 
December 2018.  So I dont think theres sufficient  information to show the loan was 
unaffordable at the time it was made.
Where I feel TSB could and should have done better  is in responding to Mr Es indications  
that he was in financial difficulty and that he wished it to deal with his representative  to try to 
sort things  out. Our adjudicator, in her second  view, set out a timeline of events which I 
shant repeat as the parties are aware of this.
In summary,  this shows Mr E contacted  TSB in January  2018  and advised he was in 
financial difficulties. This was followed up by Mrs S writing  to TSB on 1 February 2018. Shes 
subsequently provided a record  of attempted contacts over the ensuing months. Im aware 
TSB says it didnt receive the original correspondence and that it was dealing with a high 
volume of other issues at the time. But it took until September 2018 for the complaint to be 
formally logged and it wasnt until March 2019 that Mrs S was formally registered as Mr Es 
representative. TSB has also accepted that some  correspondence it did receive wasnt dealt 
with as it shouldve  been. The net result was that arrangements between TSB and Mr Es 
representative as to how to resolve the account difficulties were delayed.
Although Mr E has asked  for a refund of interest  and charges from the 1st February  2018 - 
the date of Mrs Ss first letter - I dont think this would  be fair and reasonable. Despite the 
delays in communications,  Mr E maintained payments on the account  until December 2018 
when it seems he was advised  to cancel direct debits as hed fallen into arrears with utility  
bills and other priority debts. And whilst a business  is required to treat a customer fairly and 
show forbearance its not required to freeze interest and charges. As far as Im aware Mr E 
had started to work again from March 2018. And bank  statements from the end of 2018 into 
2019 again show significant  discretionary spending. So I shant be asking TSB to refund or 
waive charges.
After Mr Es representative was registered  there  were attempts made  at setting  up a 
payment arrangement.  From what I can see these were also subject to delays but this wasnt 
due to TSB.  And eventually an offer was made on 19 July 2019. It seems  that TSB required 
clarification of certain aspects of this offer but before that clarification  was received the 
account was passed back to collections and defaulted.
Ref: DRN93162123Although I accept that the circumstances in which the default  was implemented  was 
probably not ideal - in that negotiations about a payment plan were still ongoing - Im not 
sure this made any actual  difference.  Wed usually expect an account to be defaulted when 
arrears total between three and six months payments. In June 2019 the arrears on Mr Es 
account amounted  to over £900. And as Mr Es payment offer was below the contractual  
amount - even without  arrears - there was no obligation on TSB to accept it. Its also the 
case that by defaulting the account  the effect was to freeze  further interest payments so that 
any payments made by Mr E would go directly  to reducing his debt. So I shant  require TSB 
to return the account  from collections or remove the default.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but only in 
part.
I require TSB Bank plc to pay £200  to Mr E for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9316212