K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited will not allow him to cash in his annuity 
in exchange for a lump sum. He would like to do this because of ill health. 
background
Mr Ns annuity has been in force since 2004.  It was originally  taken  out with London  Life and 
then transferred to Phoenix. Because  of health concerns, in 2018  Mr N contacted Phoenix 
about cashing-in his annuity in exchange  for a lump  sum.  
Phoenix did not agree to cash-in  the annuity.  It said its policy was generally not to allow this. 
It said the annuity was set up on the basis that it would be payable for the rest of Mr Ns life 
and not cashed-in.  
Mr N then referred his complaint to this service  and it was considered by an investigator.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint.  He said that it was Phoenixs policy not to 
allow the annuity to be cashed-in  and it was entitled to make that decision. He also said that 
the transfer of the London Life annuity to Phoenix  in 2012 had been  approved  by the Court. 
He said that Phoenix  had confirmed that letters had been issued to the affected customers  
informing them of the transfer.
Mr N accepted the explanation about  the transfer of the annuity. However he said that he 
could not find any document issued by London Life that said he could not cash-in his 
pension. If there was no restriction then Phoenix  should not be able to impose one. 
Mr N said that he had found a section of the London  Life annuity policy documents  which 
says he could request  a cash  sum if he was in serious ill health. Phoenix had not 
commented on this. He said that as his wife is considerably younger  than him it would be 
beneficial for it to allow him to cash-in his annuity.  He said that Phoenix had not properly 
reviewed his request  to cash-in his annuity. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pension annuities  such as Mr Ns are not normally  designed to be cashed in. They are set 
up to provide income for a particular period (usually until the death of the annuitant  or their 
spouse if later).  In exchange for this income the individual gives the annuity  provider their 
pension fund. Essentially the individual buys the annuity from the provider with the pension 
fund. So the pension fund does not exist anymore. The annuitant only has the right then to 
receive an income. 
Phoenix has said that it is not willing  to pay Mr N a cash sum for his annuity.  As the 
investigator set out, that is a commercial decision that it is entitled to make. It was not 
envisaged when  this annuity  was set up that an option would be to exchange the annuity  for 
a cash sum and that would not normally be allowable. Bearing in mind  that the agreement  in 
2004 was that it supply  an income  for a set period in exchange for the pension fund, I do not 
believe that is an unreasonable stance.  Whilst I appreciate that Mr N has health concerns 
that does not oblige  Phoenix  to provide a cash sum.
Ref: DRN90243722I would highlight that when Mr N applied for his annuity and cash lump  sum in 2004, the 
quotation London Life issued said:
WARNING  This policy cannot be cashed  in at any time.
This would be normal  considering it was a compulsory purchase  pension annuity.
Phoenix is not obliged to re-negotiate this contract.  Its decision is that it will continue  to pay 
the annuity but not exchange  this for a cash sum.  As I say, that is a decision  it is entitled to 
make.  It is not that Phoenix has not considered Mr Ns request. I believe it has considered it 
and declined  to make a payment in lieu of the annuity.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr N has said that his policy document sets out that London Life will 
consider a payment instead of the annuity in cases of serious ill health, that does not mean  it 
was (and therefore  Phoenix is) obliged to make such a payment. That would still be at its 
discretion. 
So I do not believe that Phoenix should agree to pay a cash  sum in exchange for Mr Ns 
annuity. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9024372