K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms D say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold  them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr C and Ms D bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C and Ms D for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to £400 a month (on the basis  
of 50% benefit  for each person) towards Mr C and Ms Ds mortgage  balance and other 
mortgage related  expenses  in the event either  of them  made a successful claim.  At the time,  
it cost £20.24 a month. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a plumber. He has told us he was entitled to more  than 
six months but less than 12 months sick pay (with at least six months full pay) and he was 
entitled to a death in service payment. He also said he would receive three  months pay if he 
was made  redundant. Mr C has said he had a medical condition  at the time of the sale. I 
note that Halifaxs  records show Mr C made a successful claim on the policy in 2002.
Ms D was employed as a machine  operator.  Initially we were  told she worked  less than 
16 hours per week but Im aware  that Halifax was told she worked full time. In addition, the 
documents provided by Halifax suggest that Ms D was working  39 hours per week when  she 
took out the mortgage so I think its more  likely  she was working  full time when she took out 
this policy. She has told us she wasnt entitled  to any sick pay and didnt  have any other 
means of repaying  the mortgage  should  she be unable to work.  But I think its likely she 
would have at least been entitled to statutory sick pay and statutory redundancy pay. Ms D 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr C and Ms Ds representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr C and Ms Ds representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C and Ms D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr C and Ms Ds representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN94495162claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr C and Ms D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to 
Mr C and Ms D and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a 
claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr C and Ms D received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C and Ms D disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Ms Ds. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Ms Ds 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN94495163There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr C and Ms Ds case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr C and Ms Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr C and Ms D with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN94495164-Whether Halifax gave Mr C and Ms D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr C and Ms D, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and Ms D 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr C and Ms Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr C and Ms D know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are options to tick in order to accept 
or decline to take out the cover. The yes box has been ticked  and Mr C and Ms D 
have signed to confirm their selection.  They have also signed  the overall application 
which suggests they agreed with everything  that had been entered.  If Mr C and Ms D 
didnt want to take out the cover they could have ticked  the no box.
Ive also seen Mr C and Ms D completed  and signed  a separate PPI application  form. 
This detailed  information  such  as the monthly benefit and cost of the premium, along 
with recording responses to some questions about their employment  and health  status.  
As before, if Mr C and Ms D didnt want the cover,  they could have left the form blank.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C and Ms D knew  the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr C and Ms D couldnt  remember if they 
received advice or not. Looking at what Halifax says happened when it sold them  the PPI, I 
think it did provide advice.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr C and Ms D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Looking at the PPI application form which was completed, it would suggest Halifax took 
some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr C and Ms D. On the form it asks some  information about  their employment status and if 
they had any medical  conditions.  The adviser  would have had some  limited information 
about Mr C and Ms Ds financial circumstances from the mortgage  application,  but there is 
no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr C and Ms D had 
Ref: DRN94495165a need for the policy  by asking questions about  their wider circumstances such  as existing 
means. So I dont  think  it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C and Ms D given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C and Ms D, I do think its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C and Ms D met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr C and Ms D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that their ability to continue 
to meet  their mortgage repayments would  have been put under strain if one, or both 
of them,  was not working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick 
pay and redundancy benefits  Mr C says he would have been entitled to and the 
statutory benefits  that Ms D may have been entitled  to receive.
-Although Mr C and Ms D say they were financially  stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C and Ms D. 
There was nothing  about their employment or occupations which would have  made it 
difficult for them to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions,  Mr C has told us 
about the mild asthma he had before the sale. But based on what  he has told us 
about this condition, I dont think this would  have made the policy unsuitable.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr C and Ms Ds 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr C and Ms D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C and Ms D were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because the mortgage  application described the cover as 
Accident, sickness and unemployment  insurance  and the separate  PPI application included 
information about the premium and the monthly benefit. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr C and Ms D agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C and Ms D Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN94495166Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr C and Ms D all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr C and Ms Ds representative  has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr C and Ms Ds. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr C and Ms Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C and Ms D about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr C and Ms Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr C and Ms D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr C and Ms D? To what extent  did 
Mr C and Ms D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr C and Ms D. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr C and Ms D suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr C and Ms D would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C and Ms D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C and Ms D have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mr C and Ms D would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN94495167Mr C and Ms D say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C and Ms D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment, they concluded  they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr C and Ms Ds circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr C and Ms D were  given about the cost and 
monthly benefit was clear.  But the information about  other aspects of the policy,  such  as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C and Ms D thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury that 
was known about or should have been known about  or for which  advice, treatment or 
counselling was received  from a doctor  in the 12 months before the start date and 
which recurred within 24 months of that date;   
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr C or Ms D werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C or Ms D be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr C and Ms D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C and Ms D from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr C and Ms Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
Ref: DRN94495168should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr C says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because from what Mr C has told 
us and Halifax, this condition was controlled and he had only needed to take a few days off 
work but never  more than a week. So I dont  think Mr C would have thought he would have 
been off work (for more  than the 30 day period required by the policy) and need  to claim 
because of it.
Im aware that Mr C has also told us about some other injuries and conditions which he has 
suffered from  but these all appear  to have  occurred  after the date of the sale. So these 
wouldnt have been affected by the limitation  to the policy surrounding conditions already in 
existence.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr C and Ms D wouldve been caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems  Mr C and Ms D 
have also told us about family members who have suffered with bad backs  - and the steps  
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr C and Ms D might  reasonably have  expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  
to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr C and Ms D from taking out the policy,  Mr C and Ms D, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr C and Ms D had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do 
both their job and any similar job which in the insurers  view their experience, education  or 
training might mean they are reasonably  qualified  to do, it might  have played into their 
thinking about what they would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been overly concerned given  that if 
Mr C and Ms D were  unable (through  disability) to carry on their own occupations the 
chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, 
be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr C and Ms D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr C would have received full sick pay for and his 
redundancy entitlement is also likely to be significantly less than 12 months income. And if 
Ms D did receive statutory sick pay, the amounts she would receive would likely be less than 
her actual income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr C and Ms D would still have  thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr C or Ms D be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr C and Ms Ds sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Ref: DRN94495169Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C and Ms D would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if either  of them  were  made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr C and Ms D would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr C and Ms Ds representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints 
(DISP App 3) make  it clear  that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh  
the presumption.  They say we should  follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C and Ms D would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account 
Mr C and Ms Ds circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr C and Ms D found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C and Ms D believe  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C and Ms D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr C and Ms D compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C and Ms D think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
Ref: DRN944951610information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr C and Ms D, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr C and Ms Ds representative says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr C and Ms D and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr C and Ms D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9449516