K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited (Cigna) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a loan.
background
In 2005 Mr P took out a loan over the phone with Cigna. At the same time he was sold a PPI 
policy to cover his payments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost his 
job. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  there  was 
enough evidence  to show that Cigna  had given Mr P the opportunity during the sale to 
actively confirm that he wanted to take the policy  out or highlighted that the PPI was a 
separate product from the loan.
Cigna disagreed. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Cigna had to make clear  to Mr P that the PPI was optional  and make  sure Mr P agreed to 
take it. Cigna say their salesperson wouldve done  this. But theyve not given us any 
documents from the time (like a call recording, or an application form signed by Mr P) that 
shows how the salesperson wouldve actually made this clear  or that Mr P agreed  to take the 
policy. 
Cigna have referred us to a telephone  script but as it is dated after the sale took place I am 
unable to rely on this.
Cigna have told us that Mr P wouldve  been  sent documentation about the policy  after it was 
taken out and that he couldve cancelled  the plan without incurring charges within  the 30 day 
cooling off period. But I dont think receiving documents about the policy  after it was sold 
shows me that Cigna  made it clear the policy was optional or that Mr P agreed to take the 
policy at the time of sale.
So taking everything into account, I cant say its likely  Cigna did make it clear  to Mr P that 
the PPI was optional. So it follows that I uphold his complaint.
what Cigna should  do to put things right
Cigna should  put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and Cigna should:
Pay Mr P the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Ref: DRN91496752Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Cigna can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Cigna to take off tax from this interest. Cigna must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr P complaint  against Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited and direct they 
pay the fair compensation outlined above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9149675