K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs R complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them monthly premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr P and Mrs R were  sold a MPPI policy in 2004 in connection with a further advance on 
their mortgage. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr P and Mrs Rs names,  the PPI policy only covered     
Mr P. The MPPI would have provided  a monthly  benefit for up to 24 months per claim if     
Mr P was off work sick or lost his job.
This MPPI policy was later cancelled and Mr P and Mrs R were  sold a different  MPPI  policy  
in 2008 alongside a further advance on their mortgage. This policy would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr P was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr P and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld.  Mr P and Mrs R 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr P and Mrs Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr P and Mrs Rs complaint about the mis-sale. 
I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr P was eligible under  the policies. Based on Mr Ps age 
and employment  (amongst other  things)  at the time of the sales,  Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear  to Mr P that the MPPI was optional and needed his consent  before 
it could be applied to the account.  Mr  P says he doesnt remember  PPI being sold to him 
and didnt agree to take it out. Mr P says if he didnt need  PPI because he had sufficient sick 
pay from his employer. 
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr P has 
told us and considered BoS sales process as well as available documents  from the time of 
the sales in order  to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during  the sales.
First of all I note that Mr P didnt take PPI out when he was first sold the mortgage. This 
implies that Mr P wouldve known that he could borrow money without having to take PPI.  
Mr P took PPI out in connection with the further  advances in 2004  and 2008. BoS no longer 
have the application forms from the time of the sales. But based  on my understanding of the 
sales process for these  types of MPPI policies, the documents  would have  made it clear that 
the MPPI  was optional.  And BoS have provided us with some documents  from the 2008  
sale. In particular, Ive seen a copy of the demands and needs statement which would have 
Ref: DRN91926102been completed at the time of the sale. This shows that a discussion about PPI did take 
place and I can see that Mrs R refused to take cover. 
So all in all, I cant say its more  likely  that Mr P and Mrs R wouldnt have been aware that 
they were taking out PPI or that it wasnt presented as optional.  I think  its more  likely that it 
was applied to the account because Mr P chose to take it out.
BoS accept they advised  Mr P and Mrs R to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont  know  if BoS took all the steps they should have to check  if the MPPI 
was suitable for Mr P and Mrs R but I do think the policies  were suitable for them. I say this 
because:
-The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ps sick pay and in relation to the 
first policy  it would  have paid out for a much  longer time than his employee benefits.  
The MPPI was protecting a valuable asset and so I think  it was suitable for Mr P and 
Mrs R to have arrangements  in place to cover the repayments if Mr P was unable to 
work.
-I appreciate Mr P may have held some  savings. I havent seen evidence of these 
savings but if Mr P did have some  savings, this wouldnt  have necessarily meant the 
PPI was unsuitable for him. This is because the savings could have taken care of 
other essential living costs while the mortgage  took care of the repayments. And 
although Mr P says he couldve have relied on his partner to help him meet the 
repayments if he couldnt work, this would have meant that his partner would have 
had to shoulder all the repayments  and other bills herself.  
-Mr P doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policies which would 
have made it difficult for him to make  a successful claim  under the policies.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr P and 
Mrs R at the time of the sales.
-Mr P and Mrs R could  have cancelled the policies at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  them.
As well as checking that the MPPI were suitable, BoS also had to give them clear 
information about the MPPI  in particular about  the costs, benefits  and main exclusions in 
the policies  so that they could  make an informed decision about whether or not to take it 
out.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr P and Mrs R wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policies  were mis-sold as I have  to go on and 
consider whether better  information would have put them off taking  them out. And I dont 
think it would  have.  I say this for the same reasons  I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So I dont  think BoS mis-sold Mr P and Mrs R these PPI policies.
.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr P and Mrs Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Ref: DRN91926103Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9192610