K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance  
(PPI) with a loan.
background
For the sake of clarity - a different business  sold the policy, but this was before this firm was 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or 
was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction (for example through membership of a former 
scheme.) So I cant consider the complaint against  the actual seller.  But this business was 
acting on behalf  of Aviva as the insurer, so Aviva  has taken responsibility for the complaint. 
For ease I will only refer to Aviva.
Briefly  In 1999 Mr M applied for a loan for the purpose of buying a car. At the same time he 
also took out PPI designed to protect his loan payments in the event he couldnt work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost around £13 a month protecting  Mr Ms 
loan repayment  of just under £200.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Mr M chose to take out the 
policy and there was nothing to indicate  it was fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Mr M, through his representative disagrees.  He says he felt pressured by the adviser to take 
the policy out.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Theres very little by way of information  or paperwork available about the sale  and this isnt 
surprising given the sale happened  around  20 years ago. This means its difficult  for me to 
understand what happened and to firstly answer  the question whether Aviva advised Mr M to 
take out the policy.
I can see Mr M says he didnt receive advice, but the adjudicator concluded Aviva did give 
advice. Ive thought about this carefully. And having done so, Im not persuaded theres 
enough evidence  here to fairly and reasonably conclude Mr M received advice and was 
given a recommendation to take out PPI. For example Ive looked at the sample PPI 
application Aviva  has provided, which it says was in use around the time Mr M took out his 
policy. And here I can see it says at the bottom where it asks customers to sign to say they 
dont want cover: I have  had the benefits  of Clarke  Cover  explained  to me and I have 
chosen not to take the plan.
Ref: DRN92057272I think its reasonable that if advice was being given, the application would use language to 
reflect that  such  as youve been  recommended to take out cover or youve been 
advised that the cover is suitable  for you. But it doesnt  it says the cover  was explained.
So this coupled with the fact Ive seen nothing else to persuade me that advice was given, I 
think, more likely than not, Mr M did not receive  advice as his own testimony states. This 
means Aviva didnt have  to ensure  the policy was suitable or right for Mr M. But it did need  to 
give him enough clear  and timely  information about  the policy so Mr M could  make  that 
decision himself. Ive kept this question in mind in considering this complaint.
I would add here that determining this matter is not important to the overall outcome of this 
complaint. I say this because in any event I think the policy was ultimately suitable for Mr M. 
did Mr M choose  to take out PPI without undue  pressure?
I can see in response to the adjudicators  assessment,  Mr M through his representative  says 
he felt pressured  to take out the policy as the staff member talked about the length of their 
loan and that they had a young family.
Ive already said theres little paperwork from the time to help me understand what  
happened. But looking  at the sample PPI application Aviva has provided  and which I 
accept in the absence of persuasive evidence to the contrary  is likely what Mr M saw - it 
required a customer to sign to take out the policy and it required a signature to decline it. Im 
also mindful this was a separate application  from the loan agreement. The cost was also in 
my view clearly  separated out from the loan repayment.
Ive thought about what Mr M says about being pressured. And while I accept  he was likely  
encouraged to take out PPI given  the nature of the sales environment he was in, Ive not 
seen enough to persuade  me that Aviva went further than it should have done and Mr M was 
pressured to take it out.
So overall, I think Mr M likely chose  to take out PPI by signing the application  where 
indicated and that he did so without undue  pressure. 
did Mr M get all the information about PPI he fairly and reasonably needed?
I think it is likely from what Ive seen that Mr M was told how much the cover cost because 
from the sample loan agreement  and PPI application it appears it would have been included 
on both of these  documents presented to Mr M for signing. Im also mindful that Mr M paid 
the premiums  a separate  and distinct payment from the loan  for a period of time, so if the 
cost was at odds with what he was told or assumed from the information  he was given I 
would have expected him to have queried it with the business sooner.
But the limited  evidence here suggests Aviva principally relied on the information contained 
within the policy document to set out the benefits  and exclusions of the cover.  But I dont 
know what opportunity  Mr M was given to read this. Im mindful  he was in a showroom 
buying a car, so I find it unlikely he was given much  time. And in a face to face meeting 
situation I think its likely he would have  relied more on what he was told by the member of 
staff than on written material.
Ref: DRN92057273So the evidence  doesnt tell me that the significant  exclusions and limitations of cover  were 
highlighted and specifically  brought to Mr Ms attention  for example existing medical 
condition exclusions.  And this was important information Mr M needed to know. 
I accept therefore  it is possible things did not happen as they should have.
But this doesnt  automatically mean Mr M has lost out and he should be compensated. I 
need to go on and consider if, and to what extent  hes suffered loss as a result of the things 
Aviva didnt do.
Having done so, I dont think Mr M has lost out  I dont think  it is likely he would have acted 
differently and declined PPI if Aviva had done more. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the cover.
Ive concluded  Mr M chose to take it out, so he was clearly interested in this type of 
cover.
it wasnt fundamentally unsuitable  or wrong for him given  his circumstances at the 
time  for example  Mr M didnt have significant  sick pay or other substantive  means 
he could rely on to help him out if things  went wrong.
he was employed  and in good  health at the time, so he wasnt  affected by the 
significant exclusions of cover
Ive already said I think Mr M understood the cost - but in any event it appears  to 
have been affordable  for him.
the policy didnt  operate  significantly differently from what Mr M likely expected  based  
on the information he was given.
So overall, while I accept  it is possible that things did not happen  as they should  have, for 
the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Mr M has lost out because I think  hed have still 
gone ahead  and taken out PPI if Aviva had done more. It wouldnt fair in those 
circumstances to award compensation as that would put Mr M in a better position than I think  
he would  otherwise have been.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9205727