K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited unfairly 
increased the cost of her unemployment insurance policies.
background
In 2016, Mrs D took out a critical illness insurance policy  and unemployment insurance 
policy with Royal London. She also took out waiver  of premium (unemployment)  benefit  so 
that the premiums  for the above policies would continue to be paid on her behalf for up to 
twelve months in the event that she was made involuntarily unemployed.
In 2018, Royal London wrote to Mrs D to explain it had made  a mistake in calculating  the 
cost of the unemployment cover and waiver of premium  (unemployment)  benefit with the 
result that she was paying too little for her cover. While it wouldnt seek to recover  the 
amount by which it had so far undercharged,  it said that unfortunately the premium would 
have to rise by an expected 44% at the next policy anniversary date to reflect the true cost of 
the cover.
Mrs D complained to Royal London. She said shed been enticed  into taking out the cover  on 
the basis it was reasonably competitive.  She considered the price  rise to be unreasonable 
and said shed been disadvantaged  by Royal Londons error.
Royal London apologised and offered £150  compensation. However, it explained that under 
the terms of the policy it was entitled to review  the premiums at each anniversary so it was 
satisfied it was acting  in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Mrs D was unhappy at Royal  Londons  response. She referred  her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  
Royal London had acted reasonably.
Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said that her policys premium  was now 
out of line with the rest of the market but that if she cancelled it she would be faced with a six 
month qualifying  period  before she could  make an eligible claim under a new policy.  She 
thought she should be compensated for this. She further considered  that Royal London had 
handled her complaint very poorly.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Royal London has explained that it made a mistake in the pricing of the policy  and as a 
result was charging significantly less than it should  have been  for the cover from the outset.  
This error didnt just affect  Mrs D; it affected all policyholders who had taken out this type of 
cover. I see no reason  to dispute  Royal Londons  explanation. I have no grounds for 
supposing that it deliberately chose to charge less at the outset and then increase the price.   
Ref: DRN93984202When it discovered its error, Royal London wrote to Mrs D to alert her. It assured her it 
wouldnt seek to recover the amount  it had undercharged but explained the amount by which 
it expected premiums to increase at the next anniversary.  It said it would write to confirm  the 
actual increase six weeks before this was due to take effect.
The premiums for the unemployment cover and the waiver of premium  (unemployment) 
benefit, unlike the premium  for Mrs Ds critical illness policy,  were not guaranteed. The policy 
document makes  clear that they could instead  be reviewed at each anniversary of the policy  
start date and states: If you have reviewable premiums, they could change significantly. 
The document says that, when reviewing the premiums, Royal  London would take account 
of a range  of factors. Im satisfied Royal London  was entitled to review the premiums at the 
next anniversary of Mrs Ds plan and to adjust them to reflect  the true cost of the cover.
Mrs D says shes been disadvantaged because if shed known the true cost shed have 
chosen to take out unemployment cover  with another provider. However, she chose to take 
out policies with reviewable  premiums  so there was always  the risk that these would 
significantly increase  in price. If shed  chosen a similar policy from another insurer  there  is 
no guarantee that she would now have cheaper  cover than that offered by Royal  London. 
And while I recognise that some policies require the policyholder to serve a qualifying period 
(which may vary from policy  to policy) before they can make  an unemployment claim, these 
policies also often contain a clause allowing this period  to be waived if the applicant is 
switching from an existing  unemployment policy (indeed, the Royal  London policy  itself 
contains such a clause).  So I dont think Mrs D has shown she has necessarily been 
disadvantaged by Royal Londons  error. On the contrary, she has paid less for her cover  
over the past two years than the true commercial rate.
Mrs D has also complained about  the way in which Royal London handled her complaint. 
Royal London has acknowledged it didnt handle this as well as it should, which caused  
delays in the complaint process. It has offered £150  compensation  for its overall  failings, 
including in the handling of the complaint. I think this was reasonable.
It is unfortunate that Royal  London made its pricing  error. However,  since it discovered this I 
think it has acted in a reasonable  way. If Mrs D wishes, she may cancel her unemployment 
cover without affecting her critical illness insurance  policy. I dont think  Royal London needs 
to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9398420