K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Nationwide Building  Society gave them incorrect information  
which resulted in them paying an early  repayment charge (ERC). They  ask that the charge is 
refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs B sold their property and repaid their mortgage with Nationwide in early 2018. 
Their intended  purchase fell through  and they later found another property. When  they spoke 
to Nationwides  mortgage adviser on 2 July 2018  they say she told them porting wasnt 
available unless they completed  their purchase by 11 July 2018. They were unable  to do 
this, so set a completion date of 31 August 2018. Mr and Mrs B say they later found out that 
the deadline to complete their purchase  and port the mortgage was 3 August 2018. They say 
it would  have been possible to complete by this date.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said Nationwide  
should refund the ERC with 8% interest.  Nationwide didnt agree.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties in November 2019.  I said Nationwide had made  
an error and given Mr and Mrs B incorrect information about the porting deadline.  Mr and 
Mrs B provided evidence that they could have  completed before the porting deadline. I said 
Nationwide should  re-work  Mr and Mrs Bs account  as if theyd been  able to port the 
mortgage. Since then,  both parties  have commented  and Nationwide  provided information 
about how the re-worked account would look.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs B sold their property and repaid their Nationwide mortgage on 5 February 2018. 
They paid an ERC of about £5,900. Mr and Mrs B intended to buy another  property and port 
their interest rate product  but the purchase  didnt  go ahead.  Mr and Mrs B made  an offer for 
another property  which was accepted  on 18 June 2018. 
Mr and Mrs B met with Nationwides  mortgage  adviser on 2 July 2018. Mr and Mrs B say 
they were told by the mortgage adviser  theyd have to complete their purchase by 11 July 
2018 to port their interest rate. They  didnt  think this would be possible.  
I think there was some  confusion about  the mortgage offer issued in January 2018  for the 
purchase of the property  that didnt go ahead. The mortgage offer expired on 11 July and 
Nationwide had agreed to extend this. It seems from what Mr and Mrs B said in their 
complaint that they couldnt understand why Nationwide  didnt offer the same extension  so 
they could port the interest  rate to the new property.  But this extension wasnt  available  for 
the new property  and the mortgage adviser told them this. I think  this was correct.
Ref: DRN96026072But I think its likely Nationwide  made  errors when giving Mr and Mrs B information about the 
latest date they could  complete their purchase to port the interest  rate to the new property.
When the mortgage adviser met with Mr and Mrs B in December 2017  she completed a 
suitability questionnaire. In it, she recorded that Mr and Mrs B had an overriding priority  not 
to pay any early repayment charges and still have the need to fix your mortgage for as long 
as is possible with Nationwide.
The mortgage adviser says she told Mr and Mrs B on 2 July 2018  theyd have to complete 
within 180 days of repaying their mortgage in order to port their previous interest rate to a 
new property. Her recommendation letter says this. But I havent  seen evidence that the 
mortgage adviser gave  the correct date to Mr and Mrs B  that is, 3 August 2018.
The mortgage adviser knew Mr and Mrs Bs overriding  priority  was to avoid the ERC. When 
they met in early  July 2018  Mr and Mrs B had one month to complete their purchase and 
port the interest rate. Its clear from what Mr and Mrs B said in their complaint  and when 
asking the mortgage adviser  about extensions of the deadline  that Mr and Mrs B wanted to 
port the interest rate. 
In the circumstances, Id expect there  to have  been  some discussion during the 2 July 
meeting about  the 3 August 2018 deadline.  Yet theres nothing in the advisers notes or the 
various emails Mr and Mrs B have written  about their complaint to suggest this. Notes  made  
by the mortgage adviser in July 2018 say redeemed previous mortgage with Nationwide  in 
January of this year and will not be completing  on the new mortgage until August 2018 
therefore outside policy to do a non-simultaneous  port. 
Nationwide says the mortgage adviser  based her advice on the information  she was given 
by Mr and Mrs B  that they intended  to complete in August. But I dont think  this is good  
enough. Given that she knew Mr and Mrs B wanted  to avoid the ERC and the porting  
deadline was a month away, I think  the adviser  should have raised this. 
I think, based on the available  evidence, its likely the mortgage adviser did give 
Mr and Mrs B incorrect information about  the latest date they could complete and still port 
the interest rate. I think its likely they were  led to believe  the deadline was 11 July. 
would Mr and Mrs B have completed  their purchase by 3 August 2018?
Nationwide says there are emails  between solicitors for Mr and Mrs B and the vendors which 
refer to 31 August  2018 as the agreed completion date. However these emails are dated  
after Mr and Mrs B met with Nationwides mortgage adviser. And while  it also points  to the 
certificate of title, which gives 31 August 2018  as the completion  date, this was issued on 
26 July 2018  also after Mr and Mrs B met with the mortgage adviser. Mr and Mrs B dont 
dispute that 31 August was the agreed completion date: they say they agreed it because 
they hadnt been given  the correct information  about the porting deadline.  
Mr and Mrs B say the vendors moved in with family. Mr and Mrs B had already sold their 
property. So it doesnt seem there was a chain that would have prevented  an earlier 
completion date. Nationwide issued a mortgage offer on 9 July 2018, so this was in place. 
The certificate of title was issued  on 26 July 2018: so the legal work was completed  in time 
for completion to take place by 3 August 2018.  
Ref: DRN96026073Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor  confirmed that he sees no reason why the sale could  not have 
completed on or before 2 August, with the sellers  consent.
Mr and Mrs B provided a statement from the vendor  saying that the vendor was willing   
indeed would have  preferred  to complete during July 2018. Weve also received an email  
from the vendors  solicitor  saying he saw no reason why the transaction  couldnt have 
completed on or before 3 August 2018  and his clients were  amenable  to completing the sale 
by then. 
The vendor  and Mr and Mrs B have  stated that 31 August 2018 was chosen as the 
completion date because Mr and Mrs B had paid rent to the end of August. They  say theyd 
have agreed to complete sooner if theyd known Mr and Mrs B could have ported the 
mortgage. 
Based on the available evidence, I think its likely  Mr and Mrs B would have completed the 
purchase in time to port their mortgage.
what should happen now?
I think Nationwide made an error.  It gave  Mr and Mrs B incorrect information on 2 July 2018 
about the deadline to port their mortgage.  I think, if Mr and Mrs B had been given correct  
information, they would likely have completed their purchase within  the porting deadline. 
I think Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs B into the position they would  have been  in had it 
not made the error.  That is, they would have ported their mortgage product and avoided 
paying the ERC. However, Mr and Mrs B wouldnt  have benefitted from their current product 
on the entire balance of the new mortgage, which  has a lower interest rate than the one they 
would have ported and I think  this should also be taken into account.
So I think Nationwide should re-work  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account  as if they had ported 
their mortgage product.  Mr and Mrs Bs new mortgage loan is more than the one repaid: 
Nationwide should  assume theyd have  taken out their new product (with the lower interest 
rate) for the additional amount. 
If Mr and Mrs Bs contractual monthly  payments would have been  higher if the mortgage  
product had been ported,  the re-calculated mortgage will result in a shortfall  in payments. 
Nationwide should  complete the rebuild as though all payments were made in full and on 
time. The refunded  ERC can have any shortfall or underpayments  deducted from it before 
settlement. Nationwide should then pay the remainder to Mr and Mrs B, with interest  at 8% 
simple from the date the new mortgage  completed  to the date of the refund*.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision.  It provided calculations so that Mr and Mrs B 
could understand  the effect  this will have on their mortgage account  and contractual  monthly 
payments before deciding whether to go ahead. It said it could apply  a five or 10 year 
product to the additional borrowing.
Mr and Mrs B asked  that Nationwide refund the ERC but without re-working their mortgage 
account. Nationwide didnt agree and I dont think its fair to require it do this. If Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage had been ported,  they wouldnt have benefitted from their current product 
on the entire balance of their new mortgage: I think this should be taken into account.
Ref: DRN96026074Mr and Mrs B should now decide  whether they want to go ahead on the basis Ive set out 
above. If so, they should also confirm to Nationwide if they want a five or 10 year product for 
their additional  borrowing. 
I think its right that Nationwide pays compensation for its error and the effect it had on 
Mr and Mrs B. I think compensation of £400  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest, it must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Nationwide  Building  Society  to:
rebuild Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  account  as if they had ported their previous mortgage 
product when they bought  their new property; and
pay £400 to Mr and Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.  
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9602607