K821x#15complaint
M, a limited company, has complained Barclays Bank PLC,  trading  as Barclaycard, didnt 
refund them  for unauthorised transactions on their company Barclaycard. 
M is represented in its complaint by Mr B, a director.
background
In June 2018 Mr B asked  for a commercial credit card from Barclaycard. At the same time he 
updated them with Ms revised address  details.  Unfortunately  the new card and PIN was 
sent to the wrong address. An unknown third party quickly used up the full credit limit of 
£3,000. Ms current account was debited with minimum payments to the credit card account.
Mr B noticed  this and alerted Barclaycard. They immediately refunded the amounts and 
asked M to complete  paperwork to confirm the unauthorised transactions. This wasnt  
returned and Barclaycard  re-debited Ms credit card account.
Mr B got quite exasperated with what he felt was Barclaycards intransigence. Barclaycard 
offered M £100  for the inconvenience  caused.  Mr B brought Ms complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. He accepted  there had been an impact on M but 
didnt believe this had been serious. M could continue to make purchases as before and at 
no time had the current account been  short of funds.
Mr B didnt think this took into account the time spent in trying  to sort out what  had 
happened. Hed also been disappointed  Barclaycard hadnt  provided detailed information 
following subject access requests. Hes asked an ombudsman to review Ms complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion as our investigator  although I believe Barclaycard should  pay additional 
compensation. Ill explain why.
Although Im not looking at the fraudulent transactions  in detail, Ive looked at what  
happened here. Theres no dispute  Ms new credit card was sent to the wrong address along  
with the PIN. This resulted in the person receiving this card taking out £3,500 from cash 
machines with Ms account being charged for those transactions, along with fees and 
interest.
Barclaycard has never suggested Mr B, on Ms behalf, authorised these transactions. To 
avoid any doubt,  Im satisfied having  reviewed all the evidence  M didnt make  or authorise 
these transactions.
I can see from Ms credit  card statements that all transactions, £3,450  plus fees and interest  
along with overlimit fees, were refunded by the time Ms 14 February 2019 statement was 
published. From September 2018  onwards M had been making minimum payments towards 
the credit  card bill by direct debit. Barclaycard also paid Ms compensation of £100 by 
crediting the credit card account  in January 2019.  This is why later statements show the 
Ref: DRN95570362account being in credit. On 18 March  2019 M made a balance transfer from the credit card 
account to their current account.  This cost them  less than the £2,000  transferred  because  of 
the credit  built up in the account.
One of the issues  I believe  Mr B was concerned about was that M remained out of pocket. 
Having reviewed the statements in detail I dont  think this is the case.
I have then gone on to consider whether the compensation Barclaycard paid was right. £100 
was credited on 3 January 2019.  The final response sent to M confirmed how this £100 was 
made up.  £25 of this was for sending the card to the wrong address and £50 for poor 
service.
Our investigator felt an additional £150  should  be paid as he believed previous 
compensation didnt adequately reflect the inconvenience caused to M. 
Ive also looked  at the issues Mr B raised  about  not having sufficient  funds in Ms current  
account. But I cant see this was caused by the fraud that happened  on Ms credit card 
account. In fact I can see from reviewing Ms details on Companies House that an 
application to strike-off the company commenced  before any fraud took place. I also note M 
is still operating as any strike-off has been  put in abeyance.  So I dont think  any financial 
concerns M may have had were  caused  by the subsequent fraud  on their credit  card.
I do however believe  insufficient compensation has been paid. Not only was this whole mess 
caused by Barclaycard sending the card to the wrong address but it did take them quite 
some time to sort out the transactions and clear  the account. Five months seems too long 
when I believe there is so little dispute  around the facts about what  happened.  This 
inevitably caused M inconvenience.  Im going  to add a further £150 to what  our investigators  
already confirmed. M will therefore get a total of £400 compensation.
Im sure Mr B will remain disappointed. But Im only able to pay businesses  compensation 
for the inconvenience  and whether there  has been  any impact  on the business itself  rather 
than its director. Ive also looked at the data protection aspects and I know  this has riled 
Mr B. He can take any complaint M has to the appropriate regulator  for this aspect  the 
Information Commissioners Office.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank PLC,  trading as 
Barclaycard, to pay M £300 on top of £100 compensation previously paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9557036