K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the quality of repairs on his car in 2016 by a garage that was part of 
the Kindertons  Ltd (Kindertons) approved  network.  
background
In 2016 Mr O was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. Kindertons was instructed to 
deal with Mr Os claim,  including arranging for repair of Mr Os car. 
Mr Os car was repaired at a garage that was part of Kindertons  network  (garage  M). 
Kindertons instructed an independent  engineer  to assess the damage to Mr Os car, and say 
what work needed to be carried out. The engineers  report included  a repair schedule 
showing the remove and repair  parts,  which included R/R Bumper Reinforcement. Mr Os 
car was repaired and returned to him. 
In December 2018 Mr Os car was hit whilst it was parked. The impact  was to the rear 
bumper- similar to the area where it was damaged in 2016.  Mr O took his car to a local 
garage (garage N). Garage N told Mr O that when it removed the rear bumper for repair the 
cross rail reinforce member had been  damaged to the extent that the member was bowed  
and in our opinion would have been caused  by a much heavier accident  impact.
Mr O contacted the third party insurer (TPI) from 2016 to find out what repairs  had been 
agreed to at the time.  The TPI told Mr O that itd paid for a new bumper  to be fitted in 2016.  
Mr O contacted Kindertons to complain about the work carried out in 2016. Mr O was 
unhappy that the cross rail reinforce member  (CRRM) hadnt been  replaced, when Mr O had 
been told this was part of the repairs agreed. 
Kindertons looked  into the complaint, and instructed an engineer to complete  a post-repair 
inspection (PRI) of Mr Os car. The engineers report found that I am unable  to find any fault 
with the previous repairOn inspection it is clear that the damage  sustained to this cross 
member is fresh damage.  There is flaking paint with bare metal and no corrosion, the dirt 
has fresh  markings to further  clarify  this is recent  damage. Following the engineers  
inspection, garage  N fitted  a new CCRM, and charged Mr O for this work.  
Mr O complained to Kindertons saying he thought the CCRM had been  replaced in 2016.  
Mr O said that he wouldve specified  that he wanted a new bumper as that accident had 
pushed the car at quite a distance. Mr O asked  Kindertons to pay him the £620 it cost him 
to repair  the damage  to his car in 2019,  including a new CRRM. Kindertons told Mr O that 
based on the PRI it didnt have enough  evidence to say that the work carried out in 2016 
was poor.  Kindertons didnt offer any compensation. 
Mr O referred  his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate. The investigator found that Kindertons had acted 
reasonably, and didnt recommend any compensation in resolution  of Mr Os complaint. 
Mr O disagreed with the findings saying that Id asked Kindertons  if I could have a new 
bumper and they said yes, and Im positive of that, I remember  saying  it on the phone. Mr O 
also explained that a new bumper is a complete  bumper, and the engineer  shouldve  
recommended a new CCRM given  the force of the impact in 2016.   
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
Ref: DRN96761632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  I agree 
with the investigators  outcome on this complaint, for broadly the same  reasons. I can 
understand this is likely to come  as a disappointment to Mr O but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.  
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific  
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
Mr O has provided  a detailed account  of the conversation he had with a rep from garage M 
when his car was sent in for repairs in 2016.  Mr M says that he made a clear  that a new 
bumper would need to be fitted.  Mr M says that if this hadnt had been agreed, he wouldnt 
have agreed for garage M to complete  repairs on his car. 
I dont doubt that what  Mr O has told this service  is true to the very best of his knowledge. In 
response to the investigators findings Mr O expressed his disappointment that the evidence 
provided by Kindertons didnt include anything in support of his complaint about a new 
bumper being  fitted, and this being  discussed.  
Although I can appreciate  Mr M feels strongly  that this was agreed with Kindertons, I dont 
think the lack of evidence supporting this makes  a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I think the question of whether Kindertons has acted fairly is more  concerned  with 
whether it did enough  to ensure Mr Os car was repaired in line with what the engineer  had 
agreed. Even if Kindertons had told Mr O that a new bumper would be fitted, (and I cant  see 
any evidence that it did), it wouldnt be for Kindertons to make  this decision. Only the 
engineer could provide a professional opinion on the damage and impact  caused by the 
accident, and what work  was required  to put things right. 
In this case, I cant see any evidence to support Mr Os complaint  that the repairs at the time 
included a replacement  CRRM being  fitted. The engineers report  shows that the R/R 
Bumper Reinforcement was part of the repair and replace parts.  So its likely that this is 
what happened. 
Mr O has provided  evidence  from the TPI which says I confirm  we paid Kindertons the sum 
of £1028.94 representing the cost of replacing the rear bumper on the above-mentioned 
vehicle. I dont think this evidence in itself shows that the TPI paid for a replacement  CRRM.  
I appreciate Mr O feels strongly that it does, but its usual  for a TPI to have  a general record 
of whats been  agreed.  The key evidence here is what the engineer  had said should be 
authorised. Its not disputed that this is work that garage M carried out. 
I think only the engineer  in 2016 was in a position  to fairly comment what  work was required 
to repair  Mr Os car- this includes deciding on the parts to be replaced and/or repaired only. 
From what  Ive seen, the work carried out in 2016  was in line with what  the engineer had 
agreed- that is repair and replacement of the CRRM, not replacing  the CRRM with a new 
one. I dont think the opinion provided  by garage  N makes  the work  agreed by Kindertons  in 
2016 unfair or wrong.  
The damage caused to the rear bumper in 2019 was following a new incident  involving 
Mr Os car. Mr O feels strongly  that damage  to the CRRM  isnt consistent with a parked car. 
Mr O says the damaged  CRRM has been on his car since 2016. 
Ref: DRN96761633Kindertons acted fairly by asking  for a PRI when Mr O contacted it to question the quality of 
repairs carried out in 2016. I think these actions  were reasonable. The PRI didnt evidence 
anything to indicate the 2016 repairs were wrong  or incomplete. Theres no way of 
determining whether the work carried out in 2016  was to the standard  wed expect-  Mr Os 
car has since been involved in an incident,  and repaired  in full. But the evidence Ive seen 
shows that the work carried  out in 2016 was in line with the engineers professional opinion 
at the time. Because of this I wont be asking Kindertons to do anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9676163