K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 10 instalment loans Cashfloat provided  to Mr O between  October 
2016 and January 2019. Mr O borrowed amounts ranging between  £200 and £750 to be 
repaid in two, three or four monthly instalments. There was a three month gap between the 
repayment of loan one and Mr O taking out loan two. After this, Mr O borrowed continuously 
for two years. From  what I can see, Mr O repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Os complaint and thought  the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Cashfloat didnt  reply to the adjudicators view and so 
the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN93083502Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
The three month gap between loans one and two is significant. So I think it was reasonable 
for Cashfloat to treat loan two as the start of a new chain of borrowing and apply the 
affordability checks that were then appropriate.  
Cashfloat asked  Mr O for information about  his income and expenditure, which it said it 
checked with him verbally five times in the borrowing. And it carried  out credit  checks,  
including his other credit commitments.  
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Os 
circumstances at the time and his history with Cashfloat, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr O provided or the information 
Cashfloat shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr O was saying. So I cant say Cashfloat was wrong to provide loans one to 
four.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Mr O was having problems managing his money.  This is because Cashfloats 
checks should have  shown that Mr O was borrowing from many  other  lenders. And so 
Cashfloat should have realised that Mr O would be unlikely to be able to sustainably  repay 
loan five, or any subsequent loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr O, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Os case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  by this point the pattern of Mr Os borrowing showed that he was 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans:
By loan six, Mr O had been borrowing from Cashfloat for nine months and the amount he 
borrowed had increased significantly.  
From  loan six onwards Mr O was provided with a new loan within days  or weeks of 
settling a previous  one. So Cashfloat ought  to have  realised it was more likely than not 
Mr O was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his/her finances and that Mr Os indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Ref: DRN93083503Mr O wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Cashfloat.  Loan ten was 
taken out over two years  after Mr Os first. And the amount hadnt decreased. Mr O had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Cashfloat over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr O lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Os ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans five to ten and I think  Cashfloat should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loans five to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Os credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  six to ten should  be removed from Mr Os 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Os complaint. I 
require Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to pay Mr O compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020
Ref: DRN93083504Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9308350