K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs representative, her son Mr R, complains  on her behalf that she was mis-sold  life 
cover by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. 
He says shes paid in more than the policies are likely to pay out. 
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Hes satisfied that no advice was given and Mrs R approached Aviva to buy the 
policies. It was therefore up to her to decide  if she wanted to go ahead with the 
policy. 
The marketing material provided  under the section entitled  risk  made  clear  the 
risk of paying in more  than the policies  would pay out. 
The onus  was on Mrs R to make  sure the policies  were suitable for her needs. 
Despite Mrs R having taken the policies out with the best of intentions   to help with 
funeral costs  hes unable  to say the business  has done anything  wrong.  
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he says:
Mrs R was unaware of the improvements in health/medical treatment and people 
were living  longer. So she wouldnt have understood that she might live longer than 
she thought. 
Mrs R doesnt understand why shes  paid in more than the value of the policies. 
She wasnt in an informed position  from the outset. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr L says, Im not persuaded that 
Aviva has done anything wrong in the circumstances.  
On the face of the evidence, Im satisfied that the policies were  taken out on a direct  basis. 
In other  words they were sold without financial advice. Its likely Mrs R bought  the policies in 
response to an advert  as a result  Im unable to consider the suitability of the policies. 
Ref: DRN99960012Im aware that mis-selling can take place based on the nature  of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance Im satisfied the documentation  
supplied to Mrs R before she accepted the policies were clear, fair and not misleading. 
The documentation  made  reasonably clear the amounts  payable  upon claim. And because 
the policies had fixed sums assured  and premiums, it was possible that more could be paid 
in than paid out in the event of death.  
I agree  with the adjudicator that the onus was on Mrs R to make sure the policies were  
suitable for her circumstances.  I note she wouldve been given cancellation rights, in case 
she changed her mind.   
I note Mrs Rs disappointed with the potential surrender  values if she decided to cash in the 
policies early. Shes permitted to cancel anytime but is likely to get back less than the 
premiums paid in  because the policies are designed to provide life cover. 
If Mrs R didnt read the documentation  provided  I dont think Aviva can be held responsible 
for that.  Its possible Mrs R misunderstood  that owing to medical advancement people were  
living longer,  and therefore her prediction  of how long she might live for was wrong,  but that 
doesnt mean the business has done anything  wrong in this case.  
Its important to note the surrender values arent a full refund of all the premiums paid since 
the policies began. The premiums Mrs R has paid have been used to cover the cost of 
insuring her life since the policies began,  and the expenses Aviva  has incurred setting up 
and administering  the policies. 
I understand that the policies sums  assured and premiums were fixed  from the outset based 
on a number of factors including Mrs Rs age, sex, health and mortality  tables.  I note Mrs R 
paid a relatively large sum of money over the period shes  had the policies.  
But if Mrs R lived longer  than her predicted age (whether it be 81 or more), it was a natural 
consequence that she would have paid substantially more than the sums assured. But had 
she died before then,  the policies wouldve paid out more than the amount of premiums paid 
in. Thats  just how these  policies operate and isnt unique to Aviva.  
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Rs frustration Im unable to require  Aviva to do anything because  I 
dont think it has done anything wrong.  
In conclusion, these  were non-advised sales, and sufficient policy documentation was 
provided that made reasonably clear  the nature and operation of the policies, Im not 
satisfied the policies were mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9996001