K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lowes Financial  Management Limited gave her unsuitable 
advice to transfer benefits from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a section  32 
plan. She says she has lost out financially as a result of the advice. 
background
I issued a provisional decision about the merits of this complaint on 6 March  2020.The  
background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I didnt think  it should  
be upheld were set out in that decision.  A copy is attached, and it forms part of this final 
decision.
I invited both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
 
Mrs H, through her representative Mr H, didnt  agree  with my provisional decision. In brief Mr 
H:
Queried the reasons behind the adjudicators change in stance. His original 
assessment was to uphold the complaint. However he subsequently changed his 
mind and issued  another assessment not upholding the main thrust of the complaint 
about suitability.  
Referred to the part of my provisional decision where Id said:  However,  whilst I 
understand Mrs Hs frustration about  the lack of records  kept by the firm its not my 
role to regulate firms and I have no powers  to fine or punish them. He said he had 
been informed  this was Lowes employing the Enron defence; we have no records  
so you cant take any action against us. Mr H said to accept this defence  was a 
material error in law.
Said FIMBRA (Financial Intermediaries,  Managers and Brokers Regulatory 
Association) issued  a guidance  note in 1991 reminding advisers that a key point for 
firms giving transfer advice was that they had to keep adequate records.  He said for 
the ombudsman  to tolerate a breach in law (the Financial Services Act 1986), and the 
fact-finding requirements was for the ombudsman  to condone unlawful behaviour.  He 
said this was In and of itself,  a material breach in law on the part of the 
ombudsman. 
Said I had made an error of fact in my provisional decision. Id said Mrs H had 
another small deferred final salary pension from another employer, but this wasnt 
correct. I had appeared to base my decision on the fact that Mrs H had a defined 
benefit pension  elsewhere. He said this had no relevance to the advice given  and it 
wasnt possible to know this given  the firms lack of record  keeping.  
Referred  to the Wednesbury Principle established in the court case Allied Provincial 
Houses Limited v Wednesbury Corporation.  He said the case set three  guiding  
principles for public authorities  to follow, including the Ombudsman, when arriving  at 
a decision. These were: 
1.They must take in to account all relevant factors
Ref: DRN945661322.To discount all irrelevant factors; and
3.To reach  a decision that a reasonable person would not find perverse or irrational.
            He said the provisional  decision  falls foul of all these  principles. 
I had failed to take into account  the inherent  promise from the sponsoring  employer 
of the OPS. The employer had a statutory responsibility to ensure the scheme was 
fully funded.
I wasnt following the accepted wisdom that the starting point for a transfer from a 
defined benefit  scheme to a defined contribution was unsuitable. My decision was 
one that any reasonable person in possession of the facts would find perverse and 
irrational.
Lowes Financial Management Limited  said it had nothing further to add.
Mr H provided  further Scheme Information  about Mrs Hs former OPS which he had obtained 
from the Trustees of the scheme.  He also provided  further points for consideration over a 
period of time. In summary:
He didnt think the key factor was the financial viability of the transfer at the time. He 
said it was the overall viability of the transfer  and to consider that the protections 
(revaluation in times of high interest rates, employer  support, dependent's benefits) 
did not impact on the suitability of the advice  was wrong in law. He said it was the 
totality of the package  being  given up which the adviser had to assess which  hadnt 
happened in this case.
Mr H instructed an actuary to consider the transfer. The Actuary estimated that the 
non-GMP pension would have been revalued  in line with section 52A orders and 
would be of the order £700  a year with fixed annual increases.  Mr H said the Actuary 
confirmed that the advice might be claimed to be suitable  if purely based on the 
illustration and the rates used in it at that time. However, hed also confirmed the IFA 
should have demonstrated that the advice given  covered the "guaranteed" nature of 
a defined benefit pension against  the investment risks of a with-profit  section  32 
policy, and covered the differences between different investment vehicles and their 
respective risk.
He thought that, on the basis of the information supplied by the Actuary, Lowes 
hadnt provided sufficient evidence to show that the advice was given properly. He 
said relying on projections alone  wasnt sufficient  to demonstrate the advice was 
appropriate. He said evidence needed to be supplied that risk warnings were given, 
that what was being  given up was adequately  explained and that the different 
investment options had been  explained  to allow Mrs H to make  an informed decision.
Ref: DRN94566133The fact that Mrs H was excluded from the pension review  meant  she never  had the  
opportunity to have  the advice properly considered under the appropriate analytical 
regime. Mrs H had no specialist pensions knowledge. She was dependent  on the 
advice of a pension professional to properly guide her to what  would be in her best 
interests for her retirement income.  
Mr H referred  to the methodology the FCA used (and he understood its predecessor  
regulators) to assess the suitability  of transfer  advice  from a defined benefit  scheme.  
He noted this took Know Your Customer and risk appetite issues into account, and 
not simply the projected returns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In deciding  what  is fair and reasonable, 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of 
practice; and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
Although Mr H has focussed on what I said about the projections in my provisional decision, 
that was only one of the factors that I took into account in deciding whether the transfer was 
unsuitable for Mrs H given all the circumstances at the time.  As I explained in that decision, 
a transfer needs to be considered in the context of the clients wider  circumstances to gauge 
the degree of risk that it presents. And this will involve an assessment of a number of 
different competing  factors; only one of them being  whether the transfer would have been 
considered to be a reasonable financial proposition at the time it was arranged.  
Mr H has referred  to Lowes failure to keep adequate records.  He says it hasnt provided  
sufficient information  to show that advice  was properly given. I dont condone  any failures to 
keep records. But the reason I didnt uphold the complaint wasnt  because  of the lack of 
records from the time.
Lowes has said the transfer was completed on an execution only basis.  If that had been the 
case there would  only have been limited  records to keep to support the transfer being 
arranged on that basis. From what Mrs H recollects, there appears to have been only very 
limited discussions about the transaction. However  as I said, I hadnt  seen clear or credible 
evidence that the sale was execution  only. And given the circumstances at the time, I 
thought it unlikely it was a truly execution only transaction.  So  I was satisfied the firm was 
obliged to give Mrs H suitable advice. 
Given whats been said and in the circumstances,  I think there is little doubt  that Lowes 
didnt follow  the appropriate advice process  in place at that time. However, the compliance 
process itself is a means to an end. Ultimately  its in place  to ensure that a firm gives  
suitable advice.  This is whats key. And effectively what the regulators pension  review 
sought to determine. So although there  is only limited contemporaneous  evidence,  and I 
think its likely the firm failed to follow the appropriate advice process itself, Im satisfied there 
is sufficient evidence to enable me to assess the suitability of the transfer taking  the relevant 
circumstances into account  from the time. 
Mr H said I havent following the accepted  wisdom  that the starting  point for a transfer  from a 
defined benefit  scheme to a defined contribution was unsuitable.  As I said in my provisional 
decision, Im bound to consider the matter against  the standards  and expectations that were 
relevant at the time of the transfer (1989). And there was no starting point that a transfer was 
Ref: DRN94566134unsuitable. Even if that had been  the case, as it is today, each transfer needs to be 
considered on its own merits   its not the case that all transfers from defined benefit 
schemes are unsuitable. But as I said, a transfer  from a defined benefits scheme to a 
scheme where the benefits depend on the fund value and annuity rates at retirement present 
the same  risks now in terms of loss of guarantees as they did in 1989. However the extent  of 
the risks have become more sharply  into focus since 1989,  in particular because of the 
significant fall in annuity rates.
The OPS  guarantees include those described by Mr H, such  as the obligations  on the 
sponsoring employer and the protections offered by the scheme;  revaluation in times  of high 
interest rates, employer  support  and dependent's benefits. I have taken all this into account 
in assessing the suitability  of the transfer.
Mrs H was transferring from a largely guaranteed scheme to one where the level of benefits 
was subject to risk  with the underlying guarantee provided by the GMP. As I said in my 
provisional decision, suitability was still assessed in the same  manner;  degree  of risk being 
one of the factors to take into account.  
Mrs H was transferring benefits  representing just over three years of service  in her former 
OPS. The section 32 plan did guarantee to provide at least  a pension  of £1,099 per year. 
Mr H has said the Actuary says the non-GMP pension would have revalued in line with 
section 52A orders and would  be of the order £700 a year with fixed annual increases. 
In my provisional decision I assumed the non-GMP pension revalued  in the with LPI (Limited 
Price Index)  and might be about £1,800 at retirement date. Whats key is how the transaction  
would have been considered at the time. And given all the evidence  provided, Im satisfied it 
would have appeared to have presented a viable financial proposition in itself.
However, as Mr H has said,  thats  not the only factor to take into account; it needs to be 
considered in the context of Mrs Hs particular circumstances. 
In my provisional decision I said that I understood Mrs H had another small deferred final 
salary pension at the time of the transfer (when  Mrs H first complained to the firm she 
referred to transferring another  final salary pension scheme from a different employer). 
However I apologise that my understanding was incorrect. But this doesnt  materially affect 
my assessment of Mrs H circumstances at the time. Mrs H was in her early thirties and in 
employment. There would have been a reasonable expectation that she would accrue 
further pension  provision prior to her reaching retirement age. So it wasnt likely she  was  
risking all the pension  that she would be relying on for an income in retirement.  
For the detailed  reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied that the transfer 
would have appeared to have been  a reasonable financial  proposition  at the time.  And I 
think it presented a viable opportunity to improve on the benefits that would otherwise have 
been provided from the OPS. 
So taking everything into account, including the guarantees that Mrs H was giving up in the 
OPS; the nature of the section 32 plan and the minimum guaranteed income it provided; and 
the financial viability of the transfer given Mrs Hs particular  circumstances  as I described, I 
think the transfer would have appeared to have presented limited risk.  So  overall, in the 
context of the degree of risk that the transfer  presented in Mrs Hs particular circumstances, 
Im not persuaded that the transfer  was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN94566135I have taken into account what Mr H has said about the errors in law in my provisional 
decision including that it falls foul of the Wednesbury Principles. However I dont agree with 
his conclusions, and Im satisfied my decision is reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr H has expressed  concerns about  the change in the adjudicators conclusions on his 
complaint; he originally said he thought it should  be upheld, but then changed his opinion  on 
the key issue. It does sometime happen that an adjudicator changes their opinion  on a case.  
There may be a number of reasons for that. However once  a case is passed  to an 
ombudsman to consider,  its the ombudsman who has statutory powers to make a final 
determination on a complaint. The ombudsman  considers all the evidence and arguments 
afresh, as I can confirm I have done here.  The adjudicators change of opinion (or the 
reasons for it) hasnt had any impact  on my decision not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94566136Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs H has complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer benefits  from her occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a section 32 plan. She says she has lost out financially as a result of the 
advice. 
background
Mrs H transferred her pension to the section 32 plan in 1989. Lowes  has said it hasnt got any 
documentation relating to the transaction because Mrs H was working for it at the time and it was 
arranged on an execution only basis. Its said Mrs H received the associated commission from it. 
The section 32 plan policy documents show that:
Mrs H was in her early thirties at the time
She was a member of the OPS for just over three years  leaving it in September 1988
The transfer value was £3,037.50
The GMP (Guaranteed Minimum Pension) at retirement  date was £1,099
The Date  of Policy was 4 August 1989.
Under the heading Definitions  the policy  document said:
Maximum Pension
{a} At the Benefit Date and at any Substitute  Benefit  Date earlier than the Benefit Date £641.97 per 
annum increased by the greater of 5% per annum compound and the accumulated increase in the 
Retail Price Index during the period between the date of leaving service  and the Benefit Date or 
Substitute Benefit Date.
The illustration from the time of the transfer shows that the estimated  pensions payable from the 
section 32 plan at age 60 were £2,130 and £7,730 based on investment returns  of 8.5% and 13% 
respectively.
Mrs H has said that as she was approaching  her selected retirement  date in 2017 and made enquiries 
about her plan she was alerted that its value wasnt sufficient to buy the GMP.    Mrs H complained to 
Lowes that the plan had been miss-sold.  In response, Lowes said that it hadnt given any advice  to 
Mrs H. It said that Mrs H had acted of her own accord in 1989 and that it had simply facilitated the 
transfer. Lowes didnt uphold  the complaint.
One of our adjudicators  issued an assessment of the merits of the complaint.  He thought  the 
complaint should be upheld. He said that as the firm had failed to review the transaction  as part of the 
regulators pension review as it had been  required  to do, it should review the transaction now. And he 
recommended that the firm should undertake a redress calculation in line with the methodology 
outlined in the regulators  updated guidance. 
He subsequently issued  a further  view amending his earlier  findings. He said that following further 
discussions with colleagues his view was that the advice  wasnt inherently  unsuitable in Mrs Hs 
circumstances. But given that Lowes  hadnt undertaken the pension  review and had also failed  to 
retain adequate records, he recommended that Lowes should pay Mrs H £300 for the trouble and 
upset that not dealing with the matter at the appropriate time had caused.  
Mrs H, through her representative Mr H, didnt accept the adjudicators assessment (for ease I will 
refer to all submissions including those  made by Mrs H as by Mr H). He made a number of points 
which I have considered in full. 
Ref: DRN94566137Lowes Financial Management Limited  also didnt  accept it. It also made  a number  of points which I 
have also considered in full.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Lowes has said that the sale was execution-only  and thats  the reason  it didnt retain  any records of it. 
Its also said Mrs H probably benefitted from the commission resulting from the sale;  albeit its been 
unable to provide any contemporaneous documentary  evidence in support of this. 
Point 211 of The Securities and Investment Board  (SIB) guidance for the pension review published  in 
October 1994 (Pension Transfers and Opt Outs Review  of Past Business)  provided:
Execution only cases/Insistent  customers
Where records  indicate  that a transfer was arranged  on an execution only basis or effected upon the 
investors insistence  despite advice to the contrary, the firm should seek fresh corroboration on that 
point unless there is clear  and credible evidence on file such as a letter in the investors own hand. 
It went onto say, under  Execution  Only cases:
310 - Execution Only  refers to investors who request a transfer  and where no advice or judgement 
on the part of the firm was expected  or given. 
311- Most  transfers requiring  review  will need to satisfy all four tests outlined in paragraph 305 above 
except that for execution-only cases only the final test - namely ensuring that the sales literature 
projections and what the salesperson said were not misleading  is relevant.
312 - Having  said this, it is essential to collect sufficient evidence to confirm  that the case  really  was 
execution only. It will be necessary to confirm a transaction was execution  only by contacting the 
investor directly unless there is clear  and credible  evidence - for example a letter  in the investors own 
hand  already on file which makes contact the investor unnecessary.
313  If the sale is confirmed as execution-only  basis, either by contacting the investor  or from clear  
and credible evidence on file, and the sale also meets  the fourth testthen no further action is 
required. Investors should be notified of the results of the review in the normal way., 
No clear or credible  evidence has been provided to show that the sale was execution only.  And even 
if the sale was an execution only sale it needed to be reviewed  to determine as such and the outcome 
of the review sent to Mrs H. Im not aware  that such a latter was sent.  Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that the sale was reviewed appropriately  as required  whether  execution only or not. 
However, whilst I understand Mrs Hs frustration  about  the lack of records kept by the firm and its 
failure to review the transaction, its not my role to regulate firms and I have no powers to fine or 
punish them.  My role here is to assess all the evidence  that is available, along  with all the arguments 
made to decide what I think is fair and reasonable. Although there is a lack of contemporaneous  
evidence (which would clearly be helpful),  I think there is enough  factual evidence to enable a 
reasonable assessment of the merits of the transfer.
Mrs H was employed in an administrative role with the firm. Although she had worked at other 
financial firms my understanding is this had been in similar roles. A pension transfer from a defined  
benefits scheme isnt a straightforward transaction. And I dont think its the type of transaction  that 
most ordinary  investors would  think about arranging  without some prompting from elsewhere. They 
dont have the necessary skills and experience  to weigh  up all the different  aspects of such a transfer 
in order to decide whether  its worthwhile. 
Ref: DRN94566138In these circumstances, I think  its more  likely than not that the transfer was initiated by Lowes. It 
hasnt retained records showing it was execution only or been  able to provide any persuasive 
evidence that it was a truly execution only sale (i.e. Mrs H merely instructed it to process  the 
transaction). And Mrs H has said it wasnt  execution  only. In this context, Im satisfied that Lowes 
should have ensured the transfer was suitable  for Mrs Hs circumstances at the time.
A deferred benefits statement isnt available. This would  have showed the benefits that Mrs H had 
accrued in the OPS  when  she left it.  We have asked the OPS administrators for scheme information  
but they have been unable to provide  a copy.  So I dont currently know the exact details of the 
pension that Mrs H was giving up when she transferred  her benefits.  We do have the policy 
documents and some other information from the pension  provider. So Ive made  several assumptions 
in order to estimate the likely pension that Mrs H might have received if shed  remained a member of 
her OPS.
There is a document on file that was completed at the time of the transfer which records Mrs Hs 
employment details. It states that Mrs Hs final remuneration at the date she left the OPS as defined in 
the schemes rules was £9,486. Mrs H has subsequently said her salary was around £12,500 at date 
of leaving. 
The policy document refers  to a pension of £641 (as I have  quoted above). This is the figure  used to 
calculate the Inland Revenue maximum pension  that could be paid from the section  32 plan. So I 
think this figure is likely  to be the pension  that Mrs H had accrued at the date that she left the OPS (or 
the leaving pension with one years  revaluation as at the date the section 32 plan started). Either  way, 
this £641 figure is broadly consistent with a pension calculated using a leaving salary  of around 
£12,500 in a 60ths scheme. The lower salary would  suggest  a pension  of around £500,  however I 
currently think  the higher  £641 is more likely in the circumstances.
We know that the GMP of £156 revalued to £1,099 by Mrs Hs normal retirement date. This meant it 
had been revalued for 27 years to reach this figure.
If the GMP of £156 at date of leaving  is deducted  from the £641 figure, this leaves an excess pension 
of £485. The policy document refers  to Inland Revenue maximum pensions  and how that was 
calculated. OPS  schemes dont usually  mirror Inland Revenue maximums.  In my experience  the 
most commonly used method to revalue  the excess pension from date of leaving up until retirement  
date is something called  LPI. This is the change in the Retail Price Index  (RPI) up to a maximum  of 
5%. 
So if the 5% maximum is used to revalue  the £485, this provides a pension at age 60 of about  £1,810.  
This is again using the 27 years, albeit the period used might be a years different for excess pension. 
But given there is some uncertainty in any event  I think its a reasonable  assumption.
So I think at the time that the transfer  was arranged  in 1989, a reasonable estimate of the maximum 
benefits payable  form the OPS at age 60 would have been the £1,810 plus the £1,099 - £2,909. 
. 
The illustration from the time of the transfer shows that the estimated  pensions payable from the 
section 32 plan at age 60 were £2,130 and £7,730 based on investment returns  of 8.5% and 13% 
respectively. These were  the returns  the regulator required firms to use in 1989. So I think  the hurdle 
rate that Mrs H has referred to would sit comfortably between  the 8.5 and 13%. 
However the illustration for the section 32 plan was based on a pension  which was level in payment 
(apart from the GMP accrued after April 1988 which is only a very small proportion of the total).  
Whereas the OPS would  have provided  a pension  that increased in payment. I think the illustration 
does provide for a spouses benefit as this is a section 32 plan. And this is consistent  with the notes 
section and widowers  pension quoted.
Ref: DRN94566139So its not possible to make a direct comparison  of the possible benefits from the OPS with those  of 
the section 32 plan in the illustration. However,  even making an allowance for these  factors (that the 
illustrated figures would be proportionally lower),  there was still sufficient headroom  to find that the 
transfer (considered in isolation), would have appeared to have presented a reasonable financial 
proposition at the time that it was arranged.
However, a transfer  also needs to be considered  in the context of the clients  wider circumstances to 
gauge the degree of risk that it represents. This will involve an assessment of a number of different  
competing factors.  But as an example, someone younger transferring a smaller  amount of pension is 
taking less risk than someone approaching retirement  date transferring a significant pension (all other 
things being equal). 
Mrs H has referred  to various statements made by the regulator that advisers should consider the 
starting point  for pension transfers as being that they arent suitable. And that most consumers would 
be best advised  to remain with their OPS. 
I think  the regulators current view is clear. But I also think it shows that the merits of a transfer 
depend on the particular  circumstances surrounding it. It hasnt said that all transfers are unsuitable. 
And I think whats key here is that the suitability  of the transaction  has to be considered in the context 
of what  was considered  reasonable at the time that the advice was given. It shouldnt be considered 
with the benefit of hindsight or against rules and or guidance  that wasnt applicable at the time.  
The SIB Pension Transfers and Opt Outs  Review of Past Business Statement of Policy (Part  1) from 
October 1994 included the following:
There is reason  to expect pension transfers to be neutral or advantageous for many of those who 
have undertaken them: transfer values,  which are intended to represent the cash  equivalent of the 
occupational scheme benefits forgone, have  usually  been calculated by reference to the yield from 
fixed interest stocks, but when taken into a personal  pension contract  they are usually  invested in 
equity-based funds which are generally expected to outperform fixed interest stocks  over the longer 
run. SIS therefore intends firms to focus on those cases where there is reason  to anticipate  an 
appreciable likelihood  of loss. The likelihood of loss is largely related to the proximity  of the investor  to 
retirement at the time of transfer.
So there was no automatic  presumption that transfers were generally unsuitable at the time.  
A transfer from a defined benefits scheme to a scheme where the benefits  depend on the fund value  
and annuity rates at retirement present the same risks now in terms of loss of guarantees as they did 
in 1989. So suitability was still assessed in the same  manner; degree of risk being  one of the most 
significant factors to take into account. However,  investment returns that might be considered 
unrealistic in todays context might have been considered  reasonable at the time.  And the degree to 
which annuity  rates have fallen wasnt reasonably  expected in 1989.
Mr H has referred  to the section 32 plan achieving annual returns  of around 32.75%. And has said 
that the investment return required to provide  equivalent benefits to the OPS  was somewhere 
between the mid-teens to mid twenty per cent per annum. This isnt consistent  with my understanding 
of the pension Mrs H was entitled to and the benefits payable by the section 32 plan as outlined 
above. Mrs H has the opportunity to provide clarification  in response to this provisional decision if I am 
misunderstanding. 
My understanding is that the transfer value was around £3,037 and this had grown to around £32,000 
by 2017. Thats an average annual  compound return net of charges of around 9%. Whilst  it may not 
have grown  as much  as hoped for, the fund was in excess of the £24,400 potential  fund shown in the 
illustration at the lower rate of 8.5%.  However the significant  reduction in annuity rates since the time 
of the transfer has had a material impact on the overall benefits provided by the section 32. 
Mrs H was in her early thirties at the time and she was in employment.  There  would have been a 
reasonable expectation that she would  accrue further pension provision prior to her reaching 
Ref: DRN945661310retirement age. And my understanding is that she had another small  deferred final salary pension 
from another employment. So it wasnt likely  she was risking all the pension that she would  be relying 
on for an income in retirement.  
The section 32 plan did guarantee to provide  at least the £1,099. And so the actual pension put at risk 
was around £1,800 (as could be reasonably assumed at the time). Although the investment returns  
needed to match the OPS may seem high by todays standards, I think they would have appeared  
realistically achievable at the time. As part of the pension review the regulator provided  a table of 
returns that could be used to assess the financial  viability of a transfer. Given  the time of transfer and 
the term to retirement, the rate for Mrs Hs transfer was 12.6%. This would  have been projected to 
provide a single life pension towards the £7,730 figure.
So taking all the above into account, I think the transfer would have appeared to present a reasonable 
opportunity to improve on the benefits that would otherwise have been provided  from the OPS. And in 
the context  of the degree of risk that it presented in Mrs Hs particular circumstances, overall, Im not 
currently persuaded that the transfer  was unsuitable. 
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold  the complaint.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9456613