K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 when Mrs T was applying for a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mrs T if she couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs Ts needs?
- Did Halifax  give Mrs T the information  she needed to decide  whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mrs 
T is worse  off as a result. That is, would  she have done something different  such  as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint  and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mrs T says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the mortgage she wanted,  and that 
Halifax didnt give her a proper choice. Ive noted everything Mrs T has said.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation  from the point of sale.  Thats  not surprising, as 
its many  years since the policy was sold. And its similar to some  other  cases  Ive seen.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs T and Halifax 
when the policy was sold. For me to decide that Halifax didnt make Mrs T aware  she had a 
choice, Id have  to conclude that this was more likely that not.
Without anything  else to support what Mrs T has told me, it seems  it couldve been just as 
likely that Halifax made Mrs T aware  the PPI was optional and she chose  to take it out.
Ref: DRN96206882Overall, I havent been able to safely conclude that Halifax didnt make  Mrs T aware that she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
Halifax accepts that it probably advised  Mrs T to take out the policy  and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mrs T was eligible  for the policy given  her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mrs T says she wasnt entitled to sick pay from her employer, but that she had some 
savings she couldve used if she couldnt work because of sickness  or accident. 
Having the policy  in place wouldve meant Mrs T couldve used her savings to cover 
other expenses.  So I think she wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her 
existing arrangements. 
- Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys main  benefits, 
such as those  affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better  advice or information about  the policys  exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mrs T before 
she agreed to buy it. But Mrs T took out the policy  knowing  she would have to pay 
something for it. It seems  the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs T would have made  a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs T would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  she 
would still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9620688