K820x#14Complaint
Mr M and Miss B complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy which they say was sold to them  in 1987. 
The mortgage and MPPI have  long since been  closed and Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Leeds (then Halifax),  is now responsible for answering the complaint. 
Ill mainly refer to Halifax  throughout this decision, to keep things simple.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr M and Miss B its 
unlikely to be upheld.  They disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt  Mr M and Miss B genuinely  and 
honestly feel the MPPI was mis-sold to them. Their main point of complaint seems  to be 
that the cover was added  without their consent and it wasnt  something  they needed.
However, theres very little information  to go on. We have no documents  from the sale 
although I see Halifax has recovered  certain  basic computerised records which  have limited  
details on them. Given the length  of time involved this isnt unusual, or indeed  unreasonable 
as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. Ive also used my knowledge of 
these cases to help me think  about  what happened.
Even though  Mr M and Miss B are adamant they were mis-sold  MPPI at the same time they 
took their mortgage  out, in 1987,  they themselves havent got any records  of this either. On 
the other hand,  the computer records do show they were sold MPPI  covering Mr M only, in 
January 1991,  when  their mortgage had already  been up and running   presumably without 
MPPI  for some years. We do often see sale like this, typically as a result of more  
borrowing or a financial  review of some  kind. 
So, whilst after 30 or so years, I can only really  say what is the more likely scenario, it does 
look more likely that this MPPI was added to a mortgage that had been running for some  4 
years. Mr M and Miss B would  have  known therefore that MPPI wasnt  a requirement. They  
would have been able to see a new policy been  added in 1991  and they would have also 
needed to authorise the £18 per month premium for the policy leaving their bank account. I 
also note that only Mr M was covered on the policy. From that, I think its much  more likely 
that their financial situation  was discussed during the 1991 sale process  and they chose to 
have him covered because it suited their needs of that time. 
In short,  I think they agreed to the policy and did so knowing it was optional:  I think  it was 
something they wanted to have.
Ref: DRN96681812Halifax concedes it would  have probably recommended the MPPI as part of an advised 
sale. This means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. I think  it was. 
I say this because  Mr M appears to have been  eligible  for the cover  and not caught  by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these  policies. Ive seen nothing  that suggests  
it wasnt affordable for them. Mr M and Miss B implied they didnt need  the cover  because 
they also had sickness protection with their jobs. Ive thought  very carefully  about this, but it 
doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable.  The mortgage was secured  against their home and so 
the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have  been  serious.  In 
the event of a successful  claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months and this would 
have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the time. 
So, although  I cant say why they decided  to buy this policy  for Mr M, I dont think it being  
recommended to them was unreasonable. I think it was a suitable product for their 
consideration.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant confirm  whether Halifax did everything right after so long, but having 
discussed the cover I think Mr M and Miss B would have been given the supporting  
literature explaining the policy rules. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M and Miss B but I dont find anything that supports their 
complaint that this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr M and Miss Bs complaint. 
I dont direct Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668181