K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained about three instalment  loans  he took out with Elevate Credit International 
Limited (trading as Sunny). 
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Sunny had told us about these loans. 
Overall, she thought that the checks Sunny had carried out before giving Mr R the loans 
were proportionate. Taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didnt think  it 
wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount  of information needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable. So she didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
Mr R mainly says that given other payday loans he was struggling to repay, which wouldve 
been visible on his credit report, Sunny shouldnt  have offered additional loans beyond the 
first one.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide  this 
complaint.
Sunny provided  Mr R with high-interest  loans intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed 
to make sure that it didnt  provide  them  irresponsibly. 
Sunny was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr R before providing  it. Our website sets out what  we typically  
think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr R took out a first instalment loan for £400  in June 2016. The loan was to be repaid over a 
period of around six months with a monthly repayment of about  £110. In the first week  of 
August 2016 he took out a second loan, this time for £100, also due to be repaid by six 
monthly repayments of around £30. He took out a third loan for £50 in September  2016  
again, repayable in six monthly instalments of about  £16.
Ref: DRN96165832I understand that Mr R hasnt repaid  these  loans. 
Sunny says it agreed to Mr Rs application  after carrying  out eligibility, creditworthiness  and 
affordability checks. And it relied  on information Mr R provided about his monthly  income 
and expenditure  as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies.  It says the 
information Mr R provided showed  that hed be able to comfortably make the loan 
repayments. And in these  circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr R and Sunny have said. 
If I understand Mr R correctly, I think he accepts that Sunny wasnt  wrong to lend him loan 1 
 and I agree. This was his first loan with Sunny  and so I think Sunny was entitled to rely 
on the information Mr R provided. This suggested  that he was well able to afford this 
borrowing as hed said his monthly income  was more than £4,000 and his expenses  about 
£2,000. 
I can see that he took out the second  and third loans before hed paid off any of his previous 
borrowing with Sunny. But I dont think that alone  was sufficient to make Sunny think  that it 
shouldnt have kept lending to Mr R. And I note that he seems  to have made his repayments 
to his loans on time,  until shortly after taking out his third.
The second  and third loans were for decreasing amounts. The information provided 
suggests that Mr R was asked to provide  details  of his income and expenditure. Bearing in 
mind the amount of the total monthly  repayment he had to make for all his loans, the 
questions Sunny asked Mr R and that these were Mr Rs first three loans, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the level of information Mr R was providing.
Im sorry  that Mr R was struggling financially and that repaying  these loans  has proved 
difficult. I accept that in reality Mr Rs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected  
either in the information he provided, or the other  information Sunny says it obtained. Sunny 
hasnt provided  the results of its credit checks nor has Mr B provided a copy  of his credit file 
or his bank statements. So I cant say for sure what Sunny might have seen on the credit  
checks it says it carried  out.  
But its reasonable to expect that Sunny couldve only decided  Mr Rs lending  applications  
based on the information it had available at the time.  And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Sunny to ask Mr R to prove  
what he was declaring or check  other information  sources to verify  what  he had told them (or 
omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to safely say a lender did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think  that Sunny did anything wrong in deciding  to lend to 
Mr R. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr R has said, including 
the comments made in response to our adjudicators  view. I appreciate he feels  strongly 
about this complaint. I understand  that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. In my 
decision Ive dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome  of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
Ref: DRN96165833Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mr R has lost out as a result of anything  Sunny 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9616583