K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that items she acquired through a fixed  sum loan agreement with Hitachi  
Capital (UK) Plc were  not of satisfactory quality. 
background
Ms M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in August 2018  to acquire items 
of furniture. She says that as soon as the single sofa was delivered  she contacted the 
retailer to say the stitching wasnt right and that quality wasnt  as good as her other sofa. 
Ms M says the fabric on her sofas  hasnt been stretched properly and it has left air pockets. 
She says she wants to return the sofas.
Hitachi says that an inspection was carried and that no manufacturing  faults were found.  It 
says that the onus  was now on Ms M to provide evidence  of a manufacturing fault with the 
sofas.
Our investigator said, given the inspection report findings, he was unable to say that Hitachi 
had acted unfairly.
Ms M didnt accept our investigators view and so this complaint has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ms M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi to acquired items  of furniture. 
Under the regulations, Hitachi can be held liable if the items provided  were not of satisfactory 
quality.
Given when Ms M raised her concerns I accept that she believes the sofas not to be of the 
quality she expected. Ms M has provided  photographs of the items she acquired and noted 
issues with the stitching and the fabric not being  properly stretched and filled.  I have looked 
at the photographs provided.  
However I have to consider all the evidence provided. I can see that Mr Ms photographs 
show creasing of the fabric, however I also note what the order confirmation  says about 
natural characteristics and that the seat foams soften and relax  with use. 
Given Ms Ms concerns  I find it reasonable that an inspection was carried out and I have 
placed weight  on this report. The report says that the items inspected both had some 
creasing in the fabric but that this was due to the type of fabric.  No issues were  noted in 
regard to the stitching. The report didnt find that there were any faults  with the items.  
Without further evidence to the contrary I do not find I can say that there were faults with the 
sofas.
Ref: DRN93857692On balance, while I understand  that Ms M is disappointed with the items she has received, I 
do not find that I have  enough evidence to say they are not of satisfactory quality. Because 
of this I do not uphold this complaint.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9385769