K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that Santander UK Plc cant locate an account.
background
Due to his personal circumstances Mr B says he hasnt had any interaction  with his accounts  
since 1996. He says no one had his permission to close an account  or take the money in it. 
He wants answers about what  happened  or a refund  of his money. He says he cant accept 
the account is closed and the money gone.
Santander said in its final response that itd previously advised  Mr B that the account had 
been closed but there  are now no details for it. The reports it submitted to HMRC show this 
account didnt  feature  from or after 2000 which indicates it was closed before then. Its 
records also dont show the account  was open in 2002. The fact Mr B has an un-cancelled 
passbook for this account doesnt prove any money  remains outstanding as transactions  
may be permitted without it. But it has found another  of Mr Bs accounts  which  is still open 
and dormant.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Mr B would like Santander to provide evidence about whats  happened. But banks 
arent required to keep such records indefinitely. Normally theyre  kept for six years. 
So its not inappropriate that it cant supply information on this account. 
From  the evidence Santander  has supplied its done everything it can to trace this 
account. And if it was still open  it would have been located.  Its archived data also 
indicates the account was closed some time ago and before it produced  an annual 
report to HMRC in 2000. 
On balance, although she understands Mr Bs frustration, it seems the account was 
legitimately closed  before 2000. If it remained open  it would now show  as a dormant 
account. But it doesnt. 
Santander has tried its reasonable best to locate the account  and it hasnt on balance 
made a mistake.  She cant ask it to do any more.
Mr B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says Santander  says 
the account was open  to 2000  but due to his personal circumstances hes been  unable to 
interact with his accounts since 1996.  He can prove he didnt  have any post about the 
account since 1996. If the account was closed and the money taken  out it was without  his 
authority. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ref: DRN90185972I think Santander has done all it reasonably  can to try to trace  any record  of Mr Bs account. 
But the information available is very limited which isnt surprising given the time that has 
gone by. Santander also isnt required to keep records indefinitely  and banks normally hold 
information for about six years. 
The limited  information  Santander has been  able to locate shows  this account wasnt 
apparently open  in 2000 when it submitted a report to HMRC. This account also doesnt  
appear to be a dormant  one in Santanders  current records. I think  its therefore reasonable 
to conclude on balance  that the account  was closed  some time before 2000.
I understand Mr Bs frustration at the lack of information or explanation about the account 
closure not least as he says he didnt close it and given that his personal circumstances 
have prohibited him from interacting with his accounts from 1996.
Even so, I dont think I can, on the available evidence reasonably conclude that Santander 
has done anything  wrong or require it to now do any more.
Overall, although I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling and frustration, I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9018597