K822xcomplaint
Mrs M has complained that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly automatically renewed  her 
pet policy for many years, when  she knew  nothing about it. Mrs M is represented by her 
husband Mr M.
background 
Mr M noticed a direct  debit in his bank statement that he didnt recognise in September 
2018. His direct debits usually went through another bank account. The reference  for it was 
UKI. It transpired it was for a pet policy taken out since  2002. Mr M said they dont buy pet 
insurance (as a rule) but this was in his wifes  name for a cat they had had. He said his cat 
was quite old in 2004 and anyway was put to sleep in 2011. 
He said Mrs M didnt  remember taking  this policy out and he had never  received any renewal 
invitations or notifications. It was thought UKI was sending these to an address Mr M had 
possibly never lived at. It also seemed the last contact UKI said it had with Mrs M was in 
2005. Mr M said they had moved house twice  since 2005 and they always  had post 
redirected for 12 months on each occasion.
Mr M thought UKI should refund all premiums it took from the time he moved to his current  
address, which  was in 2007. UKI said it would  refund all premiums  from when his cat was 
put to sleep on proof of that, which Mr M said was 2011.
Mr M remained dissatisfied and brought his wifes complaint to us. The investigator initially  
upheld it on the basis at that time there was no evidence from UKI that it generated renewal 
letters. She thought  UKI should  refund the premiums to Mr M from 2006.
The UKI showed renewal  letters were generated,  which showed  they were  probably sent 
out. So then, the investigator thought UKI only needed to refund premiums since 2011 when 
his cat was put to sleep, which UKI had told Mr M it was willing to do before  he brought his 
complaint to us.
Mr M disagreed. He said, as he received no correspondence from UKI, it was impossible for 
him to tell it about  any change of address. Since UKI said it had returned mail it sent to him, 
he thought it would have been better  if it had tried to make  contact with Mrs M, rather than 
simply renewing a policy for 13 years  with no contact with its policyholder.
On this basis, Mrs Ms complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 March and said the following:
There was initially a lot of discrepancy and confusion over the original address UKI 
had on its screenshots  showing the address of Mr and Mrs M when they took out the 
policy, as Mr M said when  he was talking to UKI in September 2018, it got his house  
name wrong  by one word. It does though appear, it was their address at the time, as 
Mr M has now confirmed  he was living  at the address UKI had, at the time this policy  
was taken out. Mr M said every time he moved  house, (and he moved at least  twice 
since 2002)  he used the postal redirect service for 12 months which  redirects all mail 
to the new address. He said he never  received any renewal invitations  or notifications 
from UKI about this policy.
Ref: DRN92084112However, UKIs records show that the policyholder (obviously Mrs M) contacted it on 
6 December 2005 to cancel the policy. It then shows the policyholder contacted  it 
again on 19 December  2005 to retain the policy for just one cat. So Im satisfied that 
up to at least December  2005, (which incidentally is around the annual renewal date) 
Mrs M was aware of this policy, what it was and indeed which  animal it was providing 
cover for. 
There no other details other  than this. Theres also no call recordings either, which I 
dont find unreasonable given the passage of time. Also, there are no transcripts,  just 
simply the few lines on the screen  shots  denoting Mrs Ms contact,  as Ive detailed  
above. Thereafter,  the policy continued  just providing cover for this one cat as Mrs M 
had requested.
UKI has shown me satisfactorily that it at least generated its renewal invitations to 
Mrs M each  year. Therefore on balance, Im satisfied  those  renewal invitations  were 
posted out. Additionally Im satisfied that Mrs M was getting them up to December  
2005. Whilst I do understand  Mr M said on moving house, he always  used the postal 
redirect service,  I cant make UKI responsible for any failings in the postal redirect 
service. That would be neither fair nor reasonable. It, like most things, isnt infallible. 
Im satisfied that perhaps Mr M didnt know of this policy but Im also satisfied Mrs M 
did. It is reasonable in my view that its the policyholders duty to inform UKI of any 
change of address  too, which obviously didnt happen here. 
UKIs screen  shots then show post addressed to Mrs M was first returned  to it on 6 
December 2011  and then again on 12 December 2015 and on 6 January 2016.  It 
doesnt show any contact  at all from Mrs M since December  2005. It also shows no 
other efforts by UKI in trying to contact  Mrs M otherwise from 6 December 2011,  
once the post it sent to her was returned.
UKI confirmed Mrs M took this policy out on line in 2002. If thats  the case, I consider 
it would  have had some email address for Mrs M in order for it to confirm  to her, that 
the application was successful at the time and to await receipt of the policy  
documents by post. However,  we know very little of what  Mrs Ms application journey 
on line was in 2002. Again, I dont think thats unreasonable  given the passage  of 
time. But, I do think it would have had an email address and/or a phone number too 
at that time. It doesnt appear  thats  retained  on its screenshots but Ive difficulty  in 
understanding how Mrs Ms application  on line would have been satisfactorily 
completed without UKI at least knowing her email address. 
I also think its unreasonable for UKI to fail to make any other contact  with a 
policyholder once post has been returned  as undeliverable, but yet still continue to 
collect premiums.  Once post in returned in this way, its perfectly obvious the 
policyholder is not getting any renewal invitations  or notifications of increased 
premiums so I think efforts at alternative  contact  with the policyholder such  as Mrs M 
here, would have been more reasonable.
Ref: DRN92084113UKIs reconstituted renewal invitations (since  it doesnt  retain copies of the actual 
letters inviting renewals  sent to its customers)  show  this cat to be aged 23 years 2 
months old on 2 November 2018.  I cant  see on any of its screen  shots, where it 
knows the date of birth of the animal  its insuring, but obviously  its there  somewhere 
in its system, if its reconstituted renewals give the age of the animal. So obviously,  
this cat was born in 1995. At the time the policy was taken out, she would have been 
seven years old. By 2005, she would have been  around 10 years  old and Mr M said 
she was put to sleep in 2011, which would have been when she was aged 16. (The 
vet evidence shows his cat was put to sleep on 16 January 2012). Thats  a pretty 
good age for a cat. Most might not make  it that far. 
Its also clear  when  this policy was taken out, it properly  and clearly  says it auto-
renews every year. Mrs M obviously got something concerning the policy as she 
phoned up twice  in December 2005, three  years  after taking the policy out. So Im 
satisfied up to that point, Mrs M at least knew she had this policy  and was receiving 
its annual renewal invitations. 
Whilst auto-renewal is a good element of customer care for pet policies (especially  
ones for the life of the pet, which this one isnt), there must come a point  where its 
plainly irrational to keep auto-renewing a pet policy, given  most dogs and cats 
wouldnt normally live much longer than around  12 to 15 years of age, or so. It also 
doesnt appear that UKI has any checks for that. Instead, it merely relies  on the 
policyholder informing it when the pet has died, so that the policy can then be 
cancelled at that time.
So in my view, as UKI knows the date of birth of the animal but that doesnt show on 
its screen shots, I think likewise it must have had an email address and/or a phone 
number for Mrs M at the time she applied  for this policy. And I think it ought to have  
made some effort to contact Mrs M by some means  other than post when it first 
received the returned post.
Had that been earlier than 6 December  2011,  I would have been  asking UKI to 
refund premiums from that earlier date. Unfortunately for Mr M, the date UKIs  
system shows  the date it first received the returned post is almost the same month as 
when his cat was put to sleep.
Consequently, as UKI initially  offered  refund premiums from almost this date, and 
although Im upholding Mr Ms complaint, its not in effect making much difference to 
the extent of the refund of premiums, Im intending to award.
Mr M remained disappointed as he felt UKI should  have actually made some contact with 
Mrs M over the years. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN92084114my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M is disappointed and that he noted  Mrs M did try to cancel the policy 
in 2005, she then decided to carry on with it with just this one cat. So obviously since its 
clear Mrs M wanted to carry on with the policy after she thought  she might cancel it, that 
wouldnt cause UKI to think the policy  wasnt  actually required and wanted by Mrs M.
And as UKI has accepted my provisional  decision,  I see no reason to change  my view on 
this complaint that it should be upheld.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I intend to require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Refund all premiums  taken from 6 December 2011.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date each premium was taken to the 
date of its refund.*
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9208411