K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains Lend Fair Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. She says the loan was unaffordable 
and has caused  her financial detriment in the form of additional interest and charges. 
background
Miss L took out a £4,000  loan from Lend Fair in August 2015.  The loan had 60 monthly 
repayments of £154.58.  
Miss L says this loan was unaffordable to her, and as such Lend Fair acted irresponsibly by 
lending to her. She says at the time of the loan she was in financial difficulties including 
having a number of existing payday loans. 
Lend Fair says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before lending  to Miss L. It 
says it asked for Miss Ls income  and expenditure and verified her income via her payslip.  
Lend Fair said based on this information it recalculated Miss Ls disposable income and was 
satisfied it was sufficient  for Miss L to afford the loan. It also says Miss L took out the loan in 
order to consolidate  her existing payday loan commitments. Lend Fair also says Miss L 
withheld information about her financial situation when making her application. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  He argued 
Lend Fair hadnt completed proportionate checks.  He felt Lend  Fair shouldve conducted 
further checks, and had it done so, it wouldnt have approved  Miss L for a loan. Lend Fair 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings,  so the matter has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint.
Lend Fair needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand 
if any lending was affordable to Miss L. The relevant rules dont set out which specific  
checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks 
could include things  such as a customers income  (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
As Lend Fair gave  Miss L a loan that was to be repaid in instalments, the checks  which  it 
conducted had to provide enough information for it to able to decide if she could afford  the 
monthly payments  when  they became due for the duration of the intended  term. And even if 
reasonable and proportionate checks have been  completed, Lend Fair still has an obligation 
to make sure it doesnt lend irresponsibly to a borrower. 
Lend Fair says it completed an income and expenditure assessment on Miss L, which  
included verifying  this amount against her pay slip. It says it adjusted  her income in light of 
the information it was provided.  This was because Miss Ls declared income was higher than 
Ref: DRN90683722that shown on her payslip.  It says it also took into account the monthly loan repayments    
Miss L was looking to consolidate. After  these calculations it says the loan was still 
affordable to Miss L and on that basis its decision to lend was fair. 
Ive considered what Lend Fair has said about the affordability of the loan based on the 
checks it completed, but ultimately, I disagree  these checks were proportionate  in this 
instance. As Ive explained above it isnt enough for Lend Fair to just complete checks, it still 
needs to consider carefully the information  it is supplied by a borrower  before deciding  to 
lend.
In this instance, based on the information Miss L provided, I dont think Lend Fairs checks 
went far enough. I say this because Miss L had explained she was needing to consolidate  
four existing payday loans with this loan.  This would suggest that she was having to take 
large numbers of short-term loans  and was struggling to meet these commitments. As such  I 
would expect Lend Fair to get a better understanding  of Miss Ls financial circumstances in 
order to assess if it was responsible for it to approve further lending.
In addition to this, Miss L had provided her payslip which showed her income was lower  than 
the declared amount. This should  also have raised  concerns with Lend Fair over the true 
state of Miss Ls financial affairs and ought reasonably to have prompted further checks.
These further checks couldve included checking  Miss Ls credit file or requesting  her bank 
statements. Ive been provided with Miss Ls credit file. Having reviewed this, Im satisfied 
Miss L wouldnt  have  been  able to afford  this loan. Miss Ls credit file shows  that she had a 
number of outstanding credit  commitments,  including a significant debt on a catalogue 
account. It also shows that she had a default on her file (there  is some doubt as to whether a 
second default wouldve reasonably shown up at the time of the application). This paints the 
picture of someone  who wasnt  managing their finances well and unlikely  to have been in a 
position to sustainably repay  any additional borrowing. 
Im satisfied had Lend Fair conducted  these checks it wouldve better understood Miss Ls 
financial situation. Had it done so, I think it wouldve realised Miss Ls financial situation was 
significantly worse than it thought, and that by lending further to her, Lend Fair was unfairly  
increasing her total indebtedness.
Lend Fair has said Miss L was taking the loan out to consolidate her existing  payday  loan 
debts. Whilst that mayve been the case;  the fact Miss L still had substantial debts on her 
catalogue shopping accounts means  that even  with the consolidated monthly payment the 
overall cost of this loan,  it wouldve still unfairly  contributed to her overall  level of 
indebtedness. Again, had Lend Fair conducted  further checks  it ought to have realised this 
too, and declined the application. 
Lend Fair has also said it relied on the information which Miss L provided, and its unfair for 
this service to not take this into account.  Whilst it may have asked Miss L a direct  question, it 
still had information  at its disposal which showed  there could be further issues. Id also 
remind Lend Fair that the regulatory rules in place required it to not proceed  with an 
application where it ought to have realised that the information provided was inaccurate.  
Lend Fair realised  that the income  information  provided was inaccurate and I think  that this 
meant it shouldnt have proceeded with Miss Ls application unless and until her verified 
expenditure showed that she could sustainably make the repayments.
Ref: DRN90683723There was an obligation at the time for Lend Fair to make sure it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks; and in this instance that included, in my opinion,  checking Miss Ls 
credit file or obtaining  bank statements. And as Ive said above, had it done so, it wouldve 
better understood Miss Ls financial situation before deciding  to lend. 
So on that basis, Im satisfied that the decision to lend to Miss L wasnt a fair one as the loan 
was unaffordable to her.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Lend  Fair Ltd to:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Ls account from when it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Miss L has made as a reduction of the principle amount;
If this results in Miss L having  paid more than what she was initially  lent, then any 
extra should  be treated as an overpayment  and refunded to Miss L plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount  from date of payment to date of settlement;
If an outstanding  balance remains on Miss Ls account after all adjustments have 
been made, then Lend Fair Ltd needs to come to suitable repayment  plan with Miss L 
to pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Ls credit file in relation to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lend  fair Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Lend Fair 
Ltd must  give Miss L a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN9068372