K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that House & Home Care  Limited (trading as Immediate Financial) mis-
sold her a debt management plan (DMP) in 2013.
background
Miss D entered  into a DMP in 2013. She says that she was advised  to take out the maximum 
amount on her overdraft  and existing lending and was not tod of the impact the DMP could 
have on her credit file over the following years.
Immediate Financial says that Miss D raised  her complaint in 2013 and that it agreed a 
settlement with her at that time.  
Our investigator explained the rules that set out when we can consider a complaint. One of 
these is that the complaint must be referred this service  within  six months of the final 
response letter. In this case our investigator  noted that although  Immediate Financial sent its 
response in 2013,  this did not contain referral rights to this service and because  of this he 
thought we could consider the merits of this complaint.
There was limited evidence provided for this complaint but our investigator thought  that 
based on the information provided the settlement offered in 2013  (which Miss D accepted)  
was reasonable.
Miss D did not accept our investigators view. She said that although she received some  
money back the issue had already started to affect her credit file. She said that at the time 
she didnt realise  how this would affect  her later life. She said she was not provided with the 
correct advice and was mis-sold the DMP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Limited information has been  provided in 
this case but I find I have enough to make a decision.
This complaint has been raised about a DMP that was provided  in 2013. Miss D has 
confirmed that the issues  she has raised  recently  are the same  as those she raised in 2013. 
Our investigator has explained  that this service  cannot consider all complaints and the rules  
regarding a consumer  having six months  to raise a complaint from when the final response 
has been provided.
In this case the letter addressing Miss Ds concerns was sent in 2013 and a settlement was 
offered at that time and agreed with Miss D. Therefore I think it reasonable to consider this 
as the final response. However, as has been explained this letter did not provide referral 
rights to this service and so Miss D may not have been aware  that she could bring her 
complaint to this service  and the time limits on this. Because of this I have considered  the 
merits of Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D entered  into a DMP. She says she was told at the start that she should take out the 
maximum borrowing on her existing lending.  I do not have a copy  of this call and limited 
information has been provided.  However I have seen a copy  of correspondence from 
October 2013 when  this issue  is addressed.  Immediate Financial says that it has listened to 
Ref: DRN93404612the call Miss D had with the adviser  and she asked  if she could max out her borrowing 
before the DMP started.  Miss D was told she could do what  she wanted.  Because of this 
Immediate Financial partly upheld Miss Ds complaint  at that time.
Based on the above I accept that Miss D was not given helpful advice in regard  to extending 
her borrowing before the DMP started and find it reasonable  that Immediate Financial 
acknowledged this.
In the same  correspondence Immediate Financial says that Miss D was told that her credit  
rating would be adversely  affected. Miss D says that she was not aware of how long her 
credit file would  be affected.  However as I do not have  evidence of what was and wasnt  
discussed at the time the DMP  was set up I can only go on the evidence  I have seen  which 
suggests Miss D was told of the impact on her credit rating.
Immediate Financial offered to refund  Miss D the amount in her settlement account and 
waive the closure fee. Miss D accepted this. Having looked through Miss Ds statements it 
appears that she paid set up fees in the first two months and then payments to her creditors 
of one pound per month. Aside from the set up fees,  Miss P paid one pence  management 
fee each month.
The refund returned Miss Ds payments  less the fees and payment to creditors.  Given 
Miss D entered  into the DMP and was aware  of the set up fees and management fees I find 
it reasonable these  were  not refunded. Likewise payments to her creditors would not be 
refunded given these would  have  reduced  her debt. 
Overall, based on the information I have seen I think the refund provided was fair and do not 
require Immediate Financial to do anything further  in regard to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9340461