K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  overcharged him for 
damage to a car which he returned  at the end of a finance agreement. 
Background
In 2015 Mr F acquired a car funded by a hire purchase agreement with VFS. He voluntarily 
terminated the agreement in the summer  of 2018.   VFS  instructed  its agent to collect the car. 
I gather  this was due to happen on 31 August but the agent  contacted  Mr F and asked  him 
to deliver it to a local dealer. Mr F did so and the car was collected by the agent  some four 
days later.
Mr F took some photographs of the car and also a video. Subsequently Mr F received an 
invoice for damages  to the car for £761.87.  This was reduced after Mr F complained by 
£66.24. He was also charged excess mileage costs, but his complaint regarding this has 
been resolved.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She explained that when a car is returned  
it is inspected using  the British Vehicle Leasing & Rental Association (BVRLA)  guidelines.  
These set out what is, and what is not considered fair wear  and tear.
She noted Mr F had suggested that he didnt  think he should have to pay for damage  as he 
had paid at least  half the amount due under the agreement. She said this wasnt  the case  
and the agreement states that you will be responsible for any damage  to or deterioration of 
the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage 
of the vehicle.
She noted the agent hadnt collected  the car as agreed and while  this was regrettable, she 
didnt think that this demonstrated  that the damage occurred after the car had been left at 
the dealer. She said she had reviewed the photographs and video supplied  by Mr F and 
while they were clear they werent  close-up, so she couldnt see what  wear or damage the 
car may have had. 
She also looked at the inspection report which also had photographs  of the alleged damage  
and concluded  that the charge  made  by VFS was fair. She reviewed the photographs  in 
the report and concluded that in line with the BVRLA  guidelines the various areas  of damage 
exceeded fair wear  and tear.
Mr F didnt  agree and said that our investigator had failed to take into account  that the car 
had been stored at the dealer a for a few days and then driven  50 miles before being 
inspected. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Fs disappointment  at receiving a bill for damages, but I dont consider I 
can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN98643822Firstly, I would reiterate what the investigator has said about Mr Fs liability  for any damage 
which went beyond fair wear and tear. Even though he voluntarily terminated the agreement  
having paid at least half of the sum due it doesnt mean his responsibility is absolved.  The 
extract from the agreement set out above makes that clear.
I have reviewed the report and the photographs and those provided by Mr F along with the 
video. Regrettably the latter dont allow me to evaluate the damaged  areas of the car as they 
are not close up. The photographs from the report do show the various areas of damage in 
some detail and I am satisfied that these exceed fair wear  and tear as set out in the BVRLA  
guidelines. I note Mr F hasnt disputed that in his response to our investigators view letter.
The second  issue  is when  did the damage  occur.  I note with disappointment that the agent 
didnt make the agreed appointment and Mr F wasnt present at the inspection.  I cant hold 
VFS responsible for that, but I do have to consider  if there is any evidence  which  would allow 
me to conclude that all, or some,  of the damage occurred after Mr F left the car with the 
dealer.
I have studied  the report  photographs  and in many instances it is clear that the damage  is 
not recent.  For example, the marks on the four wheels which  had been  scuffed  all show  
signs of age. Several  other areas of damage  all look as if they have been  there  for some  
time. I also have to think if it is likely that the damage happened  during the three years Mr F 
had the car or in the few days between him leaving it at the dealer and it being inspected. 
Unless there is compelling evidence to the contrary,  I can only conclude that the damage 
happened while the car was in Mr Fs possession.
As such I am unable  to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
25 December 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9864382