K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Drafty approved a line of credit for Mr W in July 2016, with a credit limit of £500. The 
minimum monthly repayment was variable, but if Mr W drew  down up to his credit limit his 
monthly repayment wouldve been  £50.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought  
Drafty had carried out proportionate checks before lending  and that it was reasonable for it 
to think the facility was affordable for Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said his credit  history  including his defaults, 
amount of existing credit  and use of payday  loans  meant Drafty shouldnt have given him 
this facility. As there  was no agreement, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  irresponsible lending  on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ws case.
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay his loan in a sustainable manner.
I think the checks Drafty carried out were proportionate, taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances at the time. The size of the facility and corresponding monthly repayments 
were small in comparison to Mr Ws declared  monthly income of £2,000. Drafty also appears 
to have recorded that Mr W declared  his monthly expenditure as £700  although it used  a 
larger number for its affordability calculation   which also suggested  the facility  would  be 
sustainably affordable for Mr W.
Drafty hasnt  provided a full breakdown of the credit check  it carried out  it has provided 
only a summary. The report Drafty  obtained shows no defaulted or delinquent accounts  and 
three active accounts. The total value of the accounts was little over £21,000. So it appears  
Draftys credit check suggested to it that Mr W was managing his other accounts properly in 
the time before his application. I dont think the total value of Mr Ws accounts is concerning  
either, bearing in mind  his declared  income and apparent  disposable income.
I understand that Mr W feels strongly that this isnt a true reflection of his credit  history.  He 
has provided his own copy of a full credit  report to support his position. And it does show 
some defaults. Theres also evidence from other complaints he made about having  a large 
number of payday loans from other lenders.
I think it may be helpful to explain that the full credit report Mr W has access  to isnt 
necessary the same  as what Drafty wouldve  seen.  For example, Mr Ws report  shows six 
years of detailed history  but a lender (particularly  in this sector)  might focus only on more 
recent history. Theres no obligation on a lender to carry out a credit check  in any particular 
Ref: DRN92851952way. Drafty was entitled to obtain only the information it thought most relevant. And this 
information doesnt suggest Mr W was in financial difficulty, or anything else which  ought to 
have led Drafty to believe it wouldnt have been right to lend. 
So although  Mr W might  have had a history of reliance  on payday loans, Ive not seen clear  
evidence Drafty was aware  of this and so I do not think it is something  I can say it ought  to 
have taken into account. I also think the defaults  Mr W has mentioned can reasonably be 
regarded as historic  given the time between the defaults and Draftys decision to approve 
this facility.
Finally, Ive considered  how Mr W used the facility to see if there was a point at which  Drafty 
shouldve intervened. I think Mr W only made a small number of drawdowns and did so in a 
short space of time. So the way Mr W used the facility doesnt suggest he was unlikely to 
repay what he was borrowing in a reasonable amount of time.  I therefore  dont think I could 
reasonably conclude Drafty shouldve withdrawn the facility  at any point before Mr W got into 
difficulty making his repayments.
I understand this will be disappointing for Mr W but I am unable  to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint against Gain  Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285195