K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Amtrust Europe  Limited has sought to charge an extra  
premium for their self-build warranty as their builder refused to sign an indemnity agreement. 
The administration of the policy was dealt with by a management company although for 
convenience I shall refer to Amtrust throughout
background
In June 2016 Mr and Mrs C reached an agreement with a builder  on a self-build project. The 
builder arranged a warranty with Amtrust. They  paid the premium to the builder, who paid it 
on to Amtrust. Unfortunately the builder  had a disagreement with Mr and Mrs C and walked 
off the job. Mr and Mrs C had to get another builder to complete the work. The build was 
completed in December 2017 but Mr and Mrs C were then told by Amtrust that before the 
certificate could be issued, they would have to pay an additional premium of £488.88. This 
was because their original builder had refused  to sign an indemnity agreement, indemnifying 
Amtrust against claims in the first year of the warranty.
Amtrust pointed out that it had sent the policy documents  and terms and conditions  to the 
builder and that it was made clear that an additional premium would be charged if the the 
indemnity wasnt signed.  Mr and Mrs C said they had never received those documents.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that he thought that Amtrust had acted 
reasonably.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and put to Amtrust  a proposal that it forego the extra premium 
and only insure  the property  for the nine year term after the builders one year liability period 
had expired. Amtrust  wasnt  prepared to agree to this. It said that once the additional 
premium had been paid the insurance  certificate would be issued, to run from the date of 
sign off in 2017. Alternatively it would  cancel the whole policy and refund the premium,  less 
a retention for administration fees.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the self-build warranty make it clear that the builder has to sign 
the indemnity  agreement  before an insurance certificate can be issued. If, as in this case,  
the builder refuses  to sign, Amtrust  reserves the right to charge an additional premium to 
reflect the increased risk to it of any issues arising in the first year of the warranty.  Here the 
builder, as he didnt  complete the job, simply refused to sign the agreement and then 
became uncontactable.
Mr and Mrs C have made the point that they didnt  receive any of the documents  regarding  
the warranty  they paid over the premium  to the builder who paid it to Amtrust.  Amtrust says 
it sent all the forms to the builder. And its clear from the application  forms that the builder 
was put in as the point of contact. So whilst Im sorry that Mr and Mrs C werent sent the 
documents from their builder, Amtrust wasnt responsible for this.
Ref: DRN93375172Further, I understand that it was upsetting to Mr and Mrs C to receive a further demand for 
payment. But the terms and conditions of the warranty did require that the indemnity be 
signed before a certificate could be issued.  The builder was supposed to arrange it but 
because he walked off the job, Mr and Mrs C werent aware that he hadnt signed  it.
The additional premium  is set at a specific rate to reflect the risk to Amtrust if the builder  
doesnt sign the indemnity, because it may not be able to recover  anything  from the builder 
for any claims made  during that first year. Amtrust has sent us details of that rate and I think 
it was reasonable.  The alternative which might have been unfair would have been to cancel 
the policy and return the premium less administration fees.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C invited  Amtrust  to only cover the property for the remaining 
nine years of the policy so that it wouldnt take on the increased risk for the one year 
builders liability period. Amtrust wasnt prepared to do this - it said the policy  is issued for 
ten years  from the date of sign off. If Amtrust has taken the view that it offers ten year 
warranties and isnt prepared to modify them I cant expect it to do otherwise. 
I accept that theres  now a low likelihood of any claim  arising  in the first year but the total 
premium is to cover the whole term of the warranty. It covers  an overall risk assessed as 
being appropriate in accordance with its underwriting guidelines, not an individual risk for a 
particular property. And those are Amtrusts  terms of business. 
So overall I cant say that Amtrust has acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs C must decide  whether 
they want to pay the additional premium or cancel the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9337517