K821x#15Complaint
Miss C complains that following a report of fraud  on her account  The Co-operative Bank Plc 
didnt provide her with correct information  which caused her to run up an overdraft of 
£899.03 and incur bank charges. She would like the debt written  off.
Background
Miss C had a current account with the Co-op  bank. 
She noticed that her account  had been  used for fraudulent online gambling transactions 
totalling £460.00. She reported this to Co-op  on 3 January  2019.  
Co-op agreed to investigate and cancelled her card and issued  her with a new card and PIN. 
They credited her with £460.00 and froze any other  transactions  so they wouldnt debit the 
account pending the investigation. Following an investigation, the bank found  that the 
disputed transactions  were unauthorised.
Miss C was not informed  that any genuine card payments would also not debit the account 
during the period of the banks investigation.  Miss Cs children  nursery payment for £840 
which she made on 2 January 2019 didnt debit her account until 21 January 2019  This 
meant she thought  she had more money  in the account than was the case.  When  the 
account was unfrozen  following the investigation,  she realised she was overdrawn by £840.  
When her salary was credited it went towards the overdraft and she was left without  any 
money to pay for essentials 
Miss C said that the payment meant she wasnt able to pay her bills or look after her 
children.
The bank investigated and accepted  that they should have told Miss C that all transactions 
on the account would be frozen.  They offered Miss C £50 in compensation for their error. 
She accepted this amount. The bank  agreed  to give her a temporary overdraft with a 
payment plan in place  to pay back the overdraft  and advised her to open a new account. 
Due to non-payments  the account  defaulted,  and the debt was sold to a third party.
On reflection Miss C was not happy  with the resolution offered by Co-op bank so she asked 
them to look at the complaint again asking them to cancel  the overdraft. The bank said that 
the level of compensation was fair and reasonable, and they wouldnt be changing their 
decision.
Miss C complained to our service she said that the bank had admitted they got it wrong and 
so they should cover the cost of her overdraft. She said the situation  had been  very stressful  
financially, physically and emotionally. One of our investigators looked into her complaint. 
She didnt  think Co-op bank should cancel the debt even though they had made  an error 
because Miss C had spent the money.  She thought  Miss C on checking her account, must 
have realised she had more money in the account  than she expected. She thought the way 
the account had been used after the fraud had increased the debt. She felt the 
compensation offered was not sufficient for the impact on Miss C and asked the bank to 
increase the offer of compensation  to £150  and to refund any interest and charges incurred 
reducing the debt back to £840.The bank  agreed  with this and our investigator  issued her 
view on that basis.
Ref: DRN92092182Miss C didnt agree with the view. She said it was the banks responsibility  to advise her on 
what would  be happening, and they made an error.  She said that all she did was make a 
payment for her childcare.  She was unhappy  with the proposed  payment of £150 
compensation for distress.  And she still wanted the overdraft written off.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as the Investigator for broadly the same reasons.  And Ill explain why below.
Miss C was the victim of fraud.  The complaint is not about the way the bank dealt with the 
fraud so I will not be looking at any aspects of the fraud.
Cancelling the debt
Miss C has asked that the bank cancel her debt for £840. The bank have  accepted that they 
made an error in not letting Miss C know  that all payments out of her account would be 
frozen pending the fraud investigation.  
I have listened  to calls with our investigator. Miss C told us that she didnt check that the 
payment made on 2 January  for £840 had gone  out of the account. She said that she 
wouldnt have made the extra payment to the nursery  of £700 if the bank had explained the 
process properly. 
I appreciate that the bank could have  done more to explain the situation to her and what  
would happen  with her payments. The bank have accepted  they made an error.  I will look at 
the impact the error had on Miss C below. 
First, I have gone on to consider whether  Miss C suffered a financial loss as a result  of the 
error made by the bank and if so, what is that loss.
I have looked  at Miss Cs statements,  from these I can see that she doesnt  normally have 
high balances in her account  and that when she has payments coming in, for example her 
wages or her DWP benefit, she takes  the opportunity to pay towards her childcare costs.
Miss C has told us that she pays for her childcare in chunks  as she cant  afford to pay it all in 
one go. Miss C has also said that she was in arrears with her childcare.
Miss C noticed that she had enough money  in her account to make a payment to the nursery  
and on the 8 January, she made  a payment of £700 to cover  childcare  costs.  Unbeknown to 
her she didnt in fact have  sufficient  funds in her account to make  this payment and once her 
account was reactivated  and the £840 payment to the nursery made  on the 2 January went  
through, Miss C was overdrawn  by that amount.
On reviewing the evidence, I am satisfied that Miss C didnt suffer  a financial loss. I say this 
because the money  that she owed to the nursery was reduced because  of the payment she 
made. However, I accept  she now owed  this money  to the bank instead.  I appreciate that 
Miss C may feel that she would never  have taken an overdraft for that amount. However, I 
Ref: DRN92092183note that Miss C has other debt including the debt to the nursery  which is now reduced as a 
result of this payment.
I accept that a debt with the bank carries interest  and charges when a debt with a nursery  
does not. The bank has offered to cancel the interest and charges on the overdraft  account  
reducing the amount Miss C owes back to £840.  I think this is fair and reasonable and 
ensures that Miss C isnt losing out by paying  extra for the overdraft she ended  up with 
because things were  not explained to her properly by the bank.
The overdraft facility
Miss C contacted the bank on 24 January 2019  when she realised that her wages had been 
swallowed up by her payment to the nursery and a couple of additional payments that went 
through. She was understandably distressed and worried as she explained she would have 
no money for food for her children.
In situations of financial difficulties, the lending code imposes an obligation on the lender to 
behave sympathetically  and positively and to do what it can to help the consumer deal with 
their debt. It is important that both parties  communicate about the financial difficulties. The 
key conversation took place in January 2019  and having listened  to the call, I can 
understand why the conversation was difficult for Miss C given  the circumstances 
surrounding the call. I think the person who spoke to Miss C who I will refer to as H, was 
sympathetic and tried to help Miss C. She went through an income  and expenditure form 
with her. However,  Miss C didnt have  all the information available to hand, in particular she 
didnt have information about  her other  debts.  
I note that the Co-op did arrange for an overdraft of £840 so Miss C would have some 
money to buy food and cover her normal living expenses that month. H was very clear  that 
the overdraft was for a month. H advised  Miss C to either call back when she had details of 
all her debts and finish the form or go to a debt relief  charity for help. She told Miss C to call 
back with the debt relief  charity reference  number. I think it would have been helpful if H had 
said what might happen  if they didnt hear back from Miss C.
Miss C never called back or paid anything towards the overdraft. I accept that Miss C should 
have called back to finish the form or give a reference and that this might  have  made a 
difference as to how the overdraft was dealt with by Co-op. I appreciate that she was in 
financial difficulties, but I cant hold Co-op responsible  for her not calling back with the 
information from the debt relief  charity.
The bank sent a final notice to Miss C on 5 June requesting the payment of the overdraft.
I think given the circumstances the bank  behaved  fairly in offering the overdraft facility for a 
month and giving advice to contact the debt charity.
However, I think the bank  knew  that Miss C was in financial  difficulties and had more  debt 
because she had mentioned it to H in the phone call. Because of this I dont think Co-op 
were fair in adding interest to the overdraft payments. Following the involvement of our 
investigator the bank  have agreed to refund the interest and charges and have reduced the 
debt to the original  £840.
Ref: DRN92092184The impact  of the error 
The bank accepted they made a mistake. That mistake caused  Miss C to be overdrawn on 
her account.  The investigators view is that Co-op should pay £150 in compensation for the 
distress caused to Miss C because  of being overdrawn. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
offer. 
In deciding this I have taken into account  that the money went  into paying for the nursery  
arrears and the bank  went through an income and expenditure exercise with Miss C and 
offered her a temporary overdraft to cover her situation. I have  taken into consideration that 
Miss C was very distressed when she realised  she had no money  to look after her children. I 
have also taken into account that Miss C didnt call the bank back. 
Summary
In summary,  Miss C says that because the bank didnt tell her that the payments out would 
be frozen, they should cover the costs  of the debt, but I disagree.  Miss C has had the benefit  
of that money.  She has used it to pay for her childcare which means  her arrears of childcare 
have reduced.  Miss C will be disappointed with my decision, because  I wont be asking the 
bank to cancel  her debt.
As I have said I think the Co-op bank shouldnt have  added interest to Miss Cs overdraft. 
However, I am satisfied  that the addition of interest  hasnt  prevented  Miss C from paying 
back the debt.  The bank have agreed  to cancel the interest and charges on the overdraft.  
So, although  I would have expected the bank not to charge any interest from the outset as it 
was their error and they were aware  that Miss C was in financial difficulty, I wont be asking 
Co-op bank to do anything more.
I consider the £150 compensation to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the 
reasons I have mentioned above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  I direct Cooperative  Bank Plc to: 
pay Miss C £150 in compensation minus whats already been paid.
Cancel any charges and interest that have  been added to the overdraft.
Agree a realistic payment plan with Miss C to ensure the overdraft is cleared.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9209218