K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt  paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R are insured under a travel insurance  policy provided by UKI.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Rs car broke down and they were unable  to continue  with a trip 
theyd planned.  They travelled instead  a few days later.  So they made  a claim under their 
policy with UKI for their unused costs and additional expenses. 
UKI said the only section  of their policy which Mr and Mrs R could claim under was the 
missed departure section  of cover, and this would  only cover  additional  expenses  and not 
unused costs. Mr and Mrs R queried why they couldnt  claim  under  the cancellation section 
of their policy. When they didnt receive a satisfactory response from UKI, they brought their 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he didnt think  Mr and Mrs R were  
covered for cancellation in these circumstances.  And he said he didnt think Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim was covered under missed departure either,  as this only applied  to international trips.  
Mr and Mrs R then confirmed their planned holiday consisted of two nights in the UK on 
route to France. They said they missed the UK part of their trip as well as their original  
Channel crossing  and a two night  accommodation  booking in Paris.  So they had to book a 
ferry on a different route and new accommodation in France.  
Our investigator said he still didnt think the claim was covered under Mr and Mrs Rs policy 
because, based on the information he had, they travelled on a different trip to the one theyd 
originally planned.
Mr and Mrs R have since provided further  details of their original trip, as well as more 
information about the alternative arrangements they made. 
I sent these details to UKI for their comments.  I then told both parties  about my intention  to 
uphold the complaint in part and gave them an opportunity to respond before making my 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cancellation section  of Mr and Mrs Rs policy  covers unused accommodation and travel 
costs if a trip is cancelled  for a specific list of reasons. These include illness  of the 
policyholder or a close relative, redundancy or theft of a passport amongst other things. But 
vehicle breakdown isnt a listed reason. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs claim for their 
unused costs is covered  under this section  of their policy. 
Ref: DRN99800812But I do think part of Mr and Mrs Rs claim is covered under the missed  international 
departure section of cover.  This says UKI will pay reasonable additional accommodation 
and travel expenses  for the policyholder to get to their trip destination on their outward 
journey if, for example,  the policyholders  car breaks  down.  
I think some  confusion arose in this case because Mr and Mrs R initially said they went  on a 
different short  trip and not on the trip theyd originally  booked.  But Mr and Mrs R have now 
clarified where the planned stops  and the ultimate end destination were on their original trip. 
UKIs claim  notes record the travel  dates of the original trip as being over two weeks  long.  
Mr and Mrs R have provided  evidence  of their car breaking down and explained,  as a 
consequence of this, they had to pay for a new ferry crossing and make  a new booking  for 
accommodation in France for a day later than originally intended. Theyve  also explained 
why an originally planned stop was removed from their new itinerary. 
So, overall, Im satisfied Mr and Mr R did incur additional accommodation and travel  costs to 
reach their end trip destination which was outside of the UK. And, as this was as a result of 
their car breaking down,  I think this part of their claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the missed  international departure section of their policy.  
This means  I think  UKI should pay for the cost of Mr and Mrs Rs new ferry crossing  and new 
accommodation booking  in France.  
Mr and Mrs R have also provided receipts  for food, petrol and toll expenses. I understand 
the only costs Mr and Mrs R feel they are now due are their additional ferry and 
accommodation expenses. But, for the avoidance  of doubt, I dont think food or toll costs are 
covered under the terms and conditions  of their policy.  And, based on the information I have, 
I dont think I can fairly  ask UKI to pay for any petrol  costs in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
U K Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs R for their new ferry booking  and additional 
accommodation in France, subject to any applicable policy limit and/or excess. 
U K Insurance Limited must add interest to the settlement at 8% simple per year from the 
date Mr and Mrs R paid for these items1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much it has taken  off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs R a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN9980081