K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that BUPA Insurance Limited  has given him incorrect information. He says 
the insurer promised  him compensation,  in the region of £200, to reflect  its mistake but 
hasnt paid him that amount. He wants Bupa to apologise and pay £200.  
background
Mr T had arranged  musculoskeletal  appointments through his private medical insurance. 
Before going to his first appointment,  Mr T asked Bupa about parking at the centre hed be 
attending. The insurer told him that the centre would reimburse  up to £7 towards  his parking 
fees but, when  Mr T attended, the centre said his parking wouldnt be reimbursed.
Mr T complained to Bupa and said the insurer had given him incorrect information. He also 
said that it had told him all his appointments would  be covered under one authorisation 
number but, when actually attending his appointments, the centre had asked him for different 
numbers. Mr T asked  the insurer to consider compensating him in the region of £200, to 
reflect what  had happened.
Bupa looked  into Mr Ts concerns and said it wasnt told about the change in the centres 
approach to parking. It apologised for providing  incorrect information and said it would  try 
and get his parking costs reimbursed. Bupa wasnt able to do that though,  and offered him 
£25 to recognise what had happened. But the insurer said it had followed the correct  
process in relation to authorising Mr Ts treatment.
Bupa explained  that the first authorisation number it gave Mr T had covered an initial  
appointment, minor  diagnostic tests, an MRI and a follow-up appointment. It said that 
although Mr T had called the insurer  again  (to say he needed  an MRI and follow-up),  it had 
been able to explain that those were already included within his initial  authorisation. 
The insurer  said it had needed  to provide another authorisation number  because  Mr T 
called again and said he needed a second  follow-up, but only one was covered under the 
initial authorisation. Bupa said that Mr T should  ask the centre  to call the insurer  directly if he 
experienced any further problems.
Unhappy with Bupas response Mr T approached this service. He repeated  his concerns 
about the incorrect information, and said Bupa  told him hed be getting  £200. One of our 
investigators looked at what  had happened  and felt that: 
the insurer couldnt be held entirely  responsible  for something  it didnt know  and had 
tried to put the parking  situation  right for Mr T
it wasnt unreasonable for the second authorisation number to be needed 
other than Mr Ts testimony,  there  wasnt anything to show Bupa had agreed to pay 
him £200
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld  but Mr T disagreed. He said 
the insurer should be held accountable for providing  incorrect information, the centre had 
kept asking him for authorisation numbers, and hed been promised £200. 
Ref: DRN98997982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr T is, understandably, unhappy  with receiving incorrect  parking  information. At the point 
the insurer told him about the parking it didnt know that the centre had changed  things, and 
it would  be unfair of me to hold the insurer responsible for that. I have, however, considered  
whether the insurer  acted  fairly once it became aware of what had happened. 
When Bupa  realised that the information it had given Mr T was wrong  it apologised.  It tried to 
get his parking reimbursed and offered him £25 when it wasnt  able to do that. I appreciate 
that it must  have been inconvenient for Mr T to have been given wrong information. But, in 
all the circumstances,  Im of the opinion that Bupa acted fairly once it realised what had 
happened. 
I know that Mr T has concerns about  the authorisation numbers that Bupa gave him too. But 
based on the available evidence in this case, the insurer explained what  was covered under 
the first authorisation number, and why it needed  to provide the second. Again, I appreciate 
that Mr Ts experience at the centre must have been both inconvenient and frustrating for 
him. But Im not persuaded  that Bupa made  an error in the way it authorised his treatment. 
Bupa has told Mr T that he should get the centre to call it directly if he experiences  any 
further issues around the authorisation numbers  and I would encourage him to do that.
The evidence available in this case doesnt reflect Mr Ts opinion  that is, Bupa said it would 
pay him £200. But based on what Ive seen as a whole, I dont feel that the issues  hes 
experienced warrant that level of compensation. 
my final decision
Bupa has already made Mr T an offer of £25 to settle this complaint. I think  this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances,  and my decision is that BUPA  Insurance Limited should pay £25. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.  
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9899798