K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that in August 2007  they were  given  unsuitable advice by The 
Mortgage Shop (Exeter)  Limited (which I will call TMS). Mr T has dealt with the complaint 
throughout.
background
In August  2007  Mr and Mrs T were given mortgage advice by TMS. At the time they had a 
repayment mortgage of approximately £33,300. Mr T has told us that he wanted to see if he 
could raise finance to pay off his taxi, along  with some other debts, and to talk about future 
retirement plans. (At the time, Mr T was 56, and self-employed.)
TMS arranged a mortgage for Mr and Mrs T of £146,000.  The mortgage was over 13 years  
on an interest-only basis. For the first two years the mortgage was at a fixed  rate, which 
ended on 31 October 2009,  after which it reverted to the lenders standard variable rate. 
An early  repayment  charge  (ERC) applied if the mortgage was repaid during the fixed  rate 
period. Regular overpayments or lump sum overpayments  were  allowed.  During the fixed  
rate period,  these would be subject to the ERC. As a concession, during the fixed  rate 
period, overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance were allowed without 
incurring an ERC.
Out of the new mortgage Mr and Mrs T repaid  their existing mortgage,  credit card debts of 
£19,500 and other  unsecured debt (including the taxi) of £16,000. This left about £76,500 
surplus.
Although it is recorded in TMSs paperwork that this was intended  to be used for home 
improvements. Mr T has a very different recollection. He says he doesnt know  why the 
paperwork refers to home improvements, because that wasnt the plan at all. The staff 
member Mr T dealt  with no longer works  for TMS, and so its not possible to obtain further 
clarification. So I have to take what Mr T says as being the more  accurate record  of what  
transpired in 2007.
Mr T says that, when he was talking  to TMS about  retirement plans, he was asked if hed 
ever thought about going into buy-to-let (BTL) property. Mr T says that after discussing this 
with TMS,  he decided he wanted to do this.  
Mr T has explained  that it was never his intention to use the £76,500 for home 
improvements. Instead Mr T says that his plan was to find five properties, use £5,000  for the 
deposit on each  (so £25,000), take out BTL mortgages arranged by TMS and use the 
remaining £50,000 to refurbish the properties. Mr T says that the BTL properties were to be 
his repayment  strategy  for the mortgage  and his retirement  plan.
Mr T says that after the mortgage completed, he actively looked for properties and found a 
couple he was interested  in. He says he went  into TMS to speak to them  about the BTL 
properties hed found several times  over a period of about two years. Each  time he was told 
they were too busy to speak to him. Eventually, one day in about  2009 he went to TMSs 
office and found it was closed. 
Mr T has clarified  that, when he wasnt able to arrange BTL mortgages with TMS, he didnt 
go to another  broker, as he changed  his mind  about  investing in BTL property. Over  the next 
few years,  Mr T decided  instead to invest the money  in shares  and fine wines.  Unfortunately 
Ref: DRN91365572both investments were  unsuccessful and Mr T lost money. Mr and Mrs T also carried out 
some home improvements and used the rest of the money for school fees for their 
grandchildren.
In 2017 Mr T complained  to TMS that the mortgage  had been  mis-sold. He explained that 
hed been told by TMS that they would  support  him in buying BLT properties,  but failed to do 
so. He was worried  that the mortgage  term was reaching its end and didnt know  what he 
was going to do about it.
Initially TMS  didnt consent to us considering  the complaint, saying it had been  brought  too 
late. An ombudsman  decided that the complaint had been brought  in time. 
Two investigators looked at the complaint and thought  the mortgage had been  mis-sold. 
Thats because they said that borrowing to consolidate debt and carry out home  
improvement wasnt suitable advice. The first investigator said that, by consolidating debt, 
Mr and Mrs T only needed to borrow £84,000 and that Mr and Mrs T dont seem to have 
had much of a need for the additional funds above that £84,000 figure.  Theyve not been 
able to point to any particular use for it  it wasnt necessary for the home improvements 
they went on to carry  out
The second  investigator also thought that £80,000  was a very large  amount to borrow  for 
home improvements. He thought the viability of the plan to renovate  the property  and sell it 
at an increased value was speculative. As a result, he thought the recommendation was 
unsuitable. He asked TMS to calculate  what Mr and Mrs T would have paid if theyd had a 
repayment mortgage in 2007 and pay the difference to Mr and Mrs T. He also asked TMS to 
pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
TMS didnt agree that the complaint should  be upheld.  They  asked for an ombudsmans 
review of the complaint.
provisional decision:  On 10 May 2019 I issued a provisional decision in which I made  the 
following findings:
The mortgage was on a self-certified basis. The reasons for this are explained in the 
suitability letter  that Mr Ts self-assessment  forms were  with HMRC and so he had 
no up-to-date  proof  of earnings. TMS  also discussed the implications of consolidation 
of unsecured debt into the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs T also had an ERC on their existing 
mortgage product  (suggesting it had only recently been taken out) and TMS  clarified 
that Mr and Mrs Ts existing lender would not allow them  to borrow  additional funds. 
The conclusions reached by the investigators  are based on what  was recorded on 
the fact-find   which is that the remortgage was for debt consolidation and home 
improvements. But Mr T is very clear that this is not what he intended to do with the 
money. His recollection is quite detailed about  his repayment strategy for the 
mortgage, and about the discussions he had with TMS about this. 
In 2007 the lending climate was very different  than it is today.  The market was 
buoyant and people who hadnt  previously owned rental properties were getting into 
the BTL market. There is nothing recorded  in TMSs documents about  discussions 
about arranging  BTL mortgages  for Mr T. Thats not unusual.  These  types of 
mortgages are unregulated and so there arent  the same regulatory  obligations to 
record information about them.
Ref: DRN91365573Given the lending  and property climate in 2007,  I think, on balance, TMS probably did 
discuss BTL properties  with Mr T, given that his recollection of this is so clear.  His 
plan was to use £25,000 of the £76,500 for deposits leaving about  £50,000  for 
renovations to the properties. Looking at the house  price history of the area where he 
lives, I think it was perfectly feasible that Mr T could have bought five modest 
properties suitable for the rental market at £50,000  each  with BTL mortgages.
I dont think that this was an unrealistic  or unsuitable strategy in the lending climate  of 
2007. If Mr T had gone through  with his plans, he would have had five properties  
generating an income and which would have had capital appreciation over the years. 
House price statistics show an average of a 40% increase  in value for flats in the 
area where  Mr and Mrs T live since 2007.  If he had followed this through, Mr Ts 
repayment strategy for the mortgage would be in place.
Ive noted what  Mr T has said  that TMS told him it was too busy  to talk to him when 
he called  in to discuss arranging BTL mortgages.  I have  to say that I think  this is 
unlikely. A client who has over £75,000  to invest and who wants to arrange BTL 
mortgages is an attractive proposition for any mortgage broker.  So Im not persuaded 
TMS would have turned  down such business.
This is particularly so after the financial  crash  that happened in late 2008.After the 
crash, the market  for residential mortgages  shrunk considerable. But lenders were 
still willing  to offer BLT mortgages. As house  prices fell after 2008, this made entering 
the BLT market even  more attractive, particularly as more people  were unable to find 
residential mortgages and so needed  to find private rented accommodation.
Given this, Im not persuaded TMS  would have turned down the opportunity  to 
arrange BTL mortgages for Mr T. But even if it did, there was nothing  to stop him 
from contacting  another mortgage  broker to arrange  these for him, particularly as he 
had found suitable properties.
Mr T has said that, once he discovered TMSs  office  had closed in 2009, he decided  
not to contact another broker or go ahead with his plan to invest in BTL properties.  
Instead he and Mrs T carried out some  home  improvements,  invested  in shares and 
wine and eventually spend the rest of the money on school fees for their 
grandchildren.
That was a choice  made by Mr and Mrs T, and I dont think I can hold TMS 
responsible for Mr and Mrs Ts decision  to change their BTL plans and diversify into 
other investments instead which later proved to be unsuccessful.
Im also conscious that, by October  2009,  there  was no longer any ERC on the 
mortgage. So it was always  open to Mr and Mrs T, if theyd wanted to, to pay back 
the £76,500 to the mortgage and convert  it onto a repayment basis.
On the one hand, Mr T has told us that he didnt  know  he could pay money  off the 
mortgage. But on the other  hand, he also said that he was aware that there  was a 
restriction during the ERC period that allowed only a small percentage of the 
mortgage to be repaid.  So Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T didnt know they could 
pay a lump sum off the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN91365574In the circumstances, I think that, once Mr T decided he wasnt going to go into the 
BLT market, in 2009 he and Mrs T could, if theyd wanted to, paid the £76,500 off the 
mortgage and converted  it to repayment. I think that if theyd done  that, Mr and Mrs T 
would not now be in the position they find themselves  in, with no repayment strategy 
and having dissipated the money theyd borrowed for the purpose of putting  their BTL 
plan in place.
After carefully consideration, and taking into account  everything Mr T has said about  
what he intended to do with the surplus  funds, Im satisfied that the mortgage wasnt  
mis-sold. Its unfortunate  that Mr and Mrs T didnt  go through with their intended 
plans and that the investments they later made didnt generate the returns  theyd 
hoped for. But I cant hold TMS responsible for that.
I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint  and gave Mr and Mrs T and TMS the opportunity  to 
respond. Mr and Mrs T didnt provide any further  evidence or arguments. TMS accepted my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive revisited my provisional decision and 
reviewed the file again.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision. I remain of the opinion  for the same reasons given in my provisional decision and 
set out above   that the mortgage was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
 
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9136557