K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Miss C say Santander UK Plc (trading  as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which started  in 1999.  
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr H and Miss Cs 
complaint. This is because Santander  recommended the policy  to them,  but I dont think it 
was suitable for them.  I say this because it seems likely Mr H (the person covered) was 
entitled to very good employment  benefits  which would have given him long term sick pay. 
This is because his employer was known to provide very good sickness benefits, and Mr H 
had been employed with them for about 5 years at the time the mortgage  started. 
So I think the PPI would  have been of limited value for money for Mr H and Miss C. If theyd 
been advised properly, I think they wouldnt have bought the policy. 
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr H and Miss C in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr H and Miss C the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr H and Miss C made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim, from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr H and Miss C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr H and Miss Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN97728702I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr H and Miss C compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9772870