K820x#14complaint
H, a registered  charity, complains that CAF Bank Ltd has requested  personal  information 
about its trustees.
background
CAF Bank told H it was carrying out a review and said it wanted information about  each of its 
trustees. H has over 20 trustees and was concerned  that CAF Bank  wanted  the name and 
address of each  and other personal information  and couldnt see why. When  it complained 
CAF Bank said it would  accept the details from what it considered to be the trustees with 
significant positions. H did not agree and said that only two of the trustees  had any 
connection with the bank  account. It thought that CAF Bank was asking it to breach data 
protection requirements and it referred  CAF Bank to the information about  H available on the 
Charity Commission website.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-CAF Bank, like all financial businesses, had a responsibility to know  who it was doing 
business with.
-He accepted that providing information  for all the trustees would be a long-winded 
process and that CAF Bank had decided to ask for this from those  with significant 
positions.
-Its not the role of this service to consider  whether  there would be a breach of data 
protection requirements and that would  be a matter for the Information  
Commissioners Office.
H did not agree, and the treasurer  who represents  it here said that there is no such thing as 
a prominent trustee and all trustees had equal responsibility. He said CAF Bank has made 
errors in its communication. The treasurer said he has relevant professional  qualifications in 
this area and doesnt understand or accept the approach of CAF Bank. He didnt agree with 
the comments about the trustees or that CAF Bank asking H to breach data protection  
requirements isnt something we should  look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CAF Bank issued a final response  to H in November 2018  and were  focussing in this 
complaint on the issues dealt  with in that letter.  I can see that the request for this information 
stemmed from a know  your customer  review. CAF Bank is expected to know who it is doing  
business with to ensure that it complies  with legal and regulatory requirements. Thats a 
requirement common across the industry.  Its written to H to state  that this is more  than 
knowing who has signing  rights on the bank account but its about who has control over the 
decisions at H. 
Ive seen from publically  available information that H has a number of trustees and I agree  
with the treasurer  that all of them act in an official capacity for H. Having said that CAF Bank  
has looked at their respective roles including on any internal  committees and has decided  
who it thinks have the most significant positions.  It has now limited  its requests to those 
individuals which I note includes members  of the finance committee.  I appreciate that H 
Ref: DRN95697842disagrees with this selection  but I dont think it would be any happier  if information about all 
the trustees  was still required.
We dont have a role in saying  what  processes CAF Bank should follow and how it should  
satisfy regulatory  requirements. Here  I think its explained what  it needs to H and why and 
has responded to its feedback. And although we take account of relevant legislation I agree 
with our investigator that a specific complaint about any data protection  legislation  issues  
would need to be made with the Information Commissioners Office. I dont though  see that 
causing such issues for H is the intention of CAF Bank. And the terms and conditions of the 
account that Ive seen  explain  the agreed  way in which CAF Bank  will use data provided  by 
H.
Im afraid I dont have  a basis to find that CAF Bank has made a mistake or acted  
unreasonably in requiring this information. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9569784