K821x#15complaint
M, a small  business, complains about  how Society  of Lloyds dealt with its claim on its 
commercial motor insurance policy and the expenses  it incurred  as a result. It wants 
compensation for the effect  of the delays in the claim  and for the claim to be settled. This 
complaint is brought on behalf  of M by Mr M, one of its partners.
background
One of Ms coaches  was involved in an accident and a claim was made to Lloyds. Mr M said 
Lloyds initially thought the coach  would be deemed  to be beyond  economical repair  (a total 
loss), but without making an inspection. He said it took 56 days for Lloyds to authorise 
repairs. During this time he said he had to hire a replacement coach to maintain a contract 
and he wants these  costs  partially reimbursed. 
Lloyds agreed  that there had been  delays in getting the coach to a suitable repairer and 
authorising the repairs. But it said the policy didnt cover loss of earnings or hire. However, it 
offered M £500  as a gesture of goodwill. It added a further £50 due to late payment  of this 
compensation.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Lloyds 
hadnt requested  an assessment of the coach until four weeks  after the accident.  It then took 
three weeks to obtain an engineers report.  So he thought  Lloyds had caused 41 days delay 
in the claim and it should reimburse Ms replacement coach costs for that time,  with interest, 
less the £500 already offered. He thought Lloyds could deduct  from the settlement any 
payment for over and above  38 days  received from the other  insurer  from this settlement.
Lloyds replied that the replacement coach hire charges should be claimed  back  from the 
other insurer as uninsured  losses once the claim had been settled. It thought M would have 
access to other coaches in its fleet.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the liability for the accident is not yet settled. So Ill not comment  on that here. 
Our usual  approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that the policy  
includes a specific exception that says compensation  isnt provided when the consumer is 
unable to use its vehicle,  including  the cost of hiring a replacement.
I think that this exception is reasonably clear. And I think it would be reasonable for Lloyds 
to apply it to Ms claim if it had taken  Lloyds a reasonable  time to deal with it. But Lloyds 
agreed that it had caused an avoidable  delay in the claim. This was the length of time it took 
to get the coach to a suitable  repairer  following the notification  of the claim and to obtain an 
engineers report  on the needed repairs. 
When a business  makes a mistake, we expect  it to restore  the consumers position to what  it 
would have been without this error. 
Ref: DRN91564452So whilst the policy doesnt cover financial losses caused by an accident,  I think Lloyds 
should reasonably have  considered Ms financial losses  caused by its delays.
Mr M has provided evidence that M incurred extra expenses because of this delay. Hes 
explained that he needed a specific coach to perform and retain a specific contract  and so 
had to hire a replacement.  I think thats  quite reasonable  in the circumstances  and I can 
understand that simply using another coach from his fleet wouldnt be possible. I also think 
M has shown that it reasonably tried to mitigate its losses  by hiring a replacement and so 
retained the contract. 
Mr M has provided evidence of the hire costs M incurred because  of the delay.  The 
replacement coach cost £140 a day. He wants Lloyds to pay half the 79 days  hire costs  for 
the replacement  coach. 
But I think a fairer approach would be to calculate  the number of days  that Lloyds caused 
avoidable delays  and require it to reimburse  M for this. Lloyds initially  thought the coach 
would be beyond economical repair. But looking at its file I cant  see why it then decided  to 
repair it. I can see that it took 54 days from the date of the accident for Lloyds to obtain  a 
detailed repairs estimate. I think 14 days would have been reasonable. 
So I think Lloyds should pay Ms replacement hire costs for 40 days (the adjudicator 
miscounted this as 41 days). M has been  without its money for some  time, so I think Lloyds 
should pay interest on this amount from the date M paid it (2 February 2018). Lloyds paid M 
£500 as a gesture of goodwill. I think it would be reasonable for it to deduct this from the 
reimbursement of hire costs. 
Lloyds said M could  recover  the hire costs as uninsured losses from the other drivers 
insurer. I agree that M would have usually been liable for the hire costs  and would have had 
to recover them from the other drivers insurer. But I dont think  its fair that M has to bear the 
costs of Lloyds  errors until liability is decided and then try to recover  them.  I think Lloyds 
can seek their recovery  once  liability is settled.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to do the 
following:
1.Reimburse M for 40 days hire costs  at £140 a day, adding  interest  at 8% simple per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement and deducting the £500 
already paid. 
2.Deduct from the claim settlement any payment received from the other drivers insurer  
over and above 39 days. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156445