K821x#15complaint
Mrs Vs representative, her husband  Mr V, complains on her behalf about  the unexplained  
delays to the payment of Property Income Distributions (PIDs)  by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Barclays hasnt investigated Mrs Vs complaint properly or provided responses  that 
make sense.  
Barclays should pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  which  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr V accepted the investigators proposal  for trouble and upset but feels  perhaps it should 
be higher as Barclays is compounding  the problem. In summary, he said:
The investigators proposal to pay £150 compensation is, on the face of it, fair and 
reasonable but perhaps it could be higher. 
The complaint  has involved three  or four fruitless webchats, a number  of telephone 
calls and correspondence over a year with Barclays. 
The delay was for 46 weeks before the refund was finally received on 17 February 
2019. 
He questions whether  Barclays  has given false and misleading explanations.  
In response Barclays said:
Its initial offer to pay £100 compensation for trouble  and upset was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
It wouldnt offer any compensation for change in business, so it doesnt think  the 
amount should  be any higher.  
The 6-8 week timeframe  it gave is just a guide,  not a guaranteed timeframe. Once  
HMRC receive the vouchers it has no control over when  it pays  the tax reclaim. 
It confirmed it sent Mrs V a letter of apology explaining the time frames. 
Mr V disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN92677472On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Barclays says I think  the £150 
compensation recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Vs frustration and 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  Mr V has provided detailed  submissions to support the 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs V wont  take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much  detail, 
as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. Its also not my role to 
be a consumer champion or to regulate or penalise a business because its made a mistake. 
Thats the role of the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA). So I hope that 
this will help explain why we take the approach we do. 
My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by Mr V and Barclays,  and reach what I think  
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. In deciding  
whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
In respect of the delay, despite  what Mr V says about the 46 weeks,  Im aware that the 
process can take between  6-8 weeks and even then theres no guarantee. Although I dont 
think Barclays deliberately  set out to mislead Mrs V, it should have managed  her 
expectations better, set out realistic  time scales and provided clear answers. 
In this instance I dont  think  any compensation is due because Barclays  has decided  to 
change its business.  Its generally a matter  for Barclays as to how it runs its business, in the 
exercise of its legitimate  commercial judgement. I dont think  this was the reason why the 
investigator was recommending a greater level of compensation. 
I think £150 compensation  is fair and reasonable, I appreciate  Mr V feels  it should perhaps 
be higher but Barclays has little or no control over the actions of HMRC and when it pays the 
tax reclaim. 
Overall I think  the amount  is fair and reasonable in light of the unhelpful  and unclear 
correspondence provided by Barclays, the numerous phone  calls and webchats Mrs Vs had 
to make to try and resolve the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mrs V £150  compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9267747