K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
Mrs P took out a mortgage with HSBC  in 1995.  At the same  time she was sold a PPI  policy  
which wouldve covered  the repayments  on her mortgage for up to a year at a time if she 
shouldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mrs P says she didnt agree to take the PPI. She says it was added  without her knowledge 
or consent and that she didnt need  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.  Mrs P disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
The PPI was sold nearly 24 years ago, so its not surprising that neither party has any 
documents from the time.  Mrs P says that the mortgage, and therefore likely  the PPI, was 
sold during a meeting. HSBC cant be sure how it was sold,  but Mrs Ps explanation seems 
reasonable to me. 
Mrs P says the PPI must have been  added without her consent. HSBC  says Mrs P would 
only have PPI if she had made an active choice to buy it. HSBC has provided this service 
with a sample copy of the application form that Mrs P would have needed to complete. And 
HSBC explains that Mrs P would also have had to completed a separate  direct debit 
mandate to pay for the premiums. I dont think its likely that Mrs P wouldve had the PPI 
policy without completing these forms. 
Given the length of time that has passed  and the lack of supporting evidence for Mrs Ps 
complaint, I cant safely say that the PPI was added without Mrs Ps consent or that she 
didnt know she had a choice about  it. 
Its not clear whether  HSBC gave Mrs P a personal recommendation to take the PPI, but Ive 
worked on the basis that it did, because it holds HSBC to a higher standard   it would have 
needed to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was right for Mrs P.
Looking at Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale I think that any such  recommendation 
would have been suitable for her. I say this because:
Mrs P was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Ref: DRN92134522Mrs P wouldve  only received statutory sick pay if she was too ill to work. Its unlikely 
this wouldve covered her mortgage and other household expenses for long. The PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to the sick pay and for up to 12 months  at a time. As 
Mrs P was solely  responsible for the mortgage  I think it was important she had 
alternative means to meet her repayments;
Similarly, Mrs P was only entitled to statutory  redundancy pay. Again, the policy  
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months at a time. Its likely that 
Mrs Ps redundancy pay wouldve  only amounted to a few weeks pay, so I think it 
was important Mrs P had another way to make her repayments;
Mrs P explains that she had life and critical illness cover.  But these policies dont 
provide the same cover as the PPI;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled or amended at any time without a 
financial penalty.
Its possible HSBC didnt  give Mrs P all the information she needed about the policy. But I 
dont think even if Mrs P had all the information she needed that shed have made a different 
decision about buying the policy, because  it was suitable for her in the way Ive already 
described. 
So I dont  think Mrs P lost out as a result of anything  HSBC might have done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint so it follows  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc doesnt  have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9213452