K821x#15complaint
Mrs O has complained that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd didnt offer the level of cover as 
described in her policy document. Mrs O sought assistance under her Motor  Breakdown 
policy. Mrs Os son Mr O is representing his mother in her complaint.
Bastion is the insurer. All references to Bastion in my decision include  the claims 
administrator.
background
Mr O called for assistance on Mrs Os behalf  against  her Motor Breakdown  policy  - under the
Home Assist cover. Mr O told Bastion  Mrs Os car wouldnt start.
Bastion told Mr O that he had to choose either for roadside assistance or for recovery.  It told
him Mrs O couldnt have both. So if he chose roadside assistance - and Mrs Os car couldnt
be repaired  - Mrs O would have to pay an additional charge for recovery. Bastion said the
recovery would be treated as a second call out.
Mr O opted for roadside assistance. But he said the policy  wording under Home  Assist 
didnt say what the agent said.  Mr O understood the policy to say that if the mechanic 
couldnt repair the car, it would be recovered  to a nearby garage at no extra cost and not 
treated as a subsequent call out. He said Mrs Os policy wording said the excess  was £25, 
but Bastion charged him £25.99. Mr O had to send a copy of his policy to Bastion.
Bastion told Mr O if he was unsure about  the policy wording  he should contact the broker  
who sold the policy.
The patrol agent was able to repair Mrs Os car at her home address  so recovery wasnt 
required.
Mr O brought his mothers complaint to the broker, who passed it to Bastion as her insurer.
Mr O didnt agree that the policy said what Bastion told Mr O. He said that the garage radius 
limit of 13 miles given by the agent was incorrect. Mrs Os policy gave a radius limit of 25 miles. 
Mr O said he wanted to make sure the policy his mother had chosen provided the level of 
cover they understood shed paid for. 
Bastion arranged for a refund of the overpayment to Mrs O. But it said that if Mrs Os car had 
needed recovery to a garage, it would have been  correctly treated as two call outs. 
Our investigator didnt  think Bastion had been fair. He couldnt see that the policy  said what 
Bastion told Mr O. For the incorrect information  and confusion caused, he recommended 
Bastion pay Mrs O £75 compensation.
Mr O on behalf of Mrs O accepted the investigators recommendation.
Bastion didnt agree. It said it acted correctly. It said Mr O relied on policy wording for an 
earlier policy  with a different insurer, which had since lapsed.
It said Mrs O wasnt  prejudiced by its actions, so it didnt agree it owed any compensation.
Ref: DRN92035412Bastion provided  further information.  It sent us a copy of a Product Information Document 
from the broker. It said this document explains that Mrs O is entitled to either  6 roadside 
assistance call outs or 6 recoveries. So Bastion correctly  told Mr O they are treated as 
separate call outs.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 March 2020 to both Bastion and its claims administrator. 
I considered the Product  Information Document provided. I thought  the documents provided 
by the broker  and insurer said different things about what cover  Mrs O had. 
As Mrs Os complaint relates  to the carrying out of the contract, I relied on the documents  
from the insurer: the policy document wording including  the Key Facts. I thought  Mr Os 
concerns that his mothers  cover wasnt as described  and what  that might mean for any 
future call outs - were  reasonable  and agreed Bastion should pay £75 compensation for the 
distress it had caused. 
Mrs O accepted my provisional  decision.  Bastion didnt  agree. It said Mrs O didnt suffer  any 
financial loss and so no compensation should  be paid. The policy wording says it may assist  
with a second call out. In this case a second call out wasnt required. And if a call out was 
required for recovery due to client error, then it would have correctly  been treated as a 
second call out. Bastion  said it has sole discretion to assist  with a second  call out. It says no 
recovery agent would treat this as one call out. 
It believes any confusion around how the policy works rests with the sale of the policy by the 
broker. Bastion asked us to provide  them with a copy of the broker  Product Information 
document I relied  on in my provisional decision.  However, this is a document Bastion sent to 
us to support  their case.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
Mr O has provided  policy  wording including key facts which  is dated  March 2018 and gives  a 
different insurer name. Bastion provided  two policy wording documents:  one dated 
September 2018 showing Bastion as the insurer which also include key facts (r)  and a 
second policy wording  document from the claims administrator (p). 
My decision  is based  on the two policy  wording  documents provided by Bastion and its 
claims administrator. My overall view is that  even  if the policy wording Mr O provided  is for 
the wrong policy, the correct policy wording  showing Bastion as the insurer   isnt 
consistent with what Mr O was told when he called for assistance. As document (r) is dated  
a month  before Mrs Os policy started,  on balance, Im satisfied that Bastion is the insurer  for 
Mrs Os policy.
Both (r) and (p) policy documents say: 
Ref: DRN92035413If Your Vehicle suffers a Breakdown, We will arrange to send roadside assistance  to 
the scene of the Breakdown and arrange  to pay call out fees and mileage charges 
needed to repair or assist  with the Vehicle. If, in the opinion of Our Breakdown  and 
recovery operator, they are unable to repair the Vehicle at the roadside within 30 
minutes, We may assist  as follows, subject to an additional payment being requested 
from You:
Underneath, Bastion lists the options that the term as follows refers  to. These are; Local
Recovery, National Recovery, Home Assist, and Onward Travel.
So I think the policy wording was clear enough  in that Mrs O may be subject to an additional
payment if her car couldnt be repaired at the roadside within  30 minutes  and she required
further assistance as follows. 
As Mrs Os car had broken down at home,  the relevant option was Home  Assist under the 
silver level of cover.  However, this reads:
Cover applies  within the territorial limits  at or within one mile of Your  home address. 
If We are unable  to effect repairs  or repairs will take longer than 30 minutes, We will
arrange and pay for You, Your Vehicle, and up to 4 passengers to be recovered to 
the nearest Suitable Garage within 25 miles able to undertake the repair.
The wording  under Home  Assist clearly says Bastion will pay for recovery  to the nearest
garage if repairs cant be done  or will take longer than 30 minutes.  
Under the key facts  with policy (r ) Significant  Exclusions and Limitations it says Mrs Os 
silver cover  is limited  to six call outs per year.
But under both policies, it says: 
Callout Limit
You are covered for up to 6 unique callouts during the period of cover.
And it defines unique as limited to a single fault.  Where the same  fault occurs  twice, We 
will only respond where You can prove that the original  fault was rectified  by a Suitable 
Garage and evidenced in writing.
So from reviewing all of the relevant  parts  of both policy wording documents,  I dont think 
they explain that a recovery or assistance will be treated as separate  call outs. And I think 
this is significant.
When Mr O called, Bastion referred him to the following section of the policy:
Breakdown  General  Exclusions
This policy will not apply  for any claim caused by, arising from, or relating to, the 
following:
Subsequent call outs for any symptoms related to a claim which has been made, 
unless Your Vehicle has been  fully repaired at an approved garage.
Ref: DRN92035414But I think the Home  Assist  section  clearly says Bastion will pay if recovery  is required 
where repairs cannot be carried out. So in these circumstances  I dont think the General  
Exclusions term applies.  And I think it wouldnt have been  reasonable for Bastion to treat a 
recovery - if needed - as a second call out. But this is what Bastion told Mr O. It said Mr O 
had to choose between either assistance or recovery.  So I can understand Mr Os concern 
that this situation  could  happen again  for any subsequent call outs his mother made. 
Neither the key facts  document  nor the policy wording under (r) and (p) explains  that Mrs O 
will need  to choose  between either  roadside assistance or recovery to a garage if she calls 
for assistance. Bastions policy doesnt  say that if the repairs arent  possible within 30 
minutes and her car is recovered  to a garage, that this will be treated as two call outs. 
Bastion provided  a copy of a Product Information Document from the broker.  This set
out the brokers summary of the cover  available to Mrs O under the policy  with Bastion. The 
broker says that Mrs O is entitled to either 6 roadside assistance or 6 recovery call outs.  
Bastion says this supports its view that they should be treated as separate call outs.
This document is described as being  a summary of the key information provided to Mrs O in her 
policy documents. In other words, it should  summarise important information that is already 
explained in more detail in the policy wording. However, I dont think  thats the case  here. 
As Bastion told us this document was provided  by the broker, Mrs O can raise  any concerns 
she has about this document with them separately  as it relates  to the sale of the policy. As 
Mrs Os complaint is about the performance of the insurance contract and the policy  
wording, my decision is against the insurer of the policy, Bastion and focuses on the insurer 
policy wording. 
Ive listened to the key calls between  Mr O and Bastion when he called for assistance on his 
mothers behalf. Its clear that he was unhappy  with the information the agent gave him. 
Bastion incorrectly told Mr O the excess was £25.99, that Mrs O would need to pay for 
recovery if her car couldnt  be repaired by the mechanic and that it would be treated as a 
subsequent call out. The agent incorrectly said the garage radius was 13 miles when the 
policy says its 25 miles.  
The mechanic who attended at Mrs Os home was fortunately able to replace the faulty  battery.
In response to my provisional decision,  Bastion said;
The client did not require a second  call out as the vehicle  was repaired. They 
therefore did not call us back to say it was not fixed nor allow us to make  a decision if 
we MAY assist with a second call out. Either way, it would  have  been  a second call 
out as a man in a van with tools (Roadside Assistance) cannot tow the client, and 
had this due to client error, e g. they insisted on roadside assistance  in order to avoid 
a garage repair bill, rather than be towed which may have been the correct option, 
we would have  requested  that they pay for this as they would have forced a decision 
for assistance that would  have been pointless,  and would have acted against their 
general duty to mitigate their losses. We would have  to complete another dispatch of 
a tow truck  to tow the client. Another dispatch  would mean another  call out charge 
and another average waiting time of 60 - 90 minutes  for the client.  No recovery agent 
will treat this as one call out, which is why we have exclusions against this. However,  
we appreciate that not everyone  gets the call right which is why we may assist with 
a second call up.
Ref: DRN92035415But the fact remains  that the policy says under Home Assist that Bastion will arrange and 
pay for recovery if Mrs Os car couldnt be repaired at home or if repairs  take longer than 30 
minutes. So I think its irrelevant as to whether the first agent has the correct  tools or vehicle.  
So based  on the policy wording provided  under  both (r) and (p), I think  Bastion  gave  Mr O 
incorrect information. I dont think the policy says that a customer is required to choose 
either roadside assistance or repair. I think it says under Home Assist that if repairs  cant  be 
done, Bastion  will pay for recovery.  And I cant find anywhere in either  policy;  (r) or (p) that it 
says this will be treated as a second call out. 
So I think Mrs O was put to unnecessary worry and inconvenience. Mr O explained  that Mrs O 
needed assurance as to the level of cover  shed bought  and what  would happen in the event 
of any subsequent claim for assistance.  I think those concerns were understandable.
My view is that the information  Bastion  gave  Mr O when he called for assistance isnt in line
with what Mrs Os policy says. So for this reason, I think Bastion should pay compensation. 
Bastion says:
Were happy to apologise, by way of compensation to the client,  if they feel we caused them 
distress, but I would highlight that we have caused them  no financial loss and their issues  
appear to be confusion around  how the policy they bought works. That is not a complaint 
that is in my gift to address  as we only deal with the claims, not the sales of the policies.
However, as explained  in my provisional  decision,  the compensation award isnt for financial 
loss. It is to reflect the worry and upset caused by the incorrect information provided by 
Bastion. 
I think a reasonable  sum is £75, which Mrs O accepts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay 
Mrs O £75 compensation for giving incorrect information when she sought assistance under 
her Motor Breakdown policy.
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which
we tell it Mrs O accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate
of 8% a year.
If Bastion  Insurance Co. Ltd considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs O how much  its taken off. It should
also give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Ref: DRN92035416Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9203541