K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited (Carnegie) wont allow him to 
end a credit  agreement he has with them. He says he was pressured into taking the 
agreement out and it was misrepresented to him and he also says the course  quality has not 
been of an acceptable standard.
background
Mr Os first language is not English. He signed up for an electricians training course in June 
2016 with a company Ill call T. He said he was told he could cancel the agreement  at any 
time and that he wasnt told it was being funded through a fixed sum loan with Carnegie.  He 
also explained that the salesperson pressured  him into signing up. So he told Carnegie he 
wanted to withdraw  from the course.
But Carnegie wouldnt let him. They said he hadnt withdrawn within the requisite cooling  off 
period and they noted that hed accessed the course  53 times and had completed six 
homework assignments.  Whilst  they understood he hadnt accessed the course now for 12 
months they didnt think this was a reason to cancel the credit agreement. They thought  it 
likely that Mr O had understood he was entering  a fixed sum loan agreement  and that the 
terms and cancellation  rights would have been explained to him.
So Mr O referred  his complaint to this service. He explained that the sales agent had visited  
his home  and told him there were  very limited  places left on the course  and had pressured 
him to sign up. He insisted hed been told he could  withdraw at any time. Our investigator 
considered the rules,  set by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regarding credit  related 
activities. These suggest the lender  may need  to consider using alternative methods of 
communication when  the consumer didnt have  a good understanding of English. She wasnt  
persuaded that Carnegie hadnt considered  alternative methods so she went  on to consider 
what would  have happened if they had and Mr O was in possession  of all the information. 
She thought  that even if that was the case it was most likely that Mr O wouldve still signed  
the credit  agreement and entered himself  on the course. She was satisfied Mr O would have  
taken the course  because  she reviewed his statement and it was clear he wanted to take a 
qualification that would help his career prospects  in London. And she noted the credit was 
provided at 0% APR so she thought  it likely it would have been cheaper than obtaining the 
credit via alternative means,  such as a credit  card.  And it was therefore likely Mr O wouldve 
taken out the credit  agreement with Carnegie.  
The investigator went on to consider  Mr Os complaints about the quality of the course. Hed 
complained that the tutor wasnt always available or took too long to get back to him. But our 
investigator noted that the agreement didnt guarantee tutor support and she therefore didnt 
think there was evidence the contract  had been  breached.
But Mr O disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN96776402Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant  legislation  allows Mr O an equal right to claim against the supplier of a service  
or the provider of credit, if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Here hes making  a claim against  the provider of credit, Carnegie.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes a consumer to go ahead  with 
the contract. A breach of contract is where  the supplier fails to do what the contract  says.
misrepresentation
Mr O has explained that English  isnt his first language  and in those circumstances I think it 
would have helped  if Carnegie had considered alternative methods of communication. But I 
therefore need to consider whether Mr O would have signed  up for the training course if he 
had been able to benefit from a clearer explanation of the contract he was entering  into. 
Mr O has explained he wanted  to take a qualification to improve his employment  prospects  
in London. As hes an electrician in his home country I think  its reasonable to suggest hed 
be looking  to gain a qualification in that area in the UK. So I think  the course he signed up for 
would have been of interest: on completion he would have been fully qualified to train as an 
electrician in the UK. He wasnt being  asked  to pay any interest  on the loan he obtained so I 
also think its likely he would have entered into the fixed sum loan agreement with Carnegie 
as it was likely he wouldnt have been  able to get it any cheaper elsewhere.  And its clear  
that, at least initially,  Mr O engaged  with the course.  He completed several homework 
sessions and frequently logged on to the system, so its clear the course was of interest to 
him.
For those reasons I think Mr O would have been most likely to have signed up for the course 
even if more care had been  taken to communicate  the agreement.
breach of contract
Mr O has complained that the quality of the course wasnt  what he expected. Hes said he 
expected the tutor to be more available and he had to wait too long for his assignments to be 
returned. 
But Im not persuaded theres been a breach of contract. Ive not seen evidence to suggest 
the response rates were  unsatisfactory  and I can see that Mr O seems to have been 
recording good scores  on his assignments and progressing well. He didnt  complain to the 
college and they were not aware  he was dissatisfied  until they received a request to cancel 
his agreement 14 months after inception. 
So I dont  think Carnegie need to take any further action here.  
Ref: DRN96776403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9677640