K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2001 when he took out a credit  card.
background
Mr K took out a credit card in branch  in 2001.  At the same time he took out a PPI policy.
This policy cost no more than £0.79 per £100  of the outstanding balance on the credit card.  
On a successful claim it would have paid up to 5% of that balance if he was off work through  
an accident, sickness or if he lost his job for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed  with this view 
and asked that an ombudsman look again at his complaint to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Although  I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed with 
my decision  I will explain why.
Mr K says he wasnt aware until recently he had the policy-  the sale was all very 
rushed and he cant recall  PPI being mentioned. Hes told us he feels he was taken 
advantage of - the policy must  have  been added without his knowledge  or consent.
But Ive taken into account the evidence  that is available, together  with what  the 
parties have told me and what  we know about the sales at the time. Overall  I think 
Lloyds made  it clear that Mr K didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after such  a long 
time.
I say this because  Lloyds has provided a copy of Mr Ks credit card and PPI 
application form. I can see that the form has been completed with Mr Ks details and 
under the section headed Asset Payment Protection the box to take out the cover 
has been ticked. Mr K could have ticked the box no if he didnt want the PPI. The 
box for when Mr K wanted his monthly  statements  has also been completed with 
Mr Ks preference. And the form has been  signed and dated by Mr K. I think  he most 
likely read the form before  he signed  it and agreed  to the contents of the form.
I also think Mr K would have received monthly  statements  which recorded his PPI 
separately. So if he didnt want it or didnt know he had it he could have questioned it 
with Lloyds at any time.  I havent seen that he did so. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
Ref: DRN97367212cover  he was in employment and in good health and he seems  to have had a need  
for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr K, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said - including what hes said about his family 
members being able to help him if he lost his job or couldnt work and about  him being young 
and wanting to take out the card for the credit available. But these points dont change my 
decision.
The PPI was in Mr Ks name so he was responsible for the monthly repayments. And 
although his family might  have wanted to help, such type of help cant  always be guaranteed 
particularly for longer  periods. So I still think the policy could  have been  useful if Mr K fell into 
difficulty.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9736721