K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the administration  of a Chelsea  Building  Society  (CBS)-branded  
mortgage held with Yorkshire  Building  Society by Mr P. Hes unhappy that since 2012 CBS 
has treated his mortgaged  property as being let out and applied an interest rate surcharge.
background
Mr P took the mortgage out in 2004. In 2007,  Mr P notified CBS that he was longer living  in 
the mortgaged  property. By virtue of a declaration of trust, all rights of occupation (and the 
right to sell) now vested in Mr Ps former  partner, whom Ill call Mr W. Mr P wanted to know if 
CBS could force a sale but it said that could only happen in the event of possession  being 
granted because  of arrears. In 2010, CBS was acquired by Yorkshire  Building Society, and 
the two organisations mortgage  conditions were  harmonised.
In 2012, CBS wrote saying it believed Mr P was letting the property out without permission, 
and unless he sought and was granted permission,  it would apply a 2% loading to the 
interest rate. When Mr P reminded CBS of the arrangement that had been  in place since  
2007, it still applied  the loading. In 2014,  it wrote to say the loading  would be reduced to 
1.15%.
The following  year,  Mr P asked about a new rate product for the mortgage and was told he 
wasnt eligible because of the non-residency status.  He complained at the time and it was 
resolved informally  without any change being  made.
Mr P raised the complaint  again recently;  CBS wrote to him in January 2019 explaining that 
by, in all but name, giving away the property without first getting CBS written  consent, Mr P 
had breached his mortgage conditions. Hed granted Mr W an interest in the security 
property and parted with possession of it. That had the same effect as letting  the property 
out, thus allowing CBS to load the rate.
This time, Mr P brought  his complaint to us. The investigator who looked into it didnt 
recommend it be upheld; Mr P has asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Mr P described the investigator as having  made  his argument on behalf  of CBS; if thats 
what he thinks has happened, he is very much  mistaken. Were impartial,  and we dont take 
either sides instructions  on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations 
and reach  our conclusions without  interference from anyone else.  But in doing  so, we have 
to work within the rules  of the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules  give us. 
The investigator wasnt making an argument on behalf of CBS; he was setting out his own 
conclusions based  on the evidence and having  due regard for relevant  law, regulation and 
the terms of the underlying contract between Mr P and CBS.  Thats  what  Ive also done, and 
in doing so, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN93716792This complaint is much simpler  than its been made to look.  The crux of Mr Ps argument  that 
hes been treated  unfairly seems to be based on the notion  that the declaration of trust was 
created before CBS had the right to apply  an interest rate loading.  Again, Im afraid,  Mr P is 
very much mistaken. 
Mortgages are, by their very nature,  long-term  contracts, and the general conditions  that 
govern them  have to be capable of being  varied, in order to take account of changes in the 
legal, regulatory  and economic climate over time. The generally accepted  position  is that 
borrowers are bound by the terms and conditions in force from time to time,  provided  lenders 
have sent them a copy of the latest edition. Im satisfied CBS did that following  the merger.
What that means,  in practical terms, is that even if the capacity to apply a loading didnt 
existing before the harmonisation of terms and conditions following the 2010 takeover by 
Yorkshire (and Ill come to that in a moment) that term would still apply  to Mr P in respect of 
the arrangement  he entered  into in 2007.  But the reality in any event is that CBS already had 
the right to charge Mr P a higher rate before the 2010 merger.
CBS has provided a copy of a General  Mortgage Officer Conditions  document that predates 
the merger. Under  the heading  Provisions  as to Variation of Interest , section 2.a.(v) 
allows CBS to change  the rate of interest to be paid to reflect any change in the way the 
property is used or occupied. From  the date in 2007 that Mr P changed the way the 
property was being occupied, CBS had the right, within the contract  between  it and Mr P, to 
apply an interest rate loading.
Theres something else to consider here.  Mr P didnt just allow Mr W rights  of occupation 
over the mortgaged property; by virtue of the 2007  declaration of trust,  he also granted  Mr W 
a legal interest in the property (potentially at least  Mr P might  want  to get specialist legal 
advice on the enforceability of the declaration of trust given the prior existence of the 
mortgage) without first obtaining CBS consent. That, in and of itself,  is a separate  breach of 
the mortgage contract. 
Of course,  having the right to do something is only part of what  I have to take into account. 
I must also if, by exercising that right, CBS treated Mr P fairly.  That too, is a simpler decision 
to make than it might  look. Its important here to remember that CBS lent Mr P money in 
2004 believing that he intended  to live in the mortgaged property. CBS believed that 
because thats  what was on Mr Ps mortgage  application. CBS could take what  Mr P told it in 
good faith, and its likely  thats what Mr P intended doing at the time. 
The conditions of the mortgage  were  for Mr P to meet, but he hasnt done so since 2007. 
Once he informed  it of the change of circumstances in 2007,  CBS could have charged Mr P 
a non-residential  rate of interest. That it only started  doing so in 2012 (and has told us it has 
no plans to apply  it retrospectively for the earlier period) means Mr P has therefore  gained a 
financial advantage  from CBS not holding  him strictly to the mortgage conditions  
immediately.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN93716793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9371679