K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained about Southern  Rock  Insurance Companys handling  of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Southern  Rock includes their agents.
background
Miss C had car insurance with Southern Rock which she had taken out through an insurance 
broker in June 2017 (2017 policy). Miss Cs policy with Southern Rock renewed in June 
2018 (2018  policy).
At the end of 2017, Miss C changed her occupation but didnt tell Southern Rock. Sometime 
after the start of her 2018 policy, I understand that Miss C was involved in an incident with 
another car. She reported that to Southern  Rock,  although I understand that no claims were 
made as a result of the incident. It was during that discussion Miss C had with Southern 
Rock that they found out about her change of occupation.
Southern Rock said that had they known about Miss Cs change of occupation  from the start 
of the 2018 policy, they would have charged  her an additional premium  (AP) of £460.56. 
They asked Miss C to pay that amount. But Miss C didnt think that was fair. She said she 
didnt know she had to tell them; she felt that her change of occupation was insignificant; and 
that she mostly walked  to work. Shortly after, Southern Rock deducted £460.56  from Miss 
Cs account without  her permission. They also told her that they would be notifying the fraud 
detection and prevention  agencies. Miss C complained but Southern  Rock  said they hadnt 
done anything  wrong. 
Miss C brought  her complaint to our service.  One of our adjudicators looked into it. He felt 
that Southern  Rock  hadnt treated Miss C fairly. He said Southern Rock shouldnt have 
deducted the AP without  Miss Cs agreement. He suggested Southern Rock should  pay  
Miss C £100 compensation. As the policy was still active  at the time Miss C brought her 
complaint to us, our adjudicator said that if Miss C was still unhappy with the AP she should 
cancel her policy. And if she cancelled her policy, Southern Rock should  refund  her the AP 
together with interest. As Miss C had told our adjudicator that Southern  Rock  unexpectedly 
withdrawing the AP from her account caused her difficulty, our adjudicator  also suggested  
that Southern  Rock  should pay Miss C any costs  she incurred as a result. By that he meant 
any overdraft penalties  and interest  Miss C may have been  charged by going overdrawn as 
a result of the AP being taken. Our adjudicator did ask Miss C to show  Southern  Rock  
evidence of any such charges before they were required to pay. 
As Southern  Rock  didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 23 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why. I must decide  if Southern Rock have dealt with Miss C 
in a fair and reasonable  way.
Ref: DRN97780522Southern Rock have said that what Miss C did by not disclosing her change  of 
occupation amounted to, what is known in the insurance industry, a reckless 
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers 
may do if there is a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. It says that insurers:
may avoid (treat as though it never existed) the insurance contract and refuse all 
claims, and
need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it 
would be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
But on discovering that Miss C didnt  tell them about her change  of occupation, 
Southern Rock didnt avoid the policy. Instead  they deducted the AP from her 
account. And in a letter from one of their agents to Miss C, Southern Rock said: we 
will be passing information relating to this incident to various fraud detection  and 
prevention agencies  I would expect an insurer to notify fraud  agencies  in the event 
a customer has made  a deliberate misrepresentation. So, while  Southern Rock 
expressly told our service that they believed Miss C made a reckless 
misrepresentation, I think they have implied that she may have made a deliberate 
misrepresentation, which is why I believe they said they would report  her to the fraud  
agencies.
Given the remedies  available  to an insurer under CIDRA, namely they can treat the 
insurance contract as though it never existed and not refund the premium, a 
deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation is serious. A deliberate misrepresentation 
can have very serious consequences that can extend beyond  those  outlined  under 
CIDRA. An individual reported to the fraud agencies is likely to suffer a detrimental 
impact to their financial affairs. For example, they can be refused  credit or even not 
be allowed to open a bank account.  
For reasons I will explain,  while I think Miss C made a misrepresentation by not 
telling Southern Rock she had changed her occupation, I dont believe it was 
deliberate or reckless.  I believe it was careless. CIDRA says a misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless  if the consumer:
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was 
untrue or misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant 
to the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
CIDRA goes onto say that a misrepresentation is careless if it is not deliberate  or 
reckless.
Miss C said that her policy renewed automatically  in June 2018, and there  was no 
discussion with Southern Rock. On this point our adjudicator noted that at renewal 
Southern Rock didnt ask Miss C if she had changed  her occupation.  In other  words,  
she wasnt asked a clear  question,  which is often  what our service  expects to see 
where misrepresentation is alleged. But CIDRA specifically says that: a failure by the 
consumer to comply with the insurers request  to confirm or amend particulars 
previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for the purposes of this Act. 
In Miss Cs case, Southern Rock sent her a welcome pack in which  they told her to 
please take a careful look at your policy documents and make sure all the 
Ref: DRN97780523information we have for you is correct.  And one of the policy documents they sent 
her was the the key facts which said, this is your motor insurance  policy  summary; 
it contains the key information about your policy  that you should read. It also said:
The terms of your policy and premium are based  on the information you have 
given us. Please  tell us immediately if there are any changes to the 
information set out in the Statement  of Fact, Certificate of Motor  Insurance or 
on your Schedule... Examples of changes to your policy include a change of 
your car, address, occupation  [my emphasis].
The expectation is that customers, like Miss C, should read their policy documents  to 
make sure all the details are correct.  And if theyre  not, they should tell their insurer.  
But Im aware that some  customers dont read their policy documents and dont 
appreciate that certain changes are important.  Miss C told our service  that she 
thought changing occupation was insignificant  and that she didnt think  it would 
have any adverse effect in my policy price as I had infact reduced my hours and I 
walk to work
I doubt Miss C read her policy documentation and even if she did, I dont think she 
gave it much consideration. Had she given any thought to the matter,  Miss C would  
have known that representing  to Southern  Rock  that she was still in her old 
occupation was untrue.  But that on its own isnt sufficient under CIDRA to mean that 
her misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless. CIDRA requires that Miss C also 
either knew that her occupation was relevant to Southern Rock or that she didnt care 
whether or not it was relevant. But I cant say that she knew or that she didnt care.  
Once the issue was brought to her attention, Miss C said she didnt think her change 
in occupation  would  impact her premium because she didnt drive to work. So, I think 
she didnt know that her job was important to Southern Rock. So, I intend to find that 
Miss Cs misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless. But, as Ive already said,  
there was a misrepresentation as she failed  to correct her occupation on renewal  of 
her policy.  Therefore the misrepresentation  was careless. CIDRA says that where 
theres a careless  misrepresentation, insurers may:
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  
(or apply other exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if 
the consumer  isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy 
themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although 
we think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of them paying the 
additional premium  which would mean  the insurer would then settle any claim in full 
instead of settling the claim proportionately.  But that can only happen  if the 
policyholder is happy  with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the 
policyholder theres  a problem and give them the option of paying the additional 
premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they 
want to take out insurance later on.
Ref: DRN97780524In Miss Cs case, Im satisfied that if Southern Rock were aware  that shed changed 
occupation they would have charged  her the full premium, including  the AP, from the 
start of her policy. When Miss C was told she would be charged an AP she said she 
wasnt happy with that. And while she disputed it, Southern Rock deducted the AP 
from her account without her permission.  That wasnt  something Southern Rock were 
allowed to do under CIDRA. What would have been  fair for Southern Rock to do 
would have been to tell Miss C that if she didnt  pay the AP they may reduce any 
future claims  she may have proportionately  or that she could cancel the policy 
herself. But they did neither. So I dont think Southern Rock  acted  reasonably. I 
therefore intend to uphold  this complaint.
I understand that after our adjudicators involvement  Miss C cancelled  her policy 
because she wasnt happy  with continuing the policy at the increased cost.  So, to put 
things right, I intend to require Southern Rock to refund  Miss C the £460.56 AP if 
they havent already done so. Southern  Rock  should also pay simple interest on that 
amount at a rate of 8% a year from the date they withdrew it from Miss Cs account 
until the date of refund. On Miss C providing evidence, Southern Rock should  also 
consider any reasonable costs and interest  she may have been charged  by her bank, 
such as penalties for going overdrawn. If Miss C was reported to any fraud agencies 
as a result  of the issues in this complaint, Southern Rock  should contact the relevant 
agencies to correct  their records. There shouldnt be any records suggesting that 
Miss C acted fraudulently,  or that she made  a deliberate  or reckless 
misrepresentation in relation to her occupation in connection to her policies with 
Southern Rock. Finally,  Im aware that this matter has been a source of distress and 
inconvenience to Miss C. I think the letter  informing  her that she would be reported to 
fraud agencies must have  been  particularly upsetting. I therefore intend to require 
Southern Rock to pay Miss C £200 compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Neither Southern  Rock  nor Miss C 
commented.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Southern  Rock  Insurance 
Company to:
Refund Miss C the £460.56 AP if they havent already done so. Southern  Rock  
should also pay simple  interest  on that amount at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
they withdrew it from Miss Cs account  until the date of refund.1
1 If Southern  Rock consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss C how much they have  taken  off. They should also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN97780525Consider any reasonable costs  and interest  Miss C may have been charged  by her 
bank, such as penalties for going  overdrawn. Miss C must provide evidence to 
Southern Rock before they can consider this.
If Miss C was reported to any fraud agencies as a result of the issues  in this 
complaint, Southern  Rock should  contact  the relevant agencies to correct their 
records. There shouldnt be any records suggesting that Miss C acted fraudulently, or 
that she made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation in relation to her occupation  
in connection  to her policies  with Southern  Rock.  Southern Rock should provide   
Miss C with a letter confirming either that no reports were made to any fraud 
agencies or, if any such reports were made, that they have been removed.
Pay Miss C £200  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Miss C has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9778052