K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited did not review the charges for 
taking online payments or say that it could  do so every 12 months.
background
B entered  into an agreement with WorldPay in 2004  so that it could accept  online  card 
payments. It says that one of the monthly charges  the Merchant Guarantee  fee - is now 
more than the value of card payments it takes.  And that WorldPay should  have  arranged  a 
rate review.  It says it asked it to do so when  the credit control department contacted  it about  
arrears in 2014.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-B selected the services it wanted when it applied and WorldPay  had no record  that it 
had asked  for a review  or for any services to be removed.
-WorldPay had provided an email it sent to B in 2013 following Bs enquiry about one 
element of its charges  the Merchant Guarantee Fee. This explained what  the charge 
was and where to find further detail about it online.
-In 2015 B raised a complaint about  a different matter and there is no record  it requested 
a rate review at that time.
-WorldPay has said it does not actively offer a rate review for its online card processing  
service. B would have  needed to explicitly request  this in writing.
-The online account was on a rolling one month  notice period so B could ask that it be 
closed if it believed  it was no longer  suitable. And a charge that was taken annually 
would be refunded on a pro rata basis.
-WorldPay had offered in its final response to conduct a rate review now
B did not agree. A director of B said that it had paid over £1,400 in charges for a product that 
was not suitable. Companies  like WorldPay should  be helping  small businesses  especially in 
the current climate. WorldPay had not acknowledged previous correspondence in the 
response to the complaint in 2018. The possibility of a rate review was not stated in the 
terms and conditions - so how could B know about it? And it was not reasonable that such a 
request had to be in writing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the initial application by B in 2004  that its monthly internet turnover was then 
expected to be up to £5,000. Clearly based  on what it now says there  is very little such  
turnover. And most relating to cards is taken through a separate card processing agreement. 
Thats linked to handheld terminals and Im not looking at that agreement here. I note though 
that the director of B says that its been offered a rate review on that agreement  in the past 
when its contacted customer services.
The charges  for the online service have been visible to B. As the adjudicator says WorldPay  
responded to a question about  the Merchant guarantee in 2013.  And B was not tied into the 
agreement beyond the need to give a months notice.
Ref: DRN92955052Theres no contractual requirement  for WorldPay to review these charges for online card 
processing with B. The extent of its agreement is set out in the terms and conditions. WorldPay 
has no record that B has asked for a rate review before  now.  And if it had and was not satisfied 
with the response  it was free to escalate this and complain  as it did about  a different issue in 
2015. Theres also no certainty what the result  of a rate review  would have been.  
I understand Bs point that the credit control  department was only proactive about getting  it 
to pay outstanding fees. And not in reviewing whether the agreement  was suitable and why 
the arrears have developed in the first place. Im afraid that I cant  find it made a mistake  
though. Its processes are not something we regulate   and it was a matter for WorldPay  to 
make a commercial decision about  the nature and prices of any services  it offered and 
whether to review  them.
I appreciate B will be dissatisfied  with my response. But I dont have a reasonable basis  to 
require WorldPay to refund all or any of these charges as B wants.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9295505