K822xcomplaint
Miss C and Mr R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc caused delays to the 
repairs to their house following a claim they made  on their insurance policy.  Theyre also 
unhappy with the work  undertaken by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs contractors.
background 
Miss C brings this complaint on behalf of her and her partner, Mr R. Because of this, I will 
refer to her throughout. 
This complaint relates to the issues Miss C has complained about after RSA issued its final 
response on 13 April 2018  until she raised  this new complaint  in July 2018. The issues  shes  
complained about before  this are the subject of a separate complaint.
Miss C has a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with RSA.  Her home experienced 
damage as a result of a fire in the next door property  in April 2017. She made a claim on her 
buildings insurance  policy and RSA agreed  to cover the claim.
Miss C complained about a number of issues not covered by RSAs first final response.  
These were, in summary,  
RSA hadnt  complied with the time limits  around how it should  handle complaints
the work  carried out by RSAs contractors had not been  up to standard and this 
caused delays  to the repairs to her home
she experienced problems with the alternative  accommodation  she and her family 
were staying  in
Shes had to make alternative arrangements to undertake her laundry
Our investigator considered the evidence put forward  by both sides and said,  in summary, 
he thought the £500  RSA offered Miss C was fair in the circumstances. 
He also went on to explain  that RSA would continue  to pay its displacement  allowance,  
would make alternative arrangements for her laundry to be done and, once Miss C was back  
in her home, would  make  a further  a payment to reflect the inconvenience caused by the 
problems with the laundry.
Miss C didnt agree and said this didnt fairly reflect the trouble and inconvenience she had 
experienced. So she asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Miss C will be 
disappointed so Ill explain  my reasoning.
Its clear from her correspondence Miss C would  like my decision to have an impact  on the 
business. But this services remit doesnt extend to fining or punishing businesses.  
Ref: DRN98976612My role as an ombudsman is to make  a determination as to how complaints should be 
resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on the crux of the 
complaint and will only refer to the things  I consider relevant to that.
Where there is no dispute between  the parties  as to the circumstances of the complaint, and 
where a business  accepts  that its service fell short of what it ought to have delivered, theres 
no need for me to make a finding  on these things.  I will instead focus my intention  on 
anything thats  still in dispute. In this case,  thats mainly the level of compensation RSA 
should pay Miss C for the impact of the problems it caused between  13 April 2018 and 7 July 
2018.
RSAs handling  of Miss Cs complaint
On one occasion, due to a communication breakdown between  RSA and its loss assessors, 
a complaint wasnt recorded  and consequently  a Summary Resolution Communication 
wasnt sent. On another, RSA didnt respond  within the appropriate timelines.
RSA accepts it didnt  handle Miss Cs complaint as well as it should  have.
the contractors  workmanship and the consequent delays 
Miss C has listed  a number of issues which have led her to say the standard of the 
workmanship of RSAs  various contractors hasnt been what  it should be. These included 
problems with a wall that she says should  have been rebuilt but which she says wasnt.  
Miss C was also unhappy with the delays in the work getting started.
Again RSA accepts  that things havent been  handled as well as they should have been and 
it agreed for a further new contractor to take over the job and to complete the remainder of 
the work.
alternative accommodation
Miss C points out that she, her partner and her daughter have been sharing one hotel room. 
And this is at the time her daughters doing  exams. Theyve also experienced the theft of 
some money from the room and have complained of bed bugs.
RSA says the hotel  Miss C is staying is one of her choosing. I accept that staying in a hotel 
for an extended period of time though is very inconvenient and Ive borne this in mind  when 
reaching my decision. 
Im satisfied the matters  of the theft and the bed bugs are not RSAs responsibility  although  I 
accept that these things added further  discomfort for Miss C and her family. I understand the 
theft and the bed bugs  were reported  to the Police  and hotel respectively and they have 
been dealing  with them. They seem to be the most  appropriate courses of action in the 
circumstances.
laundry
Miss C says shes  had to undertake the laundry at her mothers house as theres no washing 
machine at her house. This has resulted  in an 80 mile round trip each time.  RSA said it 
wasnt aware of this and has now confirmed it will agree a further payment to reflect the 
inconvenience caused by this issue, once  Miss Cs back in her house. 
Miss C may of course have further  cause to complain if she isnt happy with this offer.  
Ref: DRN98976613RSAs offer of compensation
RSA has offered Miss C £500 in recognition of its failings and the problems shes 
experienced including those with the contractors and the subsequent delays.
In addition to this, RSAs has given its assurance  it will agree a further  payment  for the 
inconvenience Miss Cs experienced in relation to her laundry. And its said it will make  
alternative arrangements for Miss Cs laundry going forward.
And its said it will continue to pay the agreed daily disturbance  allowance until shes  able to 
move back  into her home. I note RSA has made  a commercial  decision to do this as its not 
something its required to do under the terms of the policy.
I realise Miss C doesnt think  this reflects the inconvenience shes  been put to. Ive thought  
about this carefully  though and taking everything into account,  Im satisfied  its a fair and 
reasonable way for these issues to be settled.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Royal and Sun Alliance  Plc to 
pay Miss C and Mr R £500
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9897661