K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) failed to process  his request to transfer his 
ISA to another provider promptly or correctly,  and then failed to deal with his complaint.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not believe his complaint should be upheld, and explained 
his reasoning in detail.
Firstly, he said hed not seen sufficient evidence to fairly conclude that Mr E had originally 
complained in April 2018 and that BoS had ignored this letter nor did he feel its subsequent 
handling of his complaint  was manifestly  unsatisfactory.
Secondly, he did not believe  BoS had clearly  done  anything wrong regarding the cheque 
issue. He ran through the time-line of what he believed had happened,  concluding that he 
couldnt be certain exactly what happened but, on balance, he didnt believe BoS was 
responsible for the admitted delay in completing the transfer.
He therefore didnt believe it should pay compensation for any potential investment  loss.
Mr E did not agree,  and expanded on his argument  that BoS had ignored his first complaint 
letter, not dealt  with the subsequent one properly  and the regulatory importance of this. He 
also said:
He had never had the advantage  of knowing the cheque numbers so he could only 
speculate but a cheque was presented for payment and returned unpaid,  presumably 
because it had been stopped
He believes cheque  .71 was issued and went missing  in the post.  Eventually  
cheque .06  was issued as a replacement. This was received and banked, but 
returned unpaid  (because it was stopped).  BoS must know  if it stopped its own 
cheque
He does not believe that BoS has been  clear  and honest, and its defence  lacks  
credibility
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I agree with the adjudicator about  the complaint  letter issue. I have  not seen sufficient 
to reach  a conclusion that BoS did something wrong. More importantly, complaints handling 
is not a regulated activity as defined in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook 
i.e. not something  this service can investigate and potentially award compensation for any 
failures.
The FCA does require  businesses  to have complaints handling processes but its its job to 
oversee this requirement, and any complaints concerning a general failure to do so would be 
considered by it. As far as I am aware,  it does not address individual complaints about a 
particular, one-off failure.
Ref: DRN95751042Secondly, its important  to explain  that my role, when  considering  a complaint,  is to decide 
whether a business clearly did something wrong  or made a mistake, not whether it might 
have done things differently. In this context  I do not think  there is sufficient evidence to safely 
conclude that BoS did. 
I recognise that the picture is uncomplete but I have not seen sufficient, persuasive evidence  
to fairly conclude that BoS explanation  was necessarily wrong.  Crucially,  BoS says it cannot 
cancel a cheque  once it has been  presented so it is more likely than not that it was the new 
provider which initiated the second  cancellation  and need for a third cheque.  I believe this is 
correct. Given this I dont think it can be held responsible for the delays in this transfer.
On balance I share the adjudicators view about what probably happened, as he outlined  in 
his View. It is not for me to consider whether  the new provider  did something wrong but I 
have not seen enough evidence to conclude that BoS did.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9575104