K822xcomplaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the amount of compensation Nationwide Building  Society  (NBS), 
offered following a complaint about a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
by Mr M in 2007. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
NBS got due to the PPI. This is because Mr Ms representatives have confirmed Mr Ms 
complaint to our service is solely about that. Ive only looked at whether the offer NBS has 
made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
NBS said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair  
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr M paid each  month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr M for the time he was out of pocket. 
Mr M has said he should receive all the commission and profit share back because he 
wasnt told that NBS would receive any commission. But NBS has done what  the rules it 
must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ms particular complaint and 
circumstances that means NBS should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling NBS to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Nationwide Building Society has correctly  worked out what it 
needs to pay Mr M. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  update  and pay its offer to Mr M if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Ref: DRN90231802Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9023180