K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that Eldon Insurance Services Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
Mr T is represented  by Ms N. References  to Eldon Insurance Services Limited include all its 
trading names.
background
When Mr T took out this policy with Eldon,  it asked him to provide his drivers licence 
summary. But English  isnt Mr Ts first language, so he was unsure what  exactly Eldon 
wanted. 
Therefore, as Mr T didnt  provide exactly what Eldon wanted, it cancelled  his policy. It also 
asked him to pay the outstanding balance of £201.17.
Ms N tried to sort out the matter with Eldon on Mr Ts behalf but it refused to change  its 
stance. So she brought Mr Ts complaint to us.
The investigator recommended  Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She thought  Eldon  
should remove the cancellation  marker  from his insurance record and it should write him a 
letter so that Mr Ts new insurers could refund the increase it most likely charged him as a 
result of the cancellation.  She also thought Eldon should pay Mr T compensation of £200.
Mr T thought Eldon  should pay the difference between  its policy and his new policy. Eldon 
said it had explained  what it required  to Mr T by email, which also provided  a link for him to 
be able get the drivers licence summary. As nether party agreed, Mr Ts complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
It clear to me from the transcripts of the call recordings that Mr T simply didnt  understand 
what Eldon  required  him to do or indeed how to access  his drivers licence summary. This is 
because its clear that English wasnt Mr Ts first language.  I would have liked the 
opportunity to listen to the call recordings  myself, but Eldon didnt provide further  copies of 
these calls recordings given the originals became corrupted. Its also clear  on the calls that 
Mr T wanted to provide  whatever  it was that Eldon required. 
Given its clear  Mr T simply didnt understand what Eldon required of him, I cant see that it 
was reasonable  to then send him a further email  with a link. Its obvious  Mr T didnt 
understand Eldons previous written requests, so I cant  see why Eldon thought he would  
understand a further written request. I also dont think  its reasonable when that email 
obviously didnt help Mr Ts comprehension  of the requirements, that Eldon then cancelled  
his policy, requiring Mr T to pay the outstanding balance.  That was a disproportionate action 
by Eldon when  its so clear the whole  problem was that Mr T simply didnt understand 
Eldons requirements  and Mr T was persistently asking for clarification of its requirements.
Ref: DRN94056642It could have asked  Mr T to get someone  else to phone it so it could have explained and it 
should have given Mr T more time in these circumstances  to sort it all out. Its unpalatable to 
me that Eldon appeared to take advantage of his lack of English fluency in this way.
As Eldon is only too aware, having  a cancellation  on ones insurance record causes serious  
repercussions not just for future motor policies  but for any other type of insurance policy as 
Mr T will have to disclose this cancellation.  Therefore, I consider that Eldon should  remove 
the cancellation marker from Mr Ts record, explaining his policy  was cancelled due to its 
own error. It should also write a letter to Mr T explaining this, so he can show  it to his 
subsequent insurers.
Most insurers will increase the premium  amount required when a policy has been cancelled  
like this. Consequently, if Mr T has had to pay increased premiums due to this cancellation  
those subsequent insurers should be able to refund the extra premium on the basis of this 
letter from Eldon. However  if those  insurers confirm Mr T is due a refund but they cant now 
effect that refund for whatever reason, I consider that Eldon should provide the relevant 
refund in those  circumstances adding interest  of 8% simple per year from the date Mr T paid 
the increased premium  to the date of Eldons refund.
I appreciate Mr Ts believes Eldon should  refund the difference between its policy and Mr Ts 
subsequent motor policy, but that wouldnt be fair as Mr Ts new insurers  might have 
assessed other issues differently as to how Eldon would have done so. Therefore, I think  its 
fairer if only the extra  amount charged  to Mr T by his subsequent insurers  for the 
cancellation is refunded.
All this put Mr T to some  considerable trouble and upset and I think  the sum of £200 
compensation is reasonable. This is in line with other awards I have made  in similar 
circumstances.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I now uphold  this complaint.
I now require Eldon Insurance Services Limited to the following:
Remove all records  of this cancellation from all internal and external databases.
Write  a letter to Mr T explaining his policy was cancelled due to its own error.
If Mr Ts subsequent insurers confirm a refund is due to Mr T following the removal of 
the cancellation marker but they cant provide  the refund for whatever reason, then 
Eldon Insurance Services Limited should provide the refunds. Interest of 8% simple 
per year should be added to these refunds from the date Mr T paid the extra  
premium to the dates  of its refund. If income  tax is to be deducted  from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should  be provided to Mr T for HMRC purposes.
Pay Mr T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020
Ref: DRN94056643Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9405664