K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc treated him unfairly because it didnt 
reduce the payments on his business loan when the interest  rate dropped  and sent his 
account to its Specialised  Business Management team when it shouldnt have.
background
Mr C took out a business loan with RBS in 2008 which had a tracker interest rate of 3% 
above Bank of England base rate. The loan was set up using a standing  order  instead  of a 
direct debit to take monthly payments. Unfortunately,  that system  didnt  automatically  
change the level of payments in line with changes to the base rate so RBS continued to take 
the original monthly  payments even when  the interest rate dropped. This meant that Mr C 
made significant overpayments on the loan over several years.
When Mr C missed a payment on the loan in 2012,  RBS transferred his account to its 
Specialised Business Management team which also impacted on his ability to use his 
business current account. The overpayments werent noticed at this time. When  he missed a 
payment again  in 2018 the problem came to light and Mr C complained to RBS about the 
way hed been treated. RBS upheld his complaint. It said it shouldve  reduced his payments 
in line with the drop in interest rate. To put things right, it:
-credited his loan account with £14,189.21 which reflected the overpayments hed 
made since 2008;
-refunded charges  totalling £755.00  to his Business current  account along  with a debit 
interest refund of £316.85;
-amended the standing  order  amount for the loan to £420.43  with effect  from July 
2018;
-credited a compensatory 8% interest amount of £5,948.84  to the Business current  
account; and
-offered Mr C £500 for the trouble and upset  its error had caused him.
It said it couldnt automatically change payments in line with changes to the base rate so 
asked him to contact  the bank if there were any changes in the future.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this so he came to this service. Our investigator thought the 
impact on Mr C merited a higher award for the upset RBSs error  had caused  him and 
suggested an award of £1,500. She also said RBS should find a way to amend Mr Cs 
payments in line with changes  in the interest  rates in the future. RBS disagreed  with this and 
asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  RBS accepts its error and has repaid the 
overpayments with interest along with the charges that have arisen  because  of RBSs 
mistakes. So I only need  to consider  whether its done enough  to put things  right in the 
circumstances.
Mr C was paying an extra £137.49 a month and over the course of ten years the 
overpayments and the charges that resulted from his financial difficulties totalled  around  
£15,000. This is a significant amount of money  for a small  business  and I dont doubt  that it 
had an impact on Mr Cs ability to keep  his business  going.  The stress of this unnecessary 
Ref: DRN98059972cost at a very difficult time for Mr C financially mustve been severe, particularly during the 
years when his accounts were being  dealt with by the Specialised  Business  Management  
team and Mr C felt his business was under constant threat. This went  on over several years 
and I can see from Mr Cs evidence that this was a very difficult time for him. In addition  to 
his financial difficulties, hes told us he suffered  from serious health problems being 
hospitalised several times. Our awards  for trouble and upset reflect  the impact of a business 
error on a consumer taking account the particular circumstances of that consumer. Against 
the backdrop of Mr Cs health problems and the challenges  of running his business in a 
difficult financial climate, RBSs error clearly had a severe impact on Mr C over several  
years. In these circumstances,  I think an award  of £1,500  is reasonable.
The problem came from the fact that the payments are set up as a standing  order not a 
direct debit and RBS says it cant change that. But I dont think  its fair for Mr C to have to 
keep monitoring the Bank of England  base  rate to make sure he doesnt  overpay in the 
future. In my view this is RBSs responsibility and it should find a way to check  on the 
interest rate and amend  the payments whether this is a manual or an automatic solution in 
the future.
Mr Cs questioned the amount of interest  on the overpayments credited to his account. RBS 
has provided details  of the way that interest  is calculated and that appears to be correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. The Royal 
Bank of Scotland PLC should pay Mr C a total of £1,500 as compensation for the trouble and 
upset its error caused him in difficult circumstances and should provide  a method of 
monitoring and updating the interest rate on Mr Cs account to make  sure no further  
overpayments are taken.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9805997