K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that National Savings and Investments  (NS&I) didnt properly set up a trust
account.
background
Mrs S thought shed  opened a trust account for her grandson in 2003. In 2018 she tried to
make a payment  to the account, but NS&Is updated procedures meant it asked her for 
identity information  before it would credit the payment. As a result of NS&Is  request, Mrs 
S discovered  the account was an investment account, rather than a trust account.
NS&I said it would convert the account  to a trust account. It also paid Mrs S £25 as 
a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator  thought  this was fair and reasonable.
But converting the account wasnt straightforward, and the investigator thought  the 
complaint should  be looked at again.  He explained that this service  couldnt ask NS&I  to 
change its processes or requirements for converting  the account. But he concluded NS&I 
made a mistake when  the account  was opened,  and that Mrs S had suffered inconvenience 
in getting things put right.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld,  and that NS&I should  pay
£200 to Mrs S.
NS&I didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions. It said,  in summary,  there  was 
no evidence that it had made a mistake when the account was opened. NS&I asked 
an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 23 October 2019. Ive summarised 
my provisional findings below:
 Mrs S had said she wanted to open  a trust account in 2003,  and this is what she 
thought shed  done. But I couldnt  be sure what was discussed between Mrs S and 
NS&Is representative  when  the account was opened and I was also mindful that 
these events took place many  years ago.
 I noted that the account opening form that Mrs S signed  in 2003 was headed:
 application  to open Investment Account child under 7
 
It also included a declaration that Mrs S signed that said:
I understand that deposits will belong to the child only and, until the child is seven 
years old, may only be withdrawn by a person who satisfied the Director of Savings 
that he or she is a proper  person, normally a parent or guardian, to receive 
payment.
Ref: DRN97795782There was nothing on the form to suggest that the account was a trust account. And 
the declaration  Id referred to made  clear  that deposits belong  to the child. The 
account opening form didnt include details of trustees who would hold the account 
balance on behalf  of the child.
 I accepted that Mrs S said she was under the impression shed opened  a trust 
account. But from what Id seen, I didnt think I could fairly and reasonably say 
that NS&I  didnt make  her aware that the account  was an investment account for 
a child, rather than a trust account.
 NS&I had explained what Mrs S needed  to do to convert the account to a trust 
account. I appreciated that this wasnt particularly  straightforward, but this service 
cannot ask NS&I to change its requirements for altering the account.
 NS&I had paid Mrs S £25 as a gesture of goodwill. I thought  that was fair, but I didnt 
think NS&I needed to do anything else.
Mrs S responded to say that she didnt agree with my provisional decision. She considered 
NS&I shouldve closed  the account  when her grandson turned  seven.  
NS&I said it didnt have  anything to add in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive noted what  Mrs S has said about how the account operates until the child turns seven.  
But my understanding  of the declaration on the application form is that the child cannot 
withdraw money from the account until they are seven. Once they reach that age, the 
account doesnt change but the child (rather than a parent or guardian) is able to make  
withdrawals.
So this point  doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or representations from the parties  I dont intend to 
depart from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9779578