K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund a transaction  that 
he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr M says that in April 2019  he noticed that a payment of £82.43  had been taken from his 
account. He doesnt know anything about the transaction  and he didnt use his debit card to 
make or authorise this online payment.
Halifax said that as Mr M was still in possession of his debit card it thought  it unlikely that an 
unknown third party had been able to access the card to use for just one transaction  and 
then return it to him. It declined to refund  the money.
Our investigator initially thought this complaint should be upheld. He thought  it was unlikely 
that Mr M had made the payment because he was travelling at the time. Halifax  then 
provided evidence  to show that Mr Ms postcode  was used along with his card details to 
authorise the payment, which was taken from Mr Ms account  at the end of a free trial period. 
Based on this extra information the investigator  thought it was more likely than not that Mr M 
had authorised the payment.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that he didnt sign up for any free trial or purchase  
anything from the online website.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
The disputed transaction was made in April 2019.  The regulations  relevant  to these are the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017.  In short, the regulations say that Halifax can hold Mr M 
liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence suggests that he most  likely  made  or 
authorised it himself or if it was made possible because  he was sufficiently  negligent in his 
care of his card or security details. 
Mr M says he didnt  sign up to this site and is seeking  a refund. So my primary concern is to 
come to a view about whether or not I think Mr M authorised the transactions.
Initially, Mr M thought the payment had been  made when he was travelling and just six 
minutes after he had purchased some fuel. He said that he couldnt  possibly have done this. 
But Im satisfied that the transaction was authorised the week  before it debited  his account.
The merchant has confirmed that when the account  was opened, Mr Ms name, postcode,  
email address and debit  card details, including the last three security digits (CVV)  on the 
reverse of the card,  were entered. Im satisfied  that the payment was authenticated and Mr 
Ms postcode and the CVV were verified.
So Ive gone  on to consider the possible explanations for how the disputed transaction  was 
made. These are:
Ref: DRN99314672Mr M signed  up and made  the payment himself
Someone with Mr Ms authority used  the card details to register
Someone known  to Mr M accessed  his card details and signed up to the account without 
Mr Ms consent
Someone unknown  to Mr M was able to use his card details to fraudulently  make  the 
payments
I cant know for sure what happened  in this case so I must make my decision based  on the 
balance of the evidence.
The merchant says that the card details were provided during registration for a free seven  
day trial of its service. Mr Ms card details and postcode were both verified.  Im satisfied that 
the email address it used was one that belonged to Mr M, although there  was a one letter 
typing error  when the address was input. So if Mr M didnt set this up himself, I consider  the 
person who did knew  not only Mr Ms personal  information but also his card details. The 
terms of Mr Ms account say that Mr M should keep  the card safe. 
Mr M hadnt reported the card as lost or stolen or compromised in any way. He said that no 
one had access to his card and he keeps  it in his wallet. I see that he used the card himself 
two days before the disputed transaction and then again a day later. So I dont  consider  that 
someone unknown  to Mr M could have  obtained Mr Ms card details and personal 
information to do this and then returned  the card to Mr M. And I dont think it likely  that 
someone known  to Mr M would have  accessed his card and signed up for the service  
without his consent. I say this because they would have had to take Mr Ms card and return  it 
to him without him noticing to use the next day, which I dont think happened here.
Mr M has said that there was no need for him to sign up for this service   a digital 
communication service,  which amongst other things enhances internet security  because  
he doesnt own a computer. But the service  allows up to six devices,  including  phones and 
tablets, to be connected and operates worldwide.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, and on balance, I think its more  likely than not that Mr M 
registered for the free trial. I accept that he might not have realised that in doing so he was 
authorising to pay for a three year plan but I cant safely hold Halifax  responsible for this 
transaction. I realise Mr M will be disappointed  but Im satisfied that Halifax has provided  
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that it may hold Mr M liable  for the transaction  and it was 
fair and reasonable for it to refuse  a refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9931467