K821x#15complaint
Miss B says that the loans  she applied for were  approved by Active Securities Limited,  
trading as 247Moneybox.com (Moneybox)  without it doing  proper affordability checks.  It 
didnt properly assess Miss Bs signs of indebtedness  and lent her money she couldnt  afford  
to pay back.
background
Moneybox approved  12 loans between July 2016  and November 2017. There  is no 
significant gap between the loans.  
One of our adjudicators thought that Moneybox  should put things right for Miss B for Loans 5 
to 12. Miss B accepted  that opinion. As Miss B has not disagreed with the non-uphold 
opinion for the other loans then I do not plan to review them  as they are not in dispute now.
Moneybox didnt  reply to the adjudicators assessment so I dont  know  what it disagrees 
with. In its final response letter it didnt accept it had done anything wrong but did offer to 
write off Miss Bs outstanding balance as a gesture of goodwill.
As there was no reply to the assessment  the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Moneybox, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss B would  have been  
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Miss Bs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise  
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Moneybox act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Moneybox did not act fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Miss B and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
Ref: DRN93630742they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
At the point of application for loan 5 I think that Moneybox should have carried out a 
comprehensive review  of Miss Bs financial position. I consider this to have been 
proportionate as this loan was also taken out the day after loan 4 was repaid suggesting 
Miss B couldnt afford to repay without borrowing again. Moneybox ought  to have verified 
Miss Bs income and her regular  financial  commitments, regular living  costs  and outgoings 
and her liabilities to any other short term lenders (STL). This could have been achieved  in a 
number of ways  for example by viewing  Miss Bs bank account statements which were likely 
to have provided most of this information  or by looking at her payslips. I say this because by 
this point Miss Bs pattern  of lending suggested that she wasnt using the loans as a short  
term solution and that it was no longer safe to rely on what  she was saying about her 
finances as her pattern of borrowing suggested difficulty  or reliance on this credit.  
So I have  looked  at the information we have received  from Miss B including her bank 
account statements  to see what Moneybox likely would have found had it made 
proportionate checks.
For loan 5 Miss Bs bank  statement  shows she had over-declared what she was earning and 
she was earning  around £700 per month not £900.  Her total outgoings  were  broadly what  
she had declared.  So she didnt have enough  money left to make the repayments on the 
loan in a sustainable way. I think that if Moneybox had done what  I consider to be 
proportionate checks, it would have  seen this and wouldnt have given Miss B this loan. 
Miss Bs bank statements showed she was over her overdraft limit and incurring fees and 
charges for returned transactions.
I have reviewed Miss Bs bank statements and the careful calculations carried out by our 
adjudicator for the period covered by loans 6-12 and I can see that Miss Bs outgoings and 
expenditure meant that she couldnt sustainably afford to repay  any of the loans from 5 to 
12. 
For these reasons I uphold Miss Bs complaint in relation to loans 5 to 12.
 
putting things right
Because Moneybox should not have given Miss B some of the loans she took, its not right 
that Miss B should have to pay interest  or charges on these, or have them affect  her credit 
file in a negative way. Moneybox should  do as follows:
write off any interest and charges that are unpaid;
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Miss B in respect of Loans 5 to 12;
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
apply the refund to reduce any outstanding  capital balance;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the refunded loans and credit 
account from Miss Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN93630743*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybox to take off tax from this interest and it must 
give Miss B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and I direct  that 
Active Securities Limited do as I have set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363074