K822xcomplaint
Ms S complained about a pension that was sold to her by Mercer  Limited.  Her intention  at 
the time was to amalgamate her small pension pots by transferring them into one plan. 
Mercer confirmed this was possible. She set up a pension plan with Scottish  Widows.  
However, after the plan was set up, she was informed Scottish Widows would not accept a 
transfer of her small pension pots.  
Ms S also complained  that Mercer insisted she continue to pay a monthly contribution  of £20 
into the plan although she was unemployed. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 14 April 2020.  I set out the background in detail  and have 
summarised the background below. 
Ms S had been  employed by a company that offered a pension  scheme  since  2008. She met 
with a representative of Mercer on 12 July 2011.  She then joined her employers Group  
Personal Pension (GPP). The provider of the GPP was Scottish  Widows.  Ms S paid 5% of 
her salary  into the GPP.  The amount she paid into the GPP was matched by her employer. 
Ms S says that this followed advice given to her by Mercer.
On 13 July 2011 another representative of Mercer  emailed Ms S about joining her 
employers GPP and investigating a stakeholder pension plan and a self-invested  pension 
plan (SIPP)  Ms S held with other providers.
In an email dated 12 September 2011  Mercer advised Ms S to transfer  her stakeholder  
pension into the GPP. Ms S decided not to transfer her stakeholder  pension  as this was 
being used to repay her mortgage. 
Mercer was also investigating the possibility of transferring the SIPP  into the GPP.  
Information was requested  about  the SIPP.  
As a member of the GPP  Ms S was charged an Annual Management  Charge  (AMC)  of 0.5%  
rather than the usual AMC of 1%. The usual AMC would apply when a member  left the GPP. 
However, the reduced 0.5% AMC could continue  if a member continued to make 
contributions of at least £20 a month.
Ms S sent an email on 16 March 2012 to Mercers representative. She had received a 
cheque for compensation for a pension and wanted  to transfer another personal pension  
plan (PPP)  to the GPP. The PPP had been transferred over from another  scheme.  
Ms S then had a meeting  with Mercers representative on 21 March  2012. This was to review 
existing benefits  and how to invest compensation she had received. 
Ms S left her employer in April 2012.  This meant she was no longer eligible to be a member 
of the GPP. Therefore the plan was automatically converted to an individual PPP.
Subsequently, Ms S had a series of emails  with the representative  from Mercer. This was 
about her leaving  her employer at the end of April. There were questions  asked about 
transferring her retained benefits. In an email  dated  2 April 2012 she asked if she could pay 
the compensation into the individual PPP with Scottish Widows.
Ref: DRN96689782In an email dated 3 April 2012  Mercers  representative explained that the compensation 
cheque could be paid into the individual PPP. If it was paid in before 5 April 2012 tax relief at 
20% would automatically  be added. If Ms S was a higher rate tax payer  for the tax year 
2011/12, she would be able to reclaim an additional  20% through her tax return. Scottish 
Widows confirmed the payment was received  on 5 April 2012.
When contributions from Ms Ss salary and from her employer had stopped, Mercer informed 
her that the AMC of the individual PPP would increase to 1% unless  she contributed at least 
£20 a month into the plan. Ms S therefore  agreed  to make contributions of £20 net a month.
In June 2012 Mercer advised Ms S against the transfer of the PPP,  which had a lower AMC 
of 0.25% compared  to the reduced AMC of 0.5% for the individual  PPP. And Mercer also 
advised against the transfer of the SIPP as there was an exit penalty of £90.
Ms S informed Mercer  that she wished  to continue with the transfer of the plans despite the 
lower AMCs and exit penalties that would apply, as the value of the plans were very small.
Ms S completed a form for Mercer with personal  details. She indicated  that she wanted to 
transfer her SIPP  and the PPP regardless of any opinion to the contrary.
On 23 January 2013 Scottish Widows emailed Mercer and Ms S explaining that if Ms S 
wished to proceed on an Execution Only basis that transfer discharge  forms would  have to 
be sent to them.
Ms S emailed  Mercers representative on 24 January 2013. She was unhappy that she had 
been told she had the option of consolidating all of her pension  plans. Ms S said the 
representative had told her he was going  to do it, but spent 17 months  doing  nothing.  She 
objected to being lied to about the transfers.
Ms S emailed  Scottish Widows representative,  and copied the email  to Mercers 
representative, on 26 January 2013 asking for the transfers to be put on hold as she needed  
information from Scottish Widows before proceeding. The information was about  the reasons 
for keeping  the PPP based solely on the lower AMC. Ms S made the point there  were  other  
factors which should be taken into account.
Ms S paid her last contribution to Scottish Widows  on 28 January 2013.
In March 2016, Ms S contacted Scottish  Widows to ask about transferring  her SIPP  into her 
PPP with them. Scottish Widows informed  her that she was unable  to amalgamate the plans.
Ms S complained to Mercer in August 2016 as she said Mercer mis-sold  the personal  
pension plan to her in 2012  after she had left her employer.
Mercer responded to the complaint in February  2017. It said:
Mercer was the adviser to the GPP and no direct  advice was given to Ms S about the 
GPP.
There was no evidence to suggest  any guarantees were given that Ms S could 
amalgamate her pension pots into one.
Ref: DRN96689783Regardless of the fact that Ms S was not able to amalgamate her pension plans into 
one, it considers the option she chose to start the plan was suitable. It thought Ms S 
would still have  applied to become a member of the GPP  as her employer  would 
match her contributions.
Ms S contributed the minimum  of 5% which was matched by her employer. As such,  
50% of the total contributions into the fund were  paid by her employer.
Ms S paid contributions through salary exchange and therefore paid lower income 
tax and National Insurance as the pension contributions paid lowered her taxable 
salary.
It considers Ms S was comfortable  paying £20 a month in order  to benefit from the 
0.5% AMC after she left employment.
It acknowledged the service Ms S received was not to its usual standards.
There were  significant  delays in obtaining information about  the SIPP from 
September 2011 to March 2012  and further  delays caused  between  June 2012 and 
January 2013.  And there  was a delay in handling  the complaint.
Whilst it fully accepted its service was poor it did not believe there  was any attempt to 
mislead Ms S or that she incurred any losses.
It did not agree that it mis-sold the pension with Scottish Widows  by claiming the plan 
had the ability to accept the transfer of other  small pension pot.
However taking into account  the number of errors and significant  delays caused, it 
offered compensation of £500  for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms S did not agree with Mercer and referred  her complaint to this service. She made  a 
number of points,  but the main issues were:
Mercers representatives lied to her about being  able to transfer  her existing pension 
plans into the one with Scottish Widows. 
She contributed  to the Scottish Widows plan after she left her employer and has lost 
money because of the lies from Mercers representatives.
Mercer has been paid commission  as a result of the lies and she would like it 
refunded.
She had zero interest  of what Mercers or anyone elses opinion was of what  was a 
good policy for her. There are a range  of factors which should  be considered, 
including how the pension provider makes its money. 
She also wished  to be refunded the payment of £3,058  which she paid into Scottish 
Widows. At the time, she was led to believe  that all of her funds could be 
amalgamated into Scottish Widows.
Our investigation
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She concluded that Mercers offer was a 
fair way to resolve  the complaint.
Ms S did not agree. She reiterated  her points about the lies told to her by Mercers 
representatives. She asked for a personal hearing  to resolve  the complaint. 
Ref: DRN96689784There has been further correspondence  between a number of adjudicators and Ms S. I wrote 
to Ms S explaining that I did not require a personal  hearing to fairly reach my decision on her 
complaint. I also explained:
Mercer was giving advice to Ms S about transferring other pensions into the GPP.  I 
accepted she was given advice about  joining the GPP and contributing  to the PPP.
I accepted Ms S was led to believe she could transfer other pensions into the GPP  or 
the PPP with Scottish  Widows. 
And I accepted she was advised  to pay £20 a month into the PPP even though she 
was unemployed  at the time.
The advice from Mercer  was not to transfer the PPP or SIPP into the PPP with 
Scottish Widows. Ms S was not able to transfer her pensions  as Scottish Widows 
would not accept the transfers without advice to do so.
I did not accept  Ms S had suffered a loss by joining the GPP or paying  into the 
individual PPP. In fact, I thought she had made  a financial gain.
Other than paying the compensation into the PPP, it appeared the option of 
transferring other pensions into the GPP and the PPP was not available.
I agreed that the service from Mercer had not been of an acceptable standard.  The 
offer made by Mercer was reasonable to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ms S did not agree. In summary, her main points were:
She needed to have  a personal  hearing  to ensure that basic concepts  of how to 
prove dishonesty and financial loss were understood.
She made a financial loss of over £500 by making payments to the PPP in 2012.
If I believed that Mercers adviser lacked  experience and competence and had mis-
sold the policies,  this should go on the public record.
One of the simplest  tests of dishonesty is a persons subsequent behaviour after a 
mistake has been  made.  An honest  person admits to a mistake whilst a dishonest 
person will tell a lot more  lies to conceal the mistake.
Ms S did not want to deal with the SIPP provider as they used loopholes  which they 
boasted about exploiting.  She did not want to feel besmirched.
My assessment of financial  loss was flawed. Using  the transfer value is not a valid 
measure as the income has to be taxed. If a fundholder  buys an annuity  they will 
have to live to 120 to receive  a full return of their funds.  
The tax removed from her pension fund was far greater than the tax relief she 
received. The correct measure of her loss was the amount received after tax.
Ms S provided calculations of the loss she had suffered. 
She will probably have to forego one of her other  pension  pots under  the three small 
pots lifetime rule. Her entire  objective  was to amalgamate her smaller pension  pots,  
not to create another one.
Ms S has suffered an enormous  amount of non-financial loss. She has been  on the 
receiving end of a huge number  of lies and burdened by a number of pointless 
actions which she was advised  to perform by Mercer. For example she would not 
have tried to extract  her previous employers pension scheme and transferred  it to a 
PPP, if she had not been told she could transfer  the fund to Scottish  Widows.
Above  all other damage is the loss of trust.  She suggested looking at the amount 
Mercer and its employees gained  by the lies they told her.
Ms S wanted an on the record decision that Mercer lied to her over a prolonged 
period. This should act as a deterrent to discourage them  from lying to other people.
Ref: DRN96689785My provisional decision
I set out my provisional  findings. I explained that Ms S had articulately stated a number of 
firmly held views. It was clear to me she has no trust in the financial services industry. I 
explained I had to consider the complaint and whether Mercers actions have caused her 
any loss.
I said Ms S first met with Mercer in 2011  when she joined her employers GPP.  Her own 
contributions were paid by salary sacrifice meaning that her salary  was reduced so that she 
paid less income tax and National  Insurance.  Her employer would match  the payments Ms S 
made to the scheme. Joining the GPP  was clearly of financial benefit to Ms S.
Mercers representative requested information  about Ms Ss other pension schemes in 2011 
when she joined the GPP. It is apparent this was to enable  advice to be given about  
transferring those benefits. Ms S decided herself  not to transfer her stakeholder plan. Further 
information was required by Mercer  in order to provide advice about  the transfer of her other 
pension plans. 
Mercers representative did not provide advice to Ms S until June 2012 about transferring her 
SIPP and PPP. The advice was not to transfer.  I think the advice did take a long time to be 
provided. This is longer than I think it should have taken.
However, Ms S wanted to transfer. Attempts were  made to allow Ms S to transfer her 
pensions. Eventually,  Scottish Widows explained  this was not possible, as the advice from 
Mercer had been  not to transfer. Again, there  were unexplained delays.  Ms S was eventually 
told that she would not be able to transfer her pensions  into the PPP with Scottish Widows.
I explained that I thought  the advice not to transfer  was not unsuitable.  The charges involved 
with both transfers appear to show that it was not financially better for Ms S. However, I 
accepted some advisers could have advised  Ms S to transfer her pensions  to meet  her 
objective of amalgamating most of her pension  plans.
I also explained that the regulator has carried out reviews on the subject of pension 
switching covering situations  like this one. And I have seen many cases  where advisers  
have given unsuitable advice to transfer  using a reason of amalgamating pension plans to 
justify the advice. I would expect most advisers  to be cautious when giving advice  to transfer 
pensions if the charges  of the recommended plan are higher or where there are penalties  
imposed on transfer.  That is not to say suitable  advice  could  not be given if transferring was 
the consumers  objective. But my conclusion  was that Mercer explained why they would not 
recommend the switch.
I accepted Ms S was led to believe she would be able to transfer other pensions into the 
plan with Scottish Widows. She has not been  able to do this and to that extent had been  
misled. 
Ms S also mentioned she went to some trouble to transfer her pension  benefits from another  
scheme to a PPP. The intention was then to transfer  the PPP to Scottish Widows. There is 
very little evidence on file about this point. I was not persuaded on the evidence I had seen 
this was a result of Mercers attempts  to transfer those benefits.
Ref: DRN96689786Ms S received a cheque  for compensation in March 2012. She asked Mercer about this and 
eventually paid this into the plan with Scottish Widows. The payment was received on 
5 April 2012. As Mercers representative  explained,  Ms S received  basic rate tax relief on 
this contribution. This also allowed Ms S to reclaim higher rate tax relief,  if she was a higher 
rate taxpayer in the 2011/12 tax year.
I carefully considered  the point about whether  Ms S was misled into making the payment to 
Scottish Widows  rather than to her stakeholder pension. In my view, there was little to 
choose between  the two pension providers. Ms S says, and I accepted, she wanted  to 
combine her pension pots. But, by March 2012 she already had the GPP  with Scottish 
Widows. So it made no difference  to the key point Ms S made that she wanted to reduce  the 
number of plans.  There was also an advantage to paying the contribution  to Scottish  Widows 
as she was already  contributing to this plan. In my experience, paying  contributions  into a 
pension at the end of the tax year can lead to problems. Purely  for convenience it did make  
some sense to make  the payment  to Scottish Widows. In any event, I did not see that there 
was any advantage to paying  it to the stakeholder plan compared  to Scottish Widows.
Dishonesty
Ms S still wanted a hearing to present  her case about how to prove dishonesty and how to 
calculate financial loss. Ms S says that one of the simplest and best tests of dishonesty  is a 
persons subsequent behaviour after a mistake  has been made. An honest person admits  
their mistake,  but a dishonest person will tell more lies in the hope  of concealing the mistake.
I did not agree with Ms S. To prove dishonesty I would need to be satisfied that the adviser 
knew, at the time, what he was saying was not true. That is a difficult  test to meet.  In any 
event, the remedy  is the same if I make a finding of dishonesty as the remedy if I make a 
finding of misrepresentation. I was satisfied that I do not need to make  a finding of 
dishonesty by Mercers representatives.
I was satisfied that starting  the GPP and contributing  to the plan when it became a PPP did 
not cause Ms S any financial loss. I think these were suitable  for Ms S.
Following the advice not to transfer  her pension policies, I was satisfied Ms S was told she 
would be able to transfer the policies, ether  on an Execution Only or insistent client  basis. 
That is to say without  advice or against  the advice given by Mercer.  There  were unexplained  
delays and eventually  Ms S was told she could not transfer the policies. I accepted  she was 
told she could transfer the policies and that turned out not to be true. However, it did appear 
to me that there was some confusion between Mercers representative and Scottish Widows 
as to whether  it would be allowed.
Ms S was caused  some  distress and inconvenience  by the delays  and failure to transfer her 
policies. I thought the offer of £500  is appropriate to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN96689787Financial loss
One point Ms S made was that she would have  to live to 120 to receive full benefit from the 
pension fund. I did not agree. It was not clear to me why Ms S thought this was the case. In 
any event, when calculating loss I need  to take account of the benefits Ms S could 
reasonably obtain.  Since pension freedoms were  introduced Ms S could withdraw  funds from 
her pension, but would pay income  tax after taking a tax-free lump  sum. 
Ms S provided her own calculations to show she has suffered a financial loss. I explained 
why I did not agree  with her calculations. I was not satisfied Ms S had suffered a financial 
loss.
Ms S provided details of the performance  of her stakeholder plan. I explained  why I thought  
investing with Scottish  Widows was reasonable. But, even if Ms S were  able to show  that 
policy was unsuitable,  the performance  would have to be compared  with the performance of 
the stakeholder  plan to assess any financial loss. The information she sent to me indicated 
she was still paying  contributions to the stakeholder plan. The value of those contributions 
would have to be excluded for comparison purposes.
In conclusion my provisional decision was
I was not satisfied joining the GPP  was unsuitable, or that it caused Ms S any 
financial loss.
I was not satisfied paying  the compensation to Scottish Widows was unsuitable,  or 
that it caused any financial loss.
I was not satisfied paying  contributions into the PPP after she left employment was 
unsuitable, or that it caused any financial loss.
Mercer did lead Ms S to believe that she could amalgamate  her pension plans with 
Scottish Widows. This has not been possible. Mercer caused Ms S some  distress 
and inconvenience.  I think the offer of £500  already made was sufficient to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S. 
Mercer accepted  my provisional decision.
Ms S did not agree. In summary, she made the following points:
She needed a hearing to prove that Mercers representative lied to her.
She and the majority of the public thought the role of the Ombudsman  service was to 
enforce standards of honesty and integrity.  Encouraging liars to carry on lying is not 
what the public had in mind when  they campaigned for it.
The matter was not going  to end until she had an official record  to say that Mercer  
told her a continual  stream of lies.
I was wrong about financial  benefit  being a motive for joining the GPP. She would not 
have been driven solely by financial gain.  It is unacceptable to claim that making a 
gain excuses how that gain was made.
She did not ask Mercer about the advisability of making the transfers  only whether 
they were possible. She had a large number of valid reasons for making the transfers 
and maximising the financial gain was not one of them.  The adviser  said the transfers  
were possible. This was a lie and he knew it was a lie.
Ref: DRN96689788I was wrong about payments being  made  into the stakeholder  plan. She stopped  
paying into this plan in 2001.  She would have  been  better off by £1,455  if she had 
paid into the stakeholder  pension  rather than the plan with Scottish  Widows.  She 
would have paid the compensation into the stakeholder plan if Mercers had not told 
her she could amalgamate her pension pots into the one with Scottish Widows.
My arguments about paying the money into Scottish Widows were  spurious. If the tax 
benefits had been  mentioned she would simply have waited. She did not know what 
her employment situation would be in the following tax year.  
I had the order  of events wrong. The advice about the ability  of the GPP to accept 
transfers in was given in the meeting on 12 July. This was followed up at later dates, 
but the advice was she would be able to transfer  her pension plans. The adviser said 
the choice would be entirely hers. He lied to her. And he knew  Scottish Widows 
would not allow  the choice to be hers.
She made it clear  at the meeting she had no intention of transferring the stakeholder 
plan. And she told the adviser exactly what she thought of the SIPP provider. The 
adviser told her that her benefits with a previous employer  could not be transferred 
directly into the GPP. She had to arrange a transfer to a PPP and then the benefits 
could be transferred into the GPP. She was put to an enormous amount of trouble  to 
transfer out of her previous employers pension scheme. She would not have done  
that or joined the GPP if she had been  told she would  not be able to amalgamate  her 
pension pots.
The adviser said in an email dated  23 January 2013 that Scottish Widows had an 
Execution Only policy. He knew this was not true. Scottish Widows complaints 
manager said that they have never  had such  a policy. This was a deliberate lie.
She did not ask for the transfers to be put on indefinite  hold.  She wanted to hear 
Scottish Widows  side of the story. And she wanted the adviser removed  from her 
policy, but found out he was receiving a fee.
Ms S said that I was wrong  to say the tax system  does not assume that the fund will 
be four times the amount paid in. This is borne out by the comparison of the 
performance of her stakeholder plan and the SIPP.
The tax paid when  she cashed  in her pension outweighed any benefit  of tax relief  she 
obtained. 
Ms S also provided an explanation  about  how annuities  work. The lower  the annuity  
rate the longer it would take for the capital to be returned. At a rate of 2% it would 
take 50 years to return the capital. The transfer  value was not an appropriate 
measure for financial  loss. It was only right to use the amount the investor got back 
after tax and during their lifetime.
My inability  to understand many of the factors raised including  the advisers honesty 
all proved why a hearing was necessary. The test of dishonesty needed to be 
examined at a hearing.
She wants to retire with a clear conscience. That does not include lining off tainted 
money. The tax loopholes  used by the SIPP provider make that a tainted  product. It 
is too toxic to touch.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have carefully  considered the response 
from Ms S to my provisional decision.  Having done so, I have still come to the same  
conclusion. Let me explain  why.
Ref: DRN96689789The evidence indicates to me that Mercers adviser was investigating  the option of 
transferring Ms Ss SIPP and PPP into the GPP.  I remain satisfied that the adviser led Ms S 
to believe it was possible to transfer those pensions  into the GPP.
I do not need to decide  whether  the adviser  was dishonest. I accept that Ms S has not been  
able to transfer her SIPP and PPP to Scottish  Widows. This was her intention all along and I 
accept Ms S has not been  able to do this. A hearing would not change any remedy for the 
poor service that both I and Mercer  accept Ms S has received.
I explained why I did not think Ms S had suffered a financial loss in my provisional decision. 
My view on that has not been  changed  by the arguments made by Ms S. The tax relief 
available and taxation of benefits is set out in the Pensions Tax Manual on HMRCs website. 
The tax system does not operate as Ms S told me. And the growth  is not intended to be four 
times the amount paid in. If that has happened it is coincidental. 
Ms S said I have the order of events wrong.  She referred to the transfer of benefits from a 
former employers pension scheme. I accept she transferred those benefits. But I have not 
seen sufficient evidence  to show this was as a result of any action by Mercer.
Ms S is right to say that calculation of financial loss should be to compare the amount paid in 
with the amount she received after tax. Joining the GPP and paying into the individual  PPP 
both allowed Ms S to benefit from tax relief.  And joining the GPP meant there  was a benefit 
from the employer  contributions. 
I explained that paying the compensation into the PPP with Scottish  Widows  was at the end 
of the tax year. Paying this into the plan with Scottish Widows was simpler than paying  it into 
the stakeholder  plan,  as Ms S was already paying  into the plan with Scottish Widows. The 
adviser explained that she could  reclaim  higher rate tax relief if she was a higher rate tax 
payer. It would not be right for me to judge that advice on the subsequent performance of the 
two plans. At the time of the advice I did not see any reason why the stakeholder  plan was a 
better option than the plan with Scottish  Widows.
I understand that Ms S does not like the use of what she refers as tax loopholes. However, 
that is how the taxation of pension schemes  works.  Tax reliefs are available  to encourage 
people to save using  pensions. These  are factors I would expect a competent financial 
adviser to consider when giving advice.
The use of annuity  rates is no longer relevant to Ms Ss complaint as she has not bought an 
annuity. All I would say on this point is that I think she could have obtained an annuity  rate 
higher than 2%.
The amount  Ms S received from her plan with Scottish Widows was taxed  under the PAYE 
system. She may well have paid higher rate tax on some of the payment. I think it is possible  
she could reclaim some  of the tax paid.  However, that depends  on her individual  tax 
position.
I am satisfied that Ms S could have arranged to withdraw her pension  funds over more than 
one tax year to mitigate the amount of tax she would pay. This means  she should have paid 
no more than basic rate tax on 75% of the fund. The benefits of paying into a pension 
therefore outweigh  the tax to be paid on those benefits. I am satisfied that Ms S has not 
suffered a financial loss as a result of paying  into the policy  with Scottish  Widows.
Ref: DRN966897810Ms S does not think  making a financial  gain should  excuse poor behaviour. I agree. 
However, a financial  adviser is usually trying to help a client make  a financial gain. In this 
case, I think that has happened. The advice to start the pension was therefore suitable.
However, I accept that Ms S has been frustrated in her aim of amalgamating her pension  
plans. In part, this appears to be because  of the caution regulated firms  have shown in 
transferring pensions where the client may suffer a financial loss. To achieve Ms Ss 
objectives, I think it is likely she would suffer a financial loss. I accept that she was prepared  
to proceed knowing  that there would be a financial loss. But I cannot say the advice not to 
transfer was unsuitable or that Scottish  Widows should have accepted  the transfers. 
I am satisfied that Mercer started  the process with the intention  of assisting Ms S to transfer 
her pensions to Scottish Widows. It has not been  possible to transfer the benefits and I 
accept Ms S has been misled. However,  I do not need to make a finding  that the adviser at 
Mercer was dishonest. It requires a very high standard of proof to show someone was 
dishonest. And even  if I made such a finding it would not affect  the outcome of this 
complaint. 
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve disputes between consumers 
and financial  businesses.  I have  a wide range of powers open  to me to make  awards  for 
financial loss and for non-monetary loss. I am satisfied  that Ms S has not suffered  a financial 
loss. The service she received has not been  of an acceptable standard.  I can make an 
award for the distress and inconvenience caused.  I agree  that Mercers offer of £500 is 
appropriate in the circumstances of this case.
I realise that Ms S will not be happy  with my decision. However, I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome for the reasons given above. In conclusion
I am not satisfied joining the GPP was unsuitable, or that it caused Ms S any financial 
loss.
I am not satisfied paying the compensation to Scottish Widows was unsuitable, or 
that it caused any financial loss.
I am not satisfied paying contributions into the individual  PPP was unsuitable, or that 
it caused any financial loss.
Mercer did lead Ms S to believe that she could amalgamate  her pension plans with 
Scottish Widows. This has not been possible. Mercer caused Ms S some  distress 
and inconvenience.  I think the offer of £500  already made is sufficient to compensate  
for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Ms S. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Mercer Limited  should pay £500  to Ms S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9668978