K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when she took out a mortgage. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss D bought two policies  the first one in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. 
She applied  for the mortgage  and PPI policy in a branch. Miss D took out PPI again in 1999 
at the same  time as taking out a further  advance to her existing mortgage. Like the first sale,  
things happened  in-branch. 
Both policies  provided cover for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to their 
respective exclusions  and limitations.  Policy one offered to repay £300 a month  towards 
Miss Ds mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost under £15 
a month. Policy two offered to repay  around £240  a month towards Miss Ds mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time it cost under £13 a month.
It appears from BoS records that Miss D cancelled  the first policy  around six weeks  after 
taking it out. Theres  also evidence that a premium was refunded.  So its possible that Miss 
D hasnt lost out financially as a result  of taking out this policy.  But for the sake  of 
completeness I will in any event go on and consider Miss Ds complaint about this sale.
It appears that Miss Ds circumstances  were broadly the same for both sales   she was 
employed as an office worker (clerk) and she told us she wasnt entitled to any enhanced 
sick pay but was entitled  to some redundancy pay. Miss D has said she had no other means
of repaying her mortgage should she be unable to work  and she was in good health at the 
time of the sales. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 1996, Miss D 
took out a further advance in 1999  and the account  closed in 2001. 
Miss Ds representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ds representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Miss D about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN96924382The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss D and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss D received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds complaint.
The sales  took place  in 1996  and 1999  respectively before the General Insurance  Standards 
Council (GISC)  published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general 
insurance products  like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC  Code, the 
FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBs)  arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN96924383There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the relevant times, which Im satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ds case.
For the 1999 sale, there was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed 
by subscribing lenders  and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage  
related matters, it also included some  insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Ref: DRN96924384-Whether BoS gave  Miss D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, including drawing 
to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of each policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss D and 
BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss D know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were  optional. 
BoS doesnt have any of the paperwork for the first PPI sale in 1996  and this isnt 
surprising given how long-ago things happened. Its also the case that the mortgage account 
has been closed  for more  than 15 years. This does  mean that I dont know  how PPI was 
introduced or positioned with Miss D at the time. But equally Miss D hasnt said much about 
what happened.
So given the limited evidence about an event that happened over 20 years  ago, I cant fairly 
say that BoS likely misrepresented the policy as being  compulsory  or that Miss D didnt 
agree to take it out.
For the second policy sale in 1999  BoS has provided a copy of Miss Ds signed  PPI 
application form  a separate application from the further advance  application  itself.  Because  
Miss D was required to complete a separate form to take it out, Im not persuaded she 
wouldve been under  the impression she had to have it. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Miss D knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during both sales. This means BoS had to advise Miss D with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether each policy was appropriate or suitable 
given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN96924385I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the 1996 policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss D. It seems Miss D cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to either policy.  Notwithstanding  
the passage of time, this is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting. The adviser 
likely had some  limited  information about  Miss Ds financial circumstances, but there  is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Miss D would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered 
whether Miss D had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
For the 1999 sale - while I dont  know  what  was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  
evidence suggests  that BoS took some  steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss D. The adviser had information about  some of Miss Ds financial 
circumstances as part of the further  advance application. And although  the PPI application 
suggests some questions were asked  about  Miss Ds employment  and health  to establish 
whether Miss D had a need for the policy, I dont  think it did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable. I say this because theres no evidence BoS asked questions about Miss Ds 
existing means and the extent to which she could manage her repayment should she fall ill 
or lose her job.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  each  policy was suitable  for Miss D given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill on either occasion.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Miss D, I do think  its more  likely  than not that both policies were ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Miss D met the eligibility criteria for the policies.
-Miss D had a need for both policies  Miss D hasnt said she was entitled to any 
enhanced sick pay if she was unable to work due to illness, her redundancy benefits 
were likely to be limited  and she didnt have any savings she could fall back  on. The 
policies would have  helped Miss D manage the consequences if she was unable  to 
work.
-Although Miss D says she was financially stretched at the times, Ive seen nothing  
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss D. There  
was nothing about Miss Ds employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim (the 1999  policy  didnt exclude existing 
conditions in any event.) 
-While  each policy included a requirement  that Miss D be disabled or unemployed for 
30 days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum 
of 12 months and 24 months  respectively  for each claim, it still provided useful cover 
given: Miss Ds circumstances,  the fact the policy protected the mortgage 
repayments relating  to her home  and the potential consequences should Miss D be 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  her home.
Ref: DRN96924386Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Miss D sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss D was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that each policy  would protect her payments if she 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment.)   I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Miss D would have taken out either policy without any 
sense of what they were  for. Im also satisfied  Miss D understood the exact  cost and benefit 
of the 1999 policy as this was printed clearly on the PPI application she signed  to agree to 
take it out. For the 1996 policy I think its likely she was told the approximate cost  I find it 
unlikely shed have  agreed to go ahead  without any idea of how much  the premium  might 
be.
But the evidence  from the time of the first sale doesnt tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost - and for both policies sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Miss D agreed to take them out. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied both policies  were a suitable  recommendation for Miss D, Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  either policy it was recommending  in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Miss D all of the information she 
needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take them out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ds. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ds representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. 
Ref: DRN96924387While I cant be certain  what  a court  would  say  I think  its unlikely a court  would find that 
this extended  to the insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information  or explaining the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Miss D has suggested. And taking 
into account the law, industry  codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to 
this complaint, I dont  think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that BoS ought to have done 
either. 
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Miss D? To what extent did Miss  D suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold the policies to Miss D. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss D 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss D 
would have still taken  out the policies, had BoS done things properly each time. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  each time was suitable for Miss D, I have found that they were  
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Miss D would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out either  policy in 
any event.
Miss D says she wouldnt have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made her decisions based  on incomplete information, meaning  what she 
thought she was getting each time is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ds circumstances at the 
time of the sales that both policies were  not fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss D knew  she would have to pay 
something for the first policy, it doesnt  appear BoS told her the exact premium at the point 
Miss D applied for it. Having said that, it seems likely Miss D would have been told the cost 
before the policy started,  so if the costs  were significantly at odds with her expectations at 
the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with BoS at the time or 
reconsidered her decision.
Ref: DRN96924388Overall, Im not persuaded Miss D would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Miss D would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim on the first policy.  But I think its unlikely Miss Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
As Ive already  explained, the information  Miss D was given about the cost and benefit for 
the second policy was clear.  But the information about other aspects of both policies, such  
as the limitations  and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should  have been.
  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought each time were the following:
1996 policy
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss D sought advice 
about or treatment  from a doctor for during the 12 months before the start date of the 
policy and which recurred within  24 months  of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss D be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
1999 policy 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss D be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss D pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  each policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in the sales,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss D from taking  out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ds circumstances  at the time of both sales shows  that each 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for their benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to 
her on each occasion should  the insured risks have become a reality.  
Ref: DRN96924389I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Miss D wouldve been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions  (notwithstanding 
that the second policy didnt exclude  existing conditions) and was in permanent  employment 
each time.  So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policies out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss D 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss D from taking out the policies, Miss D, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take them out.
If Miss D had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Miss Ds 
circumstances and the limited other means  she had to make her repayments if she wasnt  
working, on balance,  I still think she would have been interested in taking  out the cover each 
time.
BoS may not have told Miss D that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month and 
24-month period  respectively. This may have  differed from what she expected  and might  
have hoped for  but she had limited other means  to fall back  on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss D would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 and then 24 monthly mortgage  payments would  have been  of benefit to her and 
would help her manage  the consequences  should  Miss D be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policies. The policies allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it 
could help reduce her outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home was 
not placed at risk. 
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss D would  still have  taken out both policies.  The policies were suitable  for her, 
were sufficiently close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits 
that would  help her manage the consequences if she was made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Miss D would have taken out both policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Miss Ds representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN969243810Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss D would not have bought  the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss D 
found herself in as a result of the sales was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss D in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI each time had she been  given clear, fair and not misleading  information 
about the policy she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude BoS should  pay Miss D compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss D thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Miss D, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1996 and 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ds representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Miss D and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss D in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done.
Ref: DRN969243811my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9692438