K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2003  when    
Mr T applied  for a credit card. Mr T says Tesco Personal Finance Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr T says the card  and the policy  was sold during a telephone call. Tesco  says it was 
sold via a postal  application and has provided  paperwork  from the time Mr T applied for his 
credit card. Looking at this, I think the policy  was sold via a postal application because  it has 
instructions about  how to return  the form.  
Looking at the copy of Mr Ts application  form, it asks applicants to select a box to say if they 
want PPI. And this box has been ticked on Mr Ts form.  So I think  Tesco  made it clear that 
he had a choice  about taking the PPI, although  I can understand why he doesnt remember 
this.
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mr T had any direct contact with a Tesco advisor  at 
the time of the sale of the PPI, it doesnt look like Tesco  recommend  it to Mr T. So Tesco  
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr T got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay Mr T was entitled  to, as well as helping him cover  payments if 
he lost his job. It doesnt look like Mr T had any other means  such as savings  to make 
his card repayments if he was too unwell to work or became unemployed. So I think  it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. Which means Tesco doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because Tesco  didnt tell Mr T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN94943622my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9494362