K820x#14Complaint
Mr G and Miss L say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National)  mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Background
In 2006, Santander sold Mr G and Miss L a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments if either of them was unable to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr G and Miss L disagreed,  so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and 
Miss Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Santander doesnt still have all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago it took place. And I note what Mr G and Miss L 
have said about  not wanting  PPI. But, from experience of how Santander sold PPI in its 
branches at the time and from the paperwork that is available, I think Mr G and Miss L would 
have had to complete a separate application form before the PPI was added. 
Overall, I think its likely Mr G and Miss L would have known the PPI was optional and that it 
was only added after theyd agreed to take it. I havent seen any evidence that Santander 
put them under  undue pressure to take it as theyve argued.
I can see that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr G and Miss L. That meant  Santander 
needed to take steps  to ensure its advice was right for them.  Regardless  of what  steps it 
took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for them  in any case. 
For example, from what Mr G and Miss L have  told us about their circumstances, they were  
eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or 
limited cover  for either. 
Ive noted what  Mr G and Miss L say about  Mr G being self-employed  and so not being able 
to benefit under the policy. But Ive carefully  checked the policy  terms and theres nothing to 
show hed have been treated less favourably than someone who was employed (such  as 
Miss L).
The PPI benefits  were considerable and would have  paid out for up to 12 months per claim.  
The policy covered unemployment too. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest  theyd have  found  
the monthly premium  to be unaffordable. Considering Mr G and Miss L had entered  into a 
long-term financial commitment that was secured  against their home, I think theyd have 
valued the security  the PPI provided.  
Ref: DRN94171542Santander also needed to give Mr G and Miss L enough information  about the PPI to allow 
them to decide  for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information 
Santander gave  them could have been  better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I 
dont think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think  better  information  would have 
affected their decision to take it. I think theyd still have thought it gave  them a useful benefit  
at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr G and Miss L have lost out because  of 
how Santander sold them  the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9417154