K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains about the way The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) handled his claims on 
two occasions.  In the first case he says his debit  card was used without his authority to book 
a flight; on the second occasion he says his credit card was used to buy goods online, but 
they werent delivered.   
background
In November 2016 Mr Vs debit card details were used to make a payment to a flight 
company. The cards 16-digit number was used,  together with its expiry date and 3-digit 
security code. The bank  says that the transaction was marked  as Verified by Visa; it says 
that means it was either made from a computer or other device that Mr V had used 
previously, or it was verified by the use of a password. It wasnt  able, however, to say which. 
It hasnt been  possible either to obtain  any further information from the merchant to which 
the payment was made. 
In February 2017  Mr V says he bought goods online, but that he never received them.  He 
appears also to suggest however that he wasnt involved in the purchase  at all and has 
pointed out that there were three identical payments to the same retailer,  each on a different  
card from a different  card issuer. 
Mr V referred the matter to this service,  and one of our adjudicators considered  it. In respect  
of the first payment, he thought it more likely than not that Mr V had made  the payment 
himself, or authorised someone  else to do so. Either way, he thought that RBS was entitled 
to hold Mr V liable for the payment. 
In respect of the second payment, the adjudicator  considered  the possibility that someone 
had managed to obtain Mr Vs card and other  details  and had been able to order goods and 
arrange to collect  them from Mr Vs place of work. Given Mr Vs allegation that goods hadnt 
been delivered, the adjudicator thought that RBS was right to seek to challenge the payment 
through the chargeback process, but didnt believe it should do any more.  
Mr V didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked that they be reviewed by an 
ombudsman  as the final stage of our consideration of Mr Vs complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached the same overall 
conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons. 
I note that, in both cases, the card details were used, rather than the card itself.  A third party 
might have been able to obtain Mr Vs card details in a number of different ways, without the 
need to acquire the card itself. I have therefore  considered carefully whether that shows that 
Mr V wasnt  involved here.  
RBS says, and I accept, that the first payment  was verified. It cant however show  whether 
that means someone  used a password to verify the payment  or that the transaction  was 
made from a device Mr V had previously used. It hasnt been  possible either  to obtain any 
further information from the merchant  which might have shown, for example, the name  in 
which any flights were booked. 
Ref: DRN94382212Be that as it may, I think it more  likely  than not that Mr V either made  the booking  himself, or 
allowed someone else to use his card to do so. I note too that Mr V said that he had had a 
similar problem  a few years earlier. In fact, Mr V had submitted three  similar claims to RBS 
in the previous year. In the circumstances,  I agree  with the adjudicator that RBS is entitled to 
hold Mr V liable  for this transaction.  
As far as the second payment is concerned, Mr V initially  appeared to be saying  only that 
goods hadnt been delivered. He later suggested  though that the merchant  (or someone  
else) had taken a payment without authority. This transaction too was made online, using the 
card details but not necessarily the physical  card.  Mr V said goods hadnt  been delivered, 
but again when RBS investigated it established that the correct  card details had been used 
to place the order and that it had been  delivered  to Mr Vs work address. 
Mr V has suggested that someone intercepted the delivery and that the merchant or a third 
party might have been involved in fraud. I cant rule that out entirely, but overall I agree with 
the adjudicator  that its more likely than not that Mr V made  or authorised  the payment and 
that the goods were delivered  in accordance  with his instructions. It wouldnt therefore be fair 
to require RBS to do anything more to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to take any further 
steps in relation to Mr Vs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr V to accept or reject  my decision before 10 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9438221