K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. Mr
and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold them  the PPI.
Mr and Mrs G bought  a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2004. TMPP can be split
into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover  (which is a form of PPI), life cover  and critical
illness cover.  Mr and Mrs G complained  about the PPI, so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI
cover only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
The PPI covered Mr G only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs G aware that the PPI policy  was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  the PPI to their mortgage. There  isnt much paperwork available from
the sale of the policy,  but from what we know about  how Halifax sold this type of policy at the
time I think its likely  Halifax  would have  presented  the PPI as optional  and gained Mr and
Mrs Gs consent before  adding it to their mortgage.  So, I think  Halifax made it clear that Mr
and Mrs G didnt have  to take out the PPI and that they chose  to take it out.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI policy  to Mr G, so it had to check that the PPI
was right for him. Mr and Mrs G have told us they werent entitled  to sick pay when
they took the PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr and Mrs G seem to have had a need for
the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr G chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr and Mrs G if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said. But for the reasons  explained  above  
these points dont  change my decision.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. But 
Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN94089732To put that right, Halifax  has basically paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Terry Woodham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408973