K820x#14complaint
Mr Q has complained to us about  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy which he 
was sold by HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC).  
background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt  be upheld. Mr Q 
disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Qs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
Mr Q was sold the policy in 2004  when he took out a credit card. He told us that he took out 
his card over the phone. But hes unable to recall many of the details about the sale.  In  
addition, HSBC no longer has copies of the actual sale documents. This isnt particularly 
unusual, given how long ago it was and given that the card was cancelled in 2006, so Ive 
used my knowledge and experience of PPI sales to help me think  about what might have 
happened. Ive also looked  carefully  at what the parties have said.  My decision is based on 
the balance of probabilities i.e. whats more likely to have happened.
From what  we know about how these particular sales were  conducted,  in 2004 telephone 
sales were followed up with a paper agreement.  This document  would  have invited Mr Q to 
sign to confirm that he wanted to take out the policy. Mr Q was told us that during  the call, 
the PPI was sold to him as a brilliant idea. Ive considered the possibility that the sales 
representative strongly recommended the policy to him, rather  than told him it was 
something he had to have. Ive no doubt that Mr Qs recollections are genuinely held, but 
having carefully considered what we know about  the sales process  I think  overall,  its more  
likely that HSBC made it clear to him that the policy was optional.  So I wont  be upholding his 
complaint on this basis.
Next, HSBC says it would have recommended the PPI cover to Mr Q so this means  it was 
under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for him. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover  under the policy. And 
looking at Mr Qs circumstances, I think that he met these rules. So I think  he could  have 
claimed under the policy if he needed  to.
Next, I dont think Mr Q would  have  been  caught  by any of the main exclusions and 
restrictions under the PPI. Mr Q has told us about his job at the time, and he would  have had 
employer benefits  amounting to six months of his full pay followed by six months half pay. 
He also had a private  policy which paid for broken bones, loss of limbs and time off work.  In 
the event he was too ill to work,  the PPI meant Mr Q wouldve been  able to have his 
outstanding card balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. And the policy 
also would  have paid out if he was made unemployed.  These  benefits were  accessible in 
Ref: DRN98082422addition to any other means  he already  had in place at the time. So taking all these things 
into account, I think the recommendation was suitable for him.
Next, HSBC also had to give Mr Q clear information. I cant  confirm he was told everything 
he should have  been told. However,  the cost of the PPI was comparable  to the cost of other,  
similar policies  available at the time.  And Mr Q wouldnt  have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or restrictions under the policy. On balance, I dont think having better 
information about these matters would  have put Mr Q off taking out the PPI. So in this 
complaint I wont be requiring HSBC to put anything right. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr Q, but for the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mr Qs 
complaint and I dont  require  HSBC  to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9808242