K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained to us that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him and 
his wife a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy in 1994  alongside  a loan.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 30 November 2018,  in which  I explained 
why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint  and both parties were  given  a chance 
to comment. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Theres a limited amount  of information in this complaint due to the amount of time that has 
passed and because the loan has ended.  We no longer have access to the original 
paperwork from the sale. Ive used my knowledge and experience of PPI sales to help me 
think about what might have happened. Ive also looked carefully at what the parties  
have said. 
Firstly I looked at whether  Nationwide made it clear that the PPI was optional. Based on the 
information thats available, Nationwide thinks its most likely that Mr M was the first borrower 
on the loan and was covered for accident, sickness, unemployment and life cover. And it 
thinks Mrs M was probably the second  named borrower on the loan,  so would have qualified 
for life cover.  However, Nationwide  has been unable to find information  about the method by 
which the policy was sold, for example whether it was sold by post or at a meeting. But 
records show that the start date of the loan was in February 1994 and the term was 48 
months. 
Nationwide told us that regardless of the method  by which the PPI was sold to Mr and 
Mrs M, after the loan had been approved they would have been sent the loan agreement to 
sign and return.  It told us that it thinks this agreement would have stated that the PPI was 
optional. Nationwide  provided us with a sample copy of an agreement. However, Ive noticed 
that this dates from November 1996, two years after the PPI sale in this complaint appears 
to have taken  place. And in my view theres a lack of any other persuasive evidence  linking 
this sample agreement to the date of sale. So I dont think  it would be reasonable to place a 
significant amount  of weight on it considering my decision. 
Mr M told us that he doesnt recall  much about taking  out the loan or how the PPI was sold 
to him. Given that the sale took place  many years ago, this isnt surprising. In addition,  it isnt 
unusual that the paperwork from the sale isnt available, because of the amount  of time 
Ref: DRN95961292thats passed and due to the account being  closed. So Ive had to take this into account 
when considering my decision. 
Overall in my view its entirely possible that Mr M and his wife decided  to take out the policy 
and Mr M no longer recalls because  it happened so long ago. As the evidence stands Im not 
persuaded that its likely,  on the balance of probabilities, that Nationwide failed to make it 
clear to Mr and Mrs M that it was up to them whether to not to take out the PPI cover. So Im 
not intending to uphold  the complaint on this basis.
Next, Nationwide  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So in those circumstances it 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable.  But it was required to give them  information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so they could make the decision for themselves 
whether or not to take out the policy.
Its likely  that this policy excluded cover for pre-existing medical  conditions.  Mr M told us that 
at the time of the sale he had a pre-existing medical  condition. In addition  he told us he 
doesnt think hed have bought the PPI if hed understood that limitation in the policy. Im 
sure that Mr M has given us his genuine  recollection  about having a pre-existing medical  
condition at the time of the sale. But actually,  in this case, I dont think  it makes a difference 
and Ill explain why. 
I think it most likely  that Mr M and Mrs M had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it. I 
dont think they would  have been put off if theyd  understood that Mr Ms condition  wasnt 
covered. This is because  hes told us that it was a one off problem, it didnt trouble him again 
and he has been  fine afterwards. Through his testimony Mr M comes  across as a robust  
character. In my opinion he and his wife would have considered it unlikely that any claim 
theyd have to make on the PPI policy would be as a result of his pre-existing condition. He 
was able to benefit from the remainder of the cover, including cover for unemployment. I 
know Mr M had some  cover through his employer  for sick pay and redundancy pay. But the 
policy could still have  helped him. And I think he and Mrs M would have considered  it was 
important to have  a safety net for the loan. 
So its possible that Nationwide could  have provided more information about  the policies. But 
I think Mr M and Mrs M would still have bought the PPI even if they could have been given 
better information. So they arent  any worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have  
done wrong and in this case theres nothing  that Nationwide needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
Im sorry  if my decision  disappoints Mr M, but for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M in his own 
behalf and on behalf of the estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
17 February 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9596129