K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  mustve  closed her 
childrens high interest savings account  without her permission.
background
Miss P said that she went to Yorkshire  in September 2018, to close a childrens high interest 
savings account  shed opened in 1996.  But Yorkshire said it couldnt  find the account. She 
said that shed  been complaining about  this to Yorkshire ever since,  and it hadnt  responded.
Miss P said that she wanted £3,000 in compensation. She thought  Yorkshire had stolen her 
money, and caused  her a lot of unnecessary stress in trying  to recover  it.
Yorkshire initially wrote to Miss P and said it was sorry  that it couldnt  find her account. It 
paid her £50 to make up for that. And it said it would do some more  checks.
But then Yorkshire  wrote again.  It said that it had checked microfiche records, and it could 
see that the money had been withdrawn  by Miss P. It had a picture of her passbook,  which 
showed the balance as £33.70 on 27 February 1998. Yorkshire said it had added £0.66 of 
credit interest, and paid her the balance of £34.36  on 30 November 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought Yorkshire had shown the account 
had been closed. She didnt think Yorkshire had to do any more  than it had already done.
Miss P didnt agree with that. She didnt  think that a £50 gesture of goodwill should be 
considered as a settlement for her complaint. And she said that Yorkshire had never told her 
that the account was closed when the money  was taken  out. She said that she couldnt have 
closed this account at the time Yorkshire  said, without the agreement of her parents, and 
that hadnt been given.  Miss P said that Yorkshire had lied to our service,  and wed just 
accepted it as true. Miss P emailed us pictures  of the passbook for the account. 
Our adjudicator wrote again  to Miss P. She said that she now understood that Miss P still 
had the passbook for this account. But our adjudicator said that she still thought that the 
money had been  paid out, because Yorkshire  had shown us evidence of this transaction.  
She said that she thought it was most likely  that Miss P had just forgotten  about the 
transaction. And our adjudicator said that she still thought  that £50 was a fair amount to 
make up for the service Yorkshire initially provided  in this case.
Miss P wanted a final decision on her case from an ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Yorkshire initially told Miss P that it couldnt find her account. It appears to have suggested 
at some point that it may have been  closed without her agreement.  I dont think  it was helpful 
for Yorkshire  to have  suggested that, and Im glad to see that it has paid Miss P £50 to make  
up for poor service. I dont think Im prevented from considering that amount as 
compensation, even  if Yorkshire says it was a goodwill gesture. And I think  that provides a 
fair outcome to this part of Miss Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN97408482Although I know that Miss P still has the passbook for this account, I have to bear in mind 
that it is possible for accounts like this to be closed without a passbook being returned  to the 
branch. Passbooks can get lost or damaged or stolen. The bank  doesnt  get to keep the 
money when that happens. The money  still has to be given to the account holder. So I think  
that this account  could  have been  closed even  though the passbook wasnt  given back.
Yorkshire has shown  us evidence that the money in this account was withdrawn,  and the 
account closed,  on 30 November 1998.  I know that Yorkshire cant show  the signatures that 
were taken at that time, but I wouldnt  expect it still to have that information, for something 
that happened so long ago. 
I realise that Miss P is adamant that she didnt withdraw this money, and that she still has 
the passbook  for this account. But I think that its most likely that the money  in this account 
was withdrawn in 1998,  as Yorkshire has said. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that it is possible that, due to the passage  of time, Miss P has 
forgotten that this money was taken out. But, whether or not thats  what  happened, Im 
satisfied that Yorkshire doesnt have this money  now. So it doesnt have to pay that to 
Miss P. And I havent seen anything  to suggest to me that Yorkshire has stolen Miss Ps 
money, as she had feared. So I dont think it has to pay further compensation.
I know that Miss P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9740848