K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with an offer Black  Horse Limited has made  him to put things right after he 
acquired a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In August  2018  Mr R acquired a used car from a dealer  who Ill refer to as P. It was around 
two years old and had covered around  6,134  miles.  He took a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse  to cover the full cost of the car which was £14,127. The agreement  was over 
five years with repayments  of £325.23  per month.
In October  2018, Mr R took the car to a garage  who told him it had significant issues  and 
had previously been involved in an accident. Mr R contacted  P and said he wanted to reject  
the car. P said it would allow him to return the car and would organise a replacement  if Mr R 
wanted. It also offered  Mr R £200  as an apology. Mr R returned the car to P, but didnt want 
the replacement  offered  as it was a lower  specification and more expensive.  He said he was 
unhappy with the offer from P and so contacted Black Horse. 
In November 2018 Black Horse issued a final repose letter (FRL).  It agreed to the rejection 
of the car. It also offered  the return of the two instalments to the agreement Mr R had paid 
with 8% simple interest added, £100  for trouble and upset caused and £50 for impaired 
usage. It also said it would consider  further costs if Mr R could show  he paid them.  
Black Horse  issued a further  FRL in December 2018. It revised its offer and in addition to 
what it originally said, also agreed  to cover £42.42 for insurance premiums  - for a period of 
six days between Mr R returning a courtesy car to the dealer and the car being rejected - 
and £75.89 for an insurance cancellation fee. It also offered 8% simple interest on these 
sums.
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to us. He said hed had to borrow 
money from family to get a replacement car so should be compensated, hed incurred further 
insurance costs after rejecting  the car, his new insurance premium  was higher and hed had 
to take a day off work to look for a car. He estimated his costs at £1,500.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said she thought Black Horses  offer from 
December 2018  was reasonable. Mr R remained unhappy and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
In this case, its not in dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr R acquired  
it - and the car has now been returned to P. So, what I need to consider is whether  
Black Horses offer to put this situation right is fair.
Ref: DRN96855152Ive thought about what Mr R said about having  to borrow  money from family to get another 
car. Mr R said he couldnt get further  finance because the amount with Black  Horse was still 
outstanding. But, I havent seen any evidence to show this was the case. And, in any event, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr R has lost out financially by borrowing money  from 
family  after all he put the money towards  a new car which  he now I presume he owns. 
Hed have to pay to be kept mobile   be that to a credit agreement  with Black Horse,  to 
another car finance house or to repaying his family. So, Im satisfied Black Horse shouldnt  
pay any compensation for this.
Mr R says his new insurance policy is more expensive than his old one. But, insurance 
premiums can vary for a wide variety of reasons. And, the replacement  car isnt the same 
specific model as the one Mr R had financed by Black Horse. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest Mr Rs premium  went up specifically  because  of what  went wrong. So it follows I 
dont think Black Horse should  cover  any difference in cost.
Mr R says Black Horse  should cover a premium of £214.97 that he was charged by his 
original insurer. Mr R has sent in some evidence about this. He paid an initial  deposit  when  
he took out the insurance, then one premium of £214.97 on 16 September  2018. A further 
premium was attempted to be collected  on 16 October 2018, but Mr R had cancelled his 
direct debit so it was returned on 17 October 2018. Hes also shown his insurer was chasing 
him for the October  payment in March 2019. But, Ive had to consider that Mr R has also 
given us another letter from his insurer dated  29 November 2018.
This letter says Your Balance  Has Been Settled in bold at the top of the letter and later 
Thank you for your payment of £75.89 in respect  of the motor insurance policy that was 
cancelled on 13/10/2018 12:53.  We can confirm that the outstanding balance  has been 
settled. So this tends to suggest there  was nothing further for Mr R to pay at this time  and 
the insurance was cancelled  before the premium was attempted  to be taken  in October. To 
explore this further, Ive asked Mr R several times to provide evidence  of why the insurer  
was chasing him for funds after saying the balance was settled, but he hasnt been able to 
provide this. 
I dont know why Mr R was being pursued  for funds after this time - and he may wish to 
contact his insurer about this. But because there is evidence to say that the account was 
settled - and without the further clarifying  evidence I asked for - I dont think I can fairly ask 
Black Horse  to cover any further payments Mr R has made to the insurance policy  after it 
was cancelled and the car returned. Nor do I think I can ask it to reimburse any insurance 
payments that appear to cover  the period when he could actually drive the car.
I can understand it must have been frustrating  for Mr R to have to take a days  holiday to 
look for another car. But as far as Im aware  he hasnt lost out financially because of this. 
And Im sorry to hear about the particular impact all of this has had on Mr R and his health.  
Ive also considered this along with Black Horses  offer of £150 overall in compensation for 
trouble and upset  caused  which I think is fair.
Ref: DRN96855153my final decision
Black Horse  Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr R:
£650.46* for the payments made towards  the finance**
£75.89* for the insurance  cancellation  charge
£42.42* insurance  costs for when Mr R didnt have a hire car
£150 for impaired  usage and trouble and upset
*Black Horse Limited also offered to pay 8% simple  interest on these amounts.
**Black Horse Limited has confirmed  this has already been paid to Mr R, so it doesnt need 
to reimburse him again. But it said it hasnt yet paid the 8% interest  on this amount.
Thinking about  everything Ive seen, Im satisfied this was a fair offer under the 
circumstances. So, my decision  is that Black Horse  should pay Mr R the amounts 
outstanding above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9685515