K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs V say that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in November 2004. They say that the policy  was added to 
their account  without either their knowledge  or consent, and that the costs of the policy  were 
not disclosed.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in November 2004 in 
connection with a personal loan.  The policy was added  to Mr and Mrs Vs account when they 
applied for the loan.  The policy covered Mr V only. The policy cost £22.90 each month  and 
would, following a successful claim,  have paid a monthly benefit  of £243.63 for up to 
60 months in the event  Mr V couldnt  work because of accident  or sickness,  or 12 months in 
the event of unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
 I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs V aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose 
to take it. Halifax doesnt have a copy of Mr and Mrs Vs application form  but thats 
not surprising  as the sale took place nearly  15 years ago. But I have seen a sample of 
the application form Halifax used at the time of the sale and I can see that customers 
were given  the choice about whether to purchase PPI. And the Yes option and No 
option were presented equally prominently.
Moreover, Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Vs Personal  Loan Agreement which was 
given to them to take home to check,  sign and have witnessed before they returned it 
to the bank. Ive noted that the option  of PPI was selected and that Mr and Mrs V then 
signed the agreement and had the paperwork witnessed by one of their neighbours. I 
can see that it would have been possible to choose  to proceed without PPI, and that 
this option (not taking PPI) was presented equally  prominently. Ive considered the fact 
that the Loan Agreement is typed, but considering this was an advised  sale,  I am 
persuaded that the details, including Mr and Mrs Vs name and address together  with 
the loan particulars were filled in by the bank before the paperwork was given to them.
So taking everything into consideration, I think Mr and Mrs V knew  the PPI was 
optional and chose  to purchase it.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs V, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time; Mr V 
told us that he had some  sick pay from his employer that would provide protection  in 
the event that he couldnt work  due to accident or sickness; and they told us they had 
Ref: DRN92757402no savings or other means to support themselves if Mr V wasnt working. But this was 
a loan of £25,000 and was secured  on their property and there would have been 
serious implications if Mr and Mrs V were  unable to meet their repayments. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that recommending  this policy wasnt  unsuitable.
 Its possible the information Halifax provided about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr and Mrs V chose to take out the policy  and so appear to have 
wanted this type of cover.  Mr V wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
that mightve made it more difficult to make  a successful claim  he told us he was 
employed and in good health. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. The loan agreement signed  by Mr and Mrs V records the cost of the policy 
as £22.90 per month and, as a regular premium, it could be cancelled  at any point  if 
Mr and Mrs V decided  they no longer wanted  protection or could no longer afford it. So 
I think it unlikely they wouldve made  a different  decision  if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs V have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs V paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs V 
back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs V now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9275740