K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the advice he received from ReAssure Limited when he was sold an 
income protection policy.
background
ReAssure sold Mr B an income protection policy in 1992. Mr B was diagnosed with 
Huntingtons disease and was receiving  the benefit under the policy.  He says the policy was 
mis-sold to him as he believed the policy would  cover  him until the age of 60, at which stage 
hed be entitled  to receive a pension. 
However, the policy expired ten months  before then. ReAssure says thats  because  the 
policy was due to expire  on the anniversary of the policy preceding  Mr Bs 60th birthday. 
Mr B doesnt  think thats right so he brought a complaint  to us. Our investigator  didnt  think  
ReAssure had done anything wrong. Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to look at 
everything afresh. So the complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
I understand that Mr B was advised to take out the policy and so ReAssure had to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for him. Considering Mr Bs circumstances at the time the policy 
was sold, I dont think the policy expiring ten months before he reached  the age of 60 meant 
that it was unsuitable. 
Ive looked at the application form that was completed for Mr B at the time and under 
section 11, there are four ages from which the applicant can choose  from when  deciding  the 
expiry date of the policy; 50, 55, 60 and for male  applicants  only - 65. It says the policy  will 
expire at the policys anniversary  preceding those ages. 
Mr B says he was planning to retire at 60 and would be entitled to a pension once he 
reached that age. So I dont  think the recommendation given  for the policy  to expire  on the 
date of the policys anniversary before Mr Bs 60th birthday   was unsuitable.
Even in an advised  sale,  Mr B shouldve been given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the main terms of the policy; including when it was due to expire.
Section 11 the application  form  which Mr B signed  shows  that hed chosen for the policy  
to expire on the anniversary  of the policy proceeding his 60th birthday. The actual expiry 
date of the policy is on the policy schedule  and that falls around 10 months before Mr Bs 
60th birthday. So I think he was clearly told of the policys expiry  date at the time it was sold. 
I can also see that Mr B was sent letters during  the lifetime of the policy which  set out the 
policys expiry date.  For example, a letter dated January 1998 enclosed  an illustration of 
benefits statement  which sets out the actual expiry date  and its ten months  before  Mr Bs 
60th birthday. And a letter dated August 2012 also explains that the policy will expire  on that 
particular date, provided he pays his premiums.
Ref: DRN99446142If that wasnt Mr Bs understanding, I think its likely that he wouldve noticed  that the policy 
was due to expire  before  his 60th birthday  and he wouldve had various opportunities to 
question that throughout  the lifetime  of the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9944614