K821x#15complaint
Mr S is registered blind, and complains  about the service he received from 
Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital One) when he tried to make an application for a credit  
card. 
background
When Mr S rang Capital One to make an application  for a credit  card he was told that the 
only way he could do this was on line. The advisor suggested that he have a family member  
or friend sit with him to help with the application  process. 
Mr S felt that Capital  One had not made  reasonable adjustments  under the Equality Act and 
rang Capital  One to make a complaint. They said he couldnt make  a complaint as he wasnt  
a customer of theirs.
 
Capital One said they had made company decision only to accept applications online and 
there were no exceptions to that rule. They pointed out that their website had been approved 
by the RNIB and provides  ways  for blind  consumers to access their online facilities and 
contact them  once  their application is accepted.
Mr S was unhappy with Capital Ones  response and so brought  his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked into matters and thought  Capital One had not treated Mr S fairly 
because it was expecting  him to share  his personal information with someone else in order  
to make the application.  He suggested  that Capital One adjusts their process to allow Mr S 
to make an application over the telephone and thought they should  also pay Mr S £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  
Capital One didnt fully agree with that suggestion, and so the complaint has been  passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on the 20 January 2020 noting  that 
Capital One had accepted  the complaint from Mr S in part and offered to pay him £150 in 
compensation to put matters right. I had thought at that time that the £150 had already been  
paid but Capital One has confirmed that it was not. They do confirm it will be paid on Mr Ss 
acceptance of this decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Capital One and Mr S have accepted  my provision decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This crux of this complaint  centres on the Equality Act and the issue  of whether reasonable 
adjustments ought to have been made  for Mr S to assist him in overcoming the very obvious 
barriers he faced when  making an online application  fro a credit  card.  
Ref: DRN97107692The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  resolve individual 
disputes between  financial  institutions and consumers and to award redress where it is 
appropriate so to do. 
We cannot require  financial institutions  to change  their processes. That is the role of the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. Neither  can we police compliance with the 
Equality Act or any other legislation covering disability.
However there is an aspect of the complaint I can consider and that is Capital Ones refusal  
in the first instance  to accept that Mr S could make  a complaint at all. I am pleased to see 
that ultimately Capital  One did accept the complaint  and have offered to pay Mr S £150 
accepting in so doing that they had fallen  into error.
What I need to decide is whether Capital  One acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr S and so I have given  some thought  to the £150 offer of compensation and I think  that 
this is a fair and reasonable amount. It is in line with the awards this service would make  for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think it is fair and enough to put 
matters right.
But I dont think I can tell Capital One that they must amend their processes  because I dont 
think I have the power to do that.
my final decision
My final decision is that Capital One (Europe) Plc must pay £150 to Mr S settle the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9710769