K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Pen Underwriting Limited (Pen)  has unfairly  refused to carry out further  
work on his subsidence claim, even though new damage has emerged. Mr B said he doesnt 
want a second  subsistence claim against his property and said that it should have been  fixed  
professionally the first time he claimed.
background 
Mr B said he noticed cracks  in his property in December 2015 and made a claim to Pen. The 
claim for subsidence was accepted and in 2016  the cause was identified  as clay shrinkage 
caused by neighbouring  vegetation. Mr B said vegetation was removed and the remedial 
work and monitoring  were completed  in August 2017, but a year later new cracks appeared, 
and he claimed  to his new insurer.
Mr Bs new insurer  obtained an expert  report and declined  his claim saying it should be dealt 
with by Pen as it emanated from the same cause and was a continuation of the original 
claim. It said an arboriculturalist report should have been completed  by Pen in 2016 to 
establish exactly which vegetation needed to be managed and this could have avoided  
recurrence of the problem. 
Mr B said Pens agent told him that had he appointed an arboriculturalist to confirm  the 
mitigation works required, further  damage  to the property  wouldnt  have  occurred. However, 
in its response to the complaint Pen said an arboriculturalists report  wasnt  necessary as the 
removal of vegetation  remedied  the subsidence. Pen said it isnt responsible  for future  
proofing the property  and as it showed  no signs of movement after monitoring, Pen had met 
its obligation to the claim.  Pen thought any further  movement  should be considered as a new 
claim by Mr Bs new insurer.
The investigator said that as Mr B notified  his new insurer after eight weeks but within  a year 
of his current policy starting, the claim should  be accepted by the insurer first notified of it, 
Pen. She said that in accordance with an insurance  industry subsidence agreement  the 
costs should be shared  between the two insurers.  She said reports  from Mr Bs current 
insurers loss adjusters show the current  problems  have  been caused before by vegetation  
and clay shrinkage. She said Pen had been  invited to, but hadnt commented on the reports.
Mr B agreed with the investigator,  but despite  several requests from the investigator, Pen 
didnt respond.  Consequently, the complaint  has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im surprised that Pen didnt respond to 
the investigators findings, but I have taken  its previous comments into consideration.
Pens comment to Mr B attempts to place the responsibility on him to have  identified  the 
cause of the subsidence. But Mr B isnt an expert and shouldnt be expected  to obtain expert  
advice. When policyholders make a claim they should be able to rely on their insurer to 
determine what evidence  is required  before  repairs are undertaken. 
In order to determine if a new subsidence claim arises in this case  and if so which insurer  
should be responsible for the claim, I need to establish if the works completed  in 2016 and 
Ref: DRN951766422017 addressed  the underlying causes of subsidence. This is because  we expect insurers to 
make lasting and effective repairs in respect  of an insurance claim.
I can see that in April 2016 it was agreed there  was subsidence and the suspected  cause of 
this was clay shrinkage aggravated  by vegetation  in Mr Bs neighbours garden. Pens loss 
adjusters wrote to the neighbour to request the management of the vegetation,  but I cant  
see how the loss adjuster  established which vegetation needed to be managed or how this 
should be done. Mr Bs neighbour removed  some vegetation and the loss adjuster thought 
that the vegetation responsible for the subsidence  had been  dealt with. But, again, no 
evidence has been provided as to how the loss adjuster assessed whether the correct 
vegetation had been managed or whether  it had been managed effectively.
Pen said there was no movement in Mr Bs home between April 2016 and November 2016. 
However, the reports show that between these dates there was some  movement. And as 
there do not appear to have been  any readings  prior to work commencing in spring  2017  it 
cant be shown that there  was no further movement after November 2016.  As there  was no 
arboricultural report in 2016 or 2017, we cant be certain the trees  that were removed were  
the only vegetation causing  the clay shrinkage  and subsidence.
Ive considered the reports that Mr Bs new insurer provided, and it appears that the same 
roots have been identified  in the same area as the cause of the current subsidence. Based 
on this I think its likely  that the vegetation thats  now affecting Mr Bs home was present and 
potentially having  an impact at the time of his original claim.  Even  if the vegetation remaining 
wasnt having a direct impact on the stability of his home at the time of the original claim, I 
dont think it would be fair to say that Pen carried out a lasting and effective  repair.  This is 
because of the relatively short amount of time that has passed since  the remedial works 
were carried  out and cracks reappearing in his home.
The monitoring shows  that Mr Bs home  continued to suffer  movement throughout the 
period, increasing  by November 2016. Ive considered whether this movement is enough for 
me to conclude that the subsidence issues hadnt been resolved. And I agree with the 
investigator that from the evidence it would appear more  likely than not that some movement 
did continue.
I appreciate that insurers arent responsible for future proofing homes, but they should  
ensure that theyre doing whats  necessary to complete effective and lasting  repairs.  I think it 
would have been reasonable for Pen to have  identified  precisely  which vegetation was 
affecting the property using  a specialist. I then think it would have been reasonable for it to 
assess the work carried out by the neighbour to ensure that a lasting and effective repair 
could be made to Mr Bs home. From the evidence, I cant see that this happened.
Whilst I cant say conclusively that the roots now present are from the same plants as those 
discovered in 2016. On balance I think the evidence shows its likely that more mitigation 
work needed to be done in identifying and dealing  with vegetation  to enable an effective and 
lasting repair. I think its more likely than not the recent subsidence is a continuation of the 
damage Mr B reported to Pen in December 2015. Consequently, I agree with the 
investigator that Pen should deal with the damage to Mr Bs home and may do so in 
accordance with the insurance industry  subsidence  agreement.
I think this situation  could have been avoided had further investigation been made by Pen 
into the neighbouring vegetation in 2016. Had the repair made at the outset been effective 
and lasting this situation could have  been  avoided and Mr B would  have been  saved a great 
Ref: DRN95176643deal of stress and delay.  For the impact on Mr B of these avoidable problems I think  Pen 
should pay him £200 compensation. I also dont think it would be fair for Pen to ask Mr B to 
pay any further excess, or record this as a second  claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Pen Underwriting Limited to deal with the damage to Mr Bs home under his original 
subsidence claim. This means that Pen Underwriting  Limited should not charge Mr B a 
further excess payment  against the further repairs that will be required, and it should pay him 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its handling  of his claim has caused 
him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9517664