K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Standard  Life Assurance Limited didnt take enough steps to ensure he 
received the maturity proceeds from his endowment policy on time.  Because  of that he had 
to make two additional payments on his mortgage. 
background
Mr S had an interest only mortgage  with Northern Rock. In support of that he had an 
endowment policy with Standard Life. The policy was assigned  to Northern Rock. Mr S 
repaid his mortgage with Northern Rock in about 2003/4. 
Mr Ss policy  was due to mature on 28 March 2019. On 14 February 2019, Standard Life 
wrote to both Northern Rock and Mr S to notify  them the policy  was about to mature. And as 
the policy was still assigned to Northern Rock,  Standard Life wanted payment instructions. 
Mr S got in touch with Standard Life on 26 February 2019 to explain the Northern Rock  
mortgage had been repaid some years  before. Standard Life explained it would need 
Northern Rock to release  its interest  before it would be able to pay any proceeds.  It also 
suggested Mr S contact Northern Rock  as that would speed up the process. 
Standard Life received  a reply from Northern Rock  on 19 February, but this only contained  a 
string of zeros. There were no payment instructions  nor confirmation it had released its 
assignment. Standard Lifes previous experience  of this meant it was likely it needed to 
contact Landmark  Mortgages to establish the position (Landmark had taken over some  of 
the Northern Rock mortgages). And so it wrote to Landmark on 27 February 2019. But 
Standard Life didnt receive any reply  prior to the maturity date of 28 March. It wrote  again to 
Northern Rock and Landmark on 11, 17 and 29 April but without reply.  
In early April, following  contact from Mr S, Standard Life explained it hadnt received a reply  
about the policy. It again suggested Mr S get in touch himself  with Northern Rock as it 
wouldnt be able to release proceeds until such time as the assignment  was released. And 
Mr S was told this again at the beginning of May.  Mr S then contacted  Northern Rock 
through its website  and obtained the necessary  confirmation to allow the proceeds to be paid 
to him. Standard  Life subsequently sent the funds  on 15 May 2019.  
Mr S complained to Standard Life as the delay in him receiving the proceeds meant he had 
to pay a further two mortgage payments. He complained it hadnt done enough to comply  
with its duty to ensure it was in a position to pay the funds on maturity. Standard Life didnt 
uphold the complaint as it was satisfied it had followed  the correct process. 
Although our investigator initially  upheld the complaint, she ultimately concluded that 
Standard Life hadnt done anything wrong. Mr S has asked for the matter to be escalated. In 
summary, he argues:
His contract was with Standard Life and it should have ensured it had done 
everything necessary  to release the maturity proceeds on time. 
It didnt make enough attempts to contact  Northern Rock about  the matter;  he 
suggests it could  have phoned and doesnt accept there would  have been  any data 
protection issues with this.
The policy was connected to the mortgage  and so Standard  Life should have had the 
mortgage details.
When Standard  Life wrote to Northern  Rock it used  his current  address details which 
wouldnt have been known to Northern Rock  as he had moved several times since  
Ref: DRN98326632being its customer. When he used the correct details Northern Rock replied within 48 
hours. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr S and Standard Life, that although I have  summarised 
the background and arguments above, I have read and considered  everything in its entirety  
when reaching  my decision. 
Mr S makes  much of his contract being with Standard Life. That is correct.  But the deed of 
assignment, which is a legal  document, meant  that the proceeds of the policy  whether 
thats as a result of a claim on the life cover or the maturity proceeds  belonged  to Northern 
Rock until such time as it released that assignment. I appreciate Mr S thought  it only related 
to the life cover, but thats not correct. The assignment assigns the policy,  not just the life 
cover. 
When the mortgage a policy is assigned to ends, its the lenders responsibility to notify the 
policy provider that it releases  the assignment. So Northern Rock should  have  notified  
Standard Life of that when the mortgage was repaid. As the policy was still assigned  when it 
reached maturity that means either:
Northern Rock didnt  take any steps to notify  Standard Life; or
Northern Rock did take steps  to notify  Standard Life but it didnt reach Standard  Life, 
for whatever  reason;  or
It did reach Standard  Life but Standard Life didnt act on it. 
I have no evidence either way about what happened when the mortgage was repaid. And so 
I cant say it was wrong for Standard  Life to still have  Northern  Rocks  assignment on record  
when the policy matured. That meant  it couldnt  pay the proceeds to Mr S. I accept he 
informed Standard Life that the mortgage had been repaid, but that didnt mean it could 
ignore the legal assignment and pay the proceeds  to him. 
When Northern Rock  was hit by the financial crash in 2008  it was subsequently broken up 
into more than one bank. And since  then both Landmark Mortgages and Virgin  Money have 
taken over those mortgages.  Contrary to Mr Ss assumptions Standard Life wouldnt have 
had any of the details of the mortgage (as it wasnt necessary for it to have these), outside of 
the assignment, or any knowledge  of who would be the correct party to contact in 2019  
about the policy. And having looked at the assignment, this doesnt appear to contain the 
mortgage account number (it is a poor-quality copy). 
Mr S argues  that Standard Life should have done more,  to ensure it was in a position to pay 
the proceeds. I dont agree, and even if I did, I dont think it would have made  a difference. It 
wrote out twice before maturity but received no response.  And it wasnt  until 8 April 2019 that 
Mr S provided the mortgage account  number  (something Standard Life wasnt in possession  
of before). The mortgage account  number  should  have been  sufficient information for 
Northern Rock to locate the account  information and provide confirmation of its release of 
assignment. But even when Standard Life wrote to both Northern Rock  and Landmark 
Mortgages with this information  in April it still didnt  get a reply. So Im not persuaded that 
Ref: DRN98326633had it used Mr Ss address details from 2003, or wrote more  often prior to maturity, that it 
would have got a different, or any, response. 
Mr S argues  Standard Life ought  to have called Northern Rock  to obtain the information it 
needed; he doesnt believe there  are any data protection  issues  that would have prevented  
this. Again Im afraid I disagree. As Mr S acknowledges himself, his mortgage with Northern 
Rock was separate from his policy with Standard Life. The existence  of the policy  and the 
assignment was unlikely to have been sufficient for Standard Life to pass  security without  
Mr Ss express authority. So even had it tried calling, and this isnt necessarily a step I would 
except it to take, its highly unlikely it would  have received the information  it needed  in the 
absence of that authority. 
Mr S was aware something had gone  wrong when his maturity  proceeds hadnt been paid 
out as expected on 28 March. And in email correspondence between Mr S and Standard Life 
on 5 April, he was informed that the proceeds  couldnt be paid until the assignment was 
released. It was also again  suggested that he contact Northern Rock  to expedite matters,  a 
suggestion Standard Life made a third time in May. Mr S had a duty to mitigate his situation,  
and he was aware as early as 5 April that Standard Life was having  problems with obtaining 
the necessary  information from Northern Rock. But he didnt contact Northern Rock himself   
until over a month later. Had he done so sooner, he would  likely have received a response 
(given the speed with which Northern Rock replied in May) that would have resulted in the 
proceeds being released in April, thus negating a mortgage payment in May and so 
mitigating his financial losses. 
I do understand Mr S feels very strongly  about this. But Im satisfied Standard  Life took 
reasonable steps to obtain  the information  needed to release  the proceeds  on the maturity 
date. Im not persuaded that had additional information been sought  in that time, that it would 
have resulted in a response from Northern Rock,  given later additional information didnt. It 
follows that I make no award against Standard Life. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832663