K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that when  a cheque he paid into his account was returned unpaid,  
Santander UK plc gave  him misleading  information, causing confusion  and inconvenience.   
background
Mr P was, with a relative,  an executor of an estate; he was also a beneficiary. They  opened 
an executors account for the estate  with another bank, which Ill call bank A. In December 
2018 he and his fellow executor signed a cheque  for £73,000, made  payable  to Mr P. He 
paid it in to his account with Santander.
Santander processed the cheque in the usual  way, but bank A returned  it marked  Advice  of 
drawing required  please re-present. Bank A explained that this meant it needed additional  
authorisation before it could pay the cheque.  Mr P contacted Santander and was told that 
Santander could  re-present the cheque. In fact, that isnt a service  that Santander offers, and 
it seems the cheque may have been destroyed by then in any event.    
Mr P was able to arrange for a new cheque  to be issued, although, due to the distance 
between the account holders, this wasnt straightforward. The money was credited  to his 
account nearly three weeks after it would have been, had the original cheque  had been paid. 
Santander didnt  think it was responsible for the underlying problem, since  it was bank A that 
had returned the cheque  unpaid. It acknowledged though that it hadnt  explained  things very 
well and paid Mr P a total of £65 in recognition of the anxiety and inconvenience hed been 
caused. 
Mr P didnt think that went far enough.  He pointed  out that bank A had been rather more  
generous than Santander in paying compensation. 
When Mr P referred the matter to this service,  one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought though that Santanders payment of £65 was enough in the circumstances. Mr P 
didnt agree, and so the case has been  passed  to me  as the final stage in our 
consideration of it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusion as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I think its important to note here that Mr Ps difficulties stem from the fact that bank A 
returned the cheque unpaid. Its not for me to say in the context of this complaint whether  
bank A was right to do so, but it wasnt  Santanders decision. I do agree though that 
Santander could  have explained  rather better what it could and couldnt do to help. Had it 
done so, Mr P would  have  been  less frustrated  by events. 
Nevertheless, I think resolving the issue was always  likely to require the executors to issue  a 
replacement cheque. As Mr P has explained,  that wasnt entirely  convenient and took a little 
time. So, even if Santander  had said at the outset that this was the best solution, I think the 
overall outcome  was likely  to be much the same. The delay in crediting the account  might 
have been reduced by a few days and Mr P would have suffered  less distress,  but he would 
still have had to deal with the fact that bank A hadnt  paid the first cheque. 
Ref: DRN92066162Taking all of this into account,  I agree with the adjudicator that Santander has done enough 
here. Its payment of £65 is towards  the lower end of what  I would  consider  fair, but not so 
low that I believe I should make an award  requiring  it to do more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK plc to do any more to resolve Mr Ps 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9206616