K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, charging him overdraft 
fees after it agreed not to and agreed  a repayment  plan with him. Hes also unhappy with the 
way it dealt with him over the overdraft.
background
Mr Cs account was overdrawn  and Halifax stopped  charging him overdraft fees near the
start of 2017. He contacted Halifax again  in June 2017, as hed been  charged some more
fees. It agreed to refund some fees.  It also put the fees on hold while  its customer  priority
team worked with Mr C to help him deal with his overdraft.
Mr C then realised overdraft  fees had started  again and complained  about  this in April 2018.
He said hed agreed a repayment  plan at £20 per month, which  hed stuck  to and overdraft
fees shouldnt  have restarted.
Halifax wrote  to him to say the way it calculated fees had changed. It also suggested  Mr Cs 
account went to the recoveries  department where the debt would be frozen and no more  
fees would  be charged.  Halifax went on to say Mr C was reluctant to agree to this and 
decided to go into the branch and he was told it would start charging overdraft fees again.
Mr C still wasnt  happy, so he complained to us. Our investigator investigated the complaint.
He told Mr C why he didnt think Halifax had done  anything wrong and he didnt think
Mr C had agreed a repayment  plan. He also felt Halifax had taken reasonable steps to help
Mr C manage  his debt.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 December 2018  in which I explained why I felt Halifax 
had taken reasonable steps to help Mr C. 
Soon after this Mr C let us know that Halifax had written to him to say that between  
October 2015 and February 2018 it didnt  always take the appropriate  course of action  when 
dealing with his account. It went on to explain that it was refunding all the interest, fees 
and/or charges in this period with interest. 
Mr C explained he felt this showed I was wrong to suggest Halifax had taken reasonable 
steps. And wanted  me to reconsider  his case in light of this. 
I asked Halifax to explain why it had done  this, when its complaint handling  team felt it had 
taken reasonable  steps. It couldnt really  explain this, but agreed   in light of what had 
happened to pay Mr C £200 in compensation for any distress and inconvenience  hed 
experienced as result  of the way it had handled his account. 
I telephoned Mr C and explained I felt this offer was fair. In doing so, I said that  while it was 
hard to see from Halifaxs records where  theyd  treated him in appropriately  now it had 
admitted this, I felt it was fair for them to compensate him for any distress and inconvenience 
this had caused him. I further explained that I thought £200 was fair, based  on the evidence I 
had, which  I think shows Halifax generally took a reasonable approach.
Mr C doesnt think £200 is enough  compensation. He doesnt feel it properly  reflects  the 
significant impact Halifaxs approach has had on his mental well-being. And hes still 
adamant that he agreed a repayment  plan with Halifax,  which it completely ignored when it 
restarted the overdraft fees on his account.  
Ref: DRN91850372In view of this, I agreed to consider his comments and issue this final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am satisfied Halifaxs  
offer of £200 in compensation provides a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Cs complaint.
I appreciate Halifax has admitted it didnt always take the appropriate  course of action when 
dealing with Mr Cs account.  But, as I explained  in my provisional decision, Halifax  contact  
notes suggest  it adopted a reasonable approach overall. Obviously,  Halifax  feels there were  
times it could have been more helpful and I can see there  were  some occasions where it 
could have explained things better to Mr C. For example, in its letters  it didnt specifically say 
it was going to restart  overdraft fees before doing  this. But, I think  from what Ive seen  
Halifaxs failings were  limited and I dont think they caused Mr C significant distress  and 
inconvenience. Im not suggesting the situation  with his account  didnt cause  Mr C a great 
deal of anxiety  and I appreciate he found  it very difficult to cope with it. But this doesnt mean 
Halifaxs was fully responsible.
I accept Mr C was under  the impression he was in a repayment plan of £20 per month and 
made a number of payments. But I cant see anything in Halifaxs contact notes, which 
suggest it agreed this with him, so I dont  think theres strong evidence for me to say Halifax  
ignored this when it restarted overdraft fees. 
Therefore, for the reasons Ive explained, I think the £200 Halifax  has now offered in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  represents a fair and reasonable outcome to 
Mr Cs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc must pay Mr C £200 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9185037