K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  him an Additions packaged bank 
account in 1997. He also complains that his account was migrated to a Barclays Bank  
Account with Tech Pack and Travel Pack in January  2017 without his knowledge. The 
complaint is brought on his behalf  by a claims management company.
background
Mr L has held the following  bank accounts  with Barclays:
December 1992 Fee free account
August 1997 Additions account
July 2008 Additions Active account
January 2017 Bank account with Tech  Pack and Travel  Pack
Weve already told Mr Ls representative that we cannot consider the sale, in July 2008, of 
his Additions Active  account. Weve issued  a final decision to explain why, so I wont  be 
commenting on this further in this decision.
Mr L paid a monthly fee for the Additions account which provided several benefits in return.
His account was migrated to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech  Pack and Travel Pack in 
January 2017,  as part of a change to the range of products Barclays  offered. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.
Mr Ls representative, on his behalf, didnt agree but didnt provide any further evidence or 
information so the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide Mr Ls complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
sale of the Additions  account
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr L was given a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank  account.
Ref: DRN94299622Mr L took the Additions account by switching  from a fee-free account  following a meeting at 
one of the banks branches. I think Barclays gave  him a fair choice to take the packaged  
account. I havent seen anything to suggest  that he couldnt have kept his fee-free account if 
hed wanted to. In addition,  fee-free  accounts  have always been, and continue to be 
available in the UK. So I think its more  likely  that Mr L chose to upgrade his account,  
knowing he didnt have  to. Barclays sent a letter to Mr L confirming the switch, and telling 
him that he could now benefit from a £600  overdraft limit. So I think, in all likelihood, it was 
the overdraft facility on the account  which appealed to him.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Barclays made a personalised recommendation 
when it sold the account. That means  it didnt have to check  whether the account was 
suitable for Mr Ls personal  circumstances. Instead Barclays  had to give Mr L enough 
information about the account so that he could make that decision for himself.  
I think Mr L was interested  in some of the benefits  of the Additions  account and chose it 
because of these  benefits. At the time the account was sold Barclays charged  customers  
with a fee-free  account  a £5 monthly  usage  fee for using  an arranged overdraft. The 
Additions account cost £5 a month,  and one of its benefits was a waiver on the overdraft 
usage fee. It also included the first £100  of an arranged overdraft interest-free, and a number 
of other  benefits, including  cardholder protection, purchase protection, life assurance, legal 
and tax helpline and a will writing service.
Mr L was using his overdraft regularly in 1996, and continued to do so after he upgraded his 
account. Bearing in mind  that, if he hadnt  upgraded, hed have  paid £5 to use the overdraft, 
plus interest on the full overdrawn balance, I can see why he mightve decided to upgrade.  
For the same monthly cost he was able to continue  using  his overdraft, whilst paying interest 
on a reduced amount  of it, and he had access to the accounts  other  benefits  too. He might 
not have gone on to use the other benefits, but I dont  think hes lost out by upgrading for the 
reasons Ive just explained. I also cant see anything to suggest he couldnt have used the 
accounts other benefits if hed wanted  to.
Its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mr L everything it should have about the Additions 
account. But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough to make  me think that 
Mr L wouldnt still have taken the account, even  if Barclays had told him more about it.  
migration to the Barclays account with Tech and Travel Packs
In January 2017, Mr Ls account was changed to a fee-free account with a Tech  Pack and 
Travel Pack.  These  Packs  included certain  benefits,  in return  for a monthly fee. Barclays 
sent Mr L a letter about this change  at the end of September 2016.  This highlighted that the 
change would take place on 13 January 2017  when  Mr Ls existing account would be 
removed. It was reasonably clear  from this letter that the new account was fee-free but that, 
unless he let Barclays know that he didnt want them, the Packs  would be added as a way of 
replicating the benefits he already  had as closely as possible. It also confirms that there 
would be a monthly fee. I find it was clear from the letter that Mr L didnt have to take the 
Packs and that Barclays gave him enough  time to decide if he wanted them. It wrote to him 
again in January 2017 to confirm the migration had taken place. 
The fee was higher than his existing monthly  fee  it increased by £3 a month -  and the fee-
free overdraft was less - £200  rather than £300. But, in all likelihood,  Mr L was still happy to 
pay for the overdraft benefit and I think he mustve been interested in the benefits in the 
Packs because he decided to take them.
Ref: DRN94299623I want to reassure Mr L that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having  done so I dont think  the accounts have 
been mis-sold. So I dont  think  Barclays owes him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9429962