K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt notify him that his cheque  hadnt been paid. And 
they gave him incorrect information about alternative ways he could pay the money to the 
beneficiary. 
background 
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 22 March 2019. A copy  of this is attached  
and forms part of this final decision. In it I set out why I thought  this complaint should be 
upheld and what Lloyds  needed to do to put things right.
Both parties  have been given time to consider my provisional decision. Lloyds have 
responded and said that they accept  my provisional decision. Mr L has responded and said 
that hes happy with the compensation award  that I put forward.  But he doesnt  feel I 
answered his concerns  about Lloyds process  for notifying customers when  theyve stopped 
a payment for security reasons. He feels that Lloyds lack of action here could have had 
disastrous consequences if someone  had fraudulently accessed his accounts. And hes 
disappointed the bank hasnt reassured him that a mistake like this wont happen again.
Mr L has also clarified that Lloyds should  only have had one telephone number for him  the 
correct one  on their records. And he feels that they should have asked him to telephone 
them to talk about his complaint if they could not discuss it by email.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party is unhappy with the compensation I proposed Lloyds should pay Mr L in my 
provisional decision. And whilst I thank  Mr L for the clarifications he has provided about  his 
telephone number and his email  exchange  with Lloyds, I see no reason for me to change my 
provisional decision. Though I suggest Mr L may wish to contact Lloyds directly to ensure 
that the details  they hold for him are correct, and any old telephone numbers have been 
removed from his account.
 
I would like to add that whilst I understand Mr L is concerned about Lloyds' process here,  its 
not my role to review the banks process, or to say what its process should be. That is the 
role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority. So whilst I appreciate Mr L is 
disappointed that Lloyds havent engaged  in conversation with him about it, I cant 
reasonably ask them to do so.
Ref: DRN94181782my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I understand Mr L has been  paid a total of 
£386.20 for expenses, and £75 compensation to date.  To put things right I require
Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Mr L a further £275 compensation for the trouble and upset their 
actions caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019. 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN94181783copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds  Bank PLC didnt  notify him that his cheque hadnt been  paid. And they 
gave him incorrect  information  about  alternative ways he could pay the money to the beneficiary. 
background
In November 2018 Lloyds  stopped a cheque Mr L had written to his solicitors, and the funds  were 
returned to his account.  Mr L wasnt told by Lloyds that his cheque hadnt been  paid. He says he only 
realised that there  was a problem  some time later after checking his bank statements.
Mr L telephoned  Lloyds  as he needed  to get the money to his solicitors urgently. Lloyds initially  told 
him that there were restrictions on how much he could transfer from an account in one day, but as he 
had a number of accounts with them he would  be able to transfer money  from each to make up the 
total he needed  to pay to his solicitors. This was incorrect.
Mr L complained  to Lloyds. They explained that they hadnt honoured  his cheque as the signature on 
it did not match  the one they held for him on record. They said that they did try to call Mr L to let him 
know this, but noted that they hadnt tried all of the contact numbers  they held for him. They  agreed 
this fell below the level of service Mr L should expect from them. And they acknowledged he had been 
given incorrect information  about transferring money which caused further delays.
Lloyds reimbursed Mr L £316.20 in additional costs he incurred when dealing with his solicitors as a 
result of the delay, as well as £70 to cover the cost of his calls to Lloyds. They also awarded him £75 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr L didnt feel that this compensation fairly reflected the distress  that Lloyds actions caused him. 
And he wants them  to give him an assurance that if they stop a cheque from his account again, they 
will let him know as a matter of urgency. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator asked Lloyds to increase the compensation they had paid Mr L by £150.  But Mr L 
thinks that total compensation  of £2,000 would  better reflect  the impact  Lloyds mistakes have had on 
him. And he wants them to put measures in place to ensure this situation wont arise again. So the 
case has been passed  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont think  it would be fair 
to ask Lloyds to pay him £2,000 compensation. However, I will be asking them to increase the amount 
of compensation they have  offered him to date.  I think it would be fair for them to pay him a total of 
£350 for the trouble  and upset he has experienced; in addition  to the £386.20 they have given  him to 
cover his additional  costs. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds say they stopped Mr Ls cheque because  the signature on it did not match  the one on their 
records. Lloyds are entitled not to pay cheques if they have security concerns. And having  looked at 
the information they have  given us about when  they might return a cheque unpaid, Im satisfied that 
they followed their process correctly when  they didnt pay Mr Ls cheque. Mr L is not suggesting  that 
his cheque shouldnt  have been stopped - but he is upset by what Lloyds did afterwards.  
Lloyds tried to call Mr L to tell him that his cheque hadnt been paid,  but they only tried one of the 
contact numbers they held for him, and this was an old telephone number. They  agree  they should 
have tried to contact him using the other details  they held for him, which  were correct. If they had 
done so I think Mr L would have had the chance to make his payment again  sooner. 
Ref: DRN94181784When Mr L realised  his cheque  had been  stopped  he asked Lloyds for help to get the money to his 
solicitors urgently. Unfortunately they gave him some incorrect  information about how he could do this 
taking into account their transfer limits. 
Lloyds have agreed that they made errors here. But Lloyds and Mr L dont agree on the amount of 
compensation he should  be awarded for these mistakes. Lloyds paid Mr L £386.20 to cover additional  
costs he incurred, and gave him an additional £75 compensation for the inconvenience  caused. Our 
adjudicator asked them  to increase their award for inconvenience by £150, and Lloyds  agreed to do 
so. But Mr L still doesnt think this adequately reflects the impact their actions have had on him. 
Hes explained that he has experienced health issues  caused  by stress, which he believes Lloyds  
contributed to. Hes also concerned that Lloyds stopped his cheque  for security reasons, but didnt try 
harder to contact him to make sure that no-one had gained unauthorised access to his other accounts 
too. He thinks that £2,000 compensation  would  be a fair in the circumstances. And he wants Lloyds  to 
put measures in place to ensure this doesnt happen again, to himself or others.
This would have been a very frustrating experience for Mr L and the delay  in getting the funds to his 
solicitors clearly caused  him considerable distress. The cheque  he had written  was for a large amount 
of money, and he was going through a very difficult time. However Ive thought  about the level of 
compensation hes asked for, and Im afraid its not in line with the amount of compensation I think it 
would be fair to ask Lloyds  to pay. Its not my role to punish Lloyds for their mistakes,  but to consider 
what would be fair and reasonable to recognise the impact these mistakes had on Mr L here.
I can see Lloyds have already reimbursed him for the additional costs incurred as a result of the delay 
in paying his solicitors, and having to contact  Lloyds  about it from abroad. I think this is fair, but I do 
also agree  that Lloyds  actions caused Mr L a great deal of upset and inconvenience, and I dont think 
that the total of £225 that is currently on offer for this is sufficient.
Looking at his bank statements I can see that Mr L completed payment to his solicitors for an amount 
equal to the cheque on 21 November  2018,  after making a number of transfers to them over the 
course of a week. This was two weeks  after his cheque was stopped. And although  Im satisfied that 
Lloyds stopped his cheque correctly, I think this delay could have been reduced if theyd told him 
when they did this. 
Overall here, I think itd be fair for Lloyds  to pay Mr L £350 - in total - to recognise  the trouble  and 
upset they caused him here. Ill explain how Ive come  to that figure.
Firstly, I think  itd be fair and reasonable to ask them to pay Mr L £250 compensation  for the distress 
and inconvenience caused  when they failed to notify him that his cheque hadnt been paid. I 
appreciate Mr Ls point  that if his account had been  subject to fraudulent  activity, then Lloyds failure 
to notify  him could have resulted in losses. But fortunately this wasnt the case. And I cant ask them 
to compensate him for losses that did not occur.
However I also think Lloyds had another opportunity to help Mr L to make his payment  sooner when 
he contacted them after his cheque was stopped. But they initially  gave him incorrect information  
about how their money transfer limits operate. I think it would be reasonable for them to pay him a 
further £100  compensation  for this. It would  have been very frustrating for Mr L to be given 
misinformation when  he was urgently trying to find a solution to make  his payment as quickly as 
possible.
Mr L wants Lloyds to put measures  in place to ensure this doesnt happen  again. But I think they 
already have a process in place to contact customers when they dont honour a cheque, although 
they didnt follow that process correctly here as they didnt try all of the telephone numbers they held 
for Mr L. Its not the role of this service to tell Lloyds what their process should be. So whilst I 
understand Mr L will be disappointed, I cant ask Lloyds to review their procedures or put any different 
measures in place.
Ref: DRN94181785Mr L has also raised  some issues with the way Lloyds communicated with him when he raised his 
complaint. I can see that they failed to call him back on one occasion. But overall  I havent seen  any 
other evidence to suggest  they didnt  act as Id expect here.  And Im satisfied that the compensation  
Ive outlined above is sufficient in the circumstances.  
I can see that in addition to the telephone calls they had with him, Lloyds tried to call Mr L on a 
number of other occasions without success. I understand Mr Ls preferred  method of communication 
is by email, but Lloyds have  explained that they cannot discuss  a complaint in detail over email as 
they do not class it as a secure method of communication. And this is policy they are entitled to have.
I appreciate there  were  some delays in Mr L getting a response to some of his emails, but Lloyds did 
explain that the customer service manger  dealing with his complaint was on annual leave. And I think  
its reasonable  that Lloyds would have needed some time to consider  what he had said before issuing  
a reply. I can see from their contact notes that they initially thought they had informally resolved Mr Ls 
complaint. But when it became apparent  this wasnt the case they issued a final response letter  within 
the timescales businesses have to follow   although I appreciate Mr L would  have liked to have  
received it sooner.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
I understand Mr L has been  paid a total of £386.20 for expenses,  and £75 compensation  to date. To 
put things right I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr L a further  £275 compensation.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9418178