K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading at the time of sale as Egg, mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Ill refer mainly  to CSOL for consistency.
background
CSOL says its records show Mr D bought the PPI in 1999 over the internet with a new credit  
card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. But Mr D has already received some  money  back for the commission 
CSOL received  from selling him the PPI. Mr D still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first 
place and so disagrees with the adjudicator. His complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Id like to say that I dont  doubt that Mr Ds recollections are honestly and genuinely held. I 
also acknowledge that CSOL initially  couldnt  find the PPI policy in its records which  will 
have been frustrating for Mr D. However  this sale took place almost 20 years ago. 
Weve also been  asked to look at a number of very similar PPI sales  in relation to CSOL,  
trading as Egg and as a result of this weve obtained a lot of information  about how it 
normally sold PPI over the internet. It isnt unusual that we dont have access  to Mr Ds 
original paperwork after such a long time,  but we asked to see screen shots of the web-
based form that Mr D would have used when  completing his application back in 1999.  Ive 
looked at these images and they correspond with the many  others  that Ive seen. 
I think when he was completing his on-line application, Mr D would have been given two 
choices in relation  to the PPI. I think he would  have had to make a choice  before  being 
allowed to progress to the next stage of the form. Consumers were usually given two 
options - one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to.
I believe that Mr D selected  the yes option for the PPI to be added and I therefore think  it is 
much more likely  that he made  an active selection to buy the policy.
In addition to this I can see from Mr Ds monthly credit card statements  that he began to 
have charges on the card for credit card repayment  protector . I think this strongly shows  
that he asked  to have the PPI cover and would have been  able to see it had been  added 
directly after his credit card application.  I think if he hadnt ever asked for the PPI he would 
have wanted to know what these charges were for.
So I think the evidence  shows  Mr D asked  for the PPI policy to be added.
Ref: DRN92921842This was an internet application and so I think Mr D wouldve  made his way through the on-
line process without  any advice from CSOL. But CSOL still needed to provide information  
that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mr D could make  an informed choice about 
whether or not to go ahead  and buy the PPI.
I note that before making the on-line selection, the application web-page  contained brief 
details about the cost of the cover. I also think there was a link to view the policys  terms 
and conditions. I acknowledge that CSOL couldve possibly provided  more information at the 
point of sale, but I dont think this would have changed anything Mr D actually did.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ds situation.  I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
He told us that he was entitled to sickness cover and some  other  benefits  through his job. 
Ive thought carefully about these things  but this was a non-advised sale so the choice about 
having PPI was for Mr D to make. The PPI would have paid out 10% of his outstanding  
credit card balance for up to a year if hed needed  to claim and this would have been in 
addition to any other means  he had at that time.  I also think  the cost of the cover was 
affordable for Mr D. So I think this policy was of use.
CSOL has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because when the policy  
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should  have told him about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CSOL has already paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has already paid him for the commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9292184