K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a new car under a hire purchase agreement  with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCIFS). He says the car isnt fit for purpose and he wants to reject  it.
background
In October  2016 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new electric  car. He says 
he asked the salesman  about the cars  performance  and was told by him the car would be 
able to travel  80 miles on a full charge and that it would take 30 minutes to charge the car up 
to 80%.
Mr B also said he asked  about whether the buttons  on the dashboard drained the cars 
battery leading to reduced mileage and was told they didnt as they had a separate  battery  to 
run off.
After Mr B acquired the car he says that he found  he couldnt achieve  80 miles on a charge 
and that it took 45 minutes to achieve an 80% charged battery. He said that if it was cold 
(5 degrees) and he used  the heating then car would only make  50 miles per charge. 
In March 2018 Mr B raised his concerns about the cars performance with the dealership. 
They checked the car and could find no fault.  The dealership  said they would buy the car 
back but Mr B refused  this offer. He complained to RCIFS  that he had been  mis-sold the car 
as its performance had been  misrepresented.  
RCIFS didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It said the vehicle had been assessed  on several 
occasions and found to be fault free by the dealership. It also said that like petrol cars the 
mileage achieved by an electric car would be affected by using any of the cars components. 
It didnt agree that the car was defective.
Mr B disagreed with RCIFSs view and complained to this service.  He said that the car had 
been misrepresented, wasnt  charging  properly and he hadnt been told he needed to join a 
club to use the electric chargers.  Our investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint 
should be upheld.  She said shed watched  a number of videos supplied  by Mr B of him 
driving the car and showing the range of miles  the car had estimated it would travel  on a 
charge. She said the range was between 60  80 miles per charge. The investigator said 
that the manufacturer had advised this was an estimated  range and if there was only one 
driver of the car this estimate is based on the last five journeys the car has undertaken so 
the figure would  be more  accurate.
The investigator said Mr B had estimated on a fine day he could travel  around 70 miles but 
in cold weather this would be less. However the range of the car depended on a number of 
different factors like driving style, weather and battery age. She said that she didnt think     
Mr B had been given  misleading information  about  the possible range of the car. Taking  
account of all the variables that could affect  the range the salesmans figures hadnt 
misrepresented the cars performance.
The investigator said there wasnt any evidence that the cars battery had a fault. Diagnostic 
tests at the dealership hadnt  shown  any problem. She didnt think that RCIFS had treated 
Mr B unfairly.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators  view.  He didnt agree that his videos had shown the 
car was travelling around 60 to 80 miles per charge and said that the car only travelled 
Ref: DRN95016612around 50 miles on a full charge. He said he thought the car wasnt  safe as when he only 
had a few miles left to travel before it needed  re-charging he could get stuck as the next 
charger could be a greater distance away.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  strongly that the car was misrepresented and hes been disappointed  by the cars 
performance. He has now voluntarily  terminated the agreement and returned the car. He 
says that he should be compensated for the distress  and inconvenience  of using this car 
over the past two years. He says that he had to borrow  a family members car if he wanted 
to travel any distance.
I dont have any direct evidence about  what was said to Mr B at the point of sale and I 
havent seen the brochure for this car as there are now newer models  available.  But it 
doesnt seem disputed that 100 miles is the figure shown. RCIFS says this figure  is achieved  
in perfect driving  conditions and may not necessarily be easily achievable. Mr B says the 
salesman didnt use that figure but said that 80 miles per charge was more  likely.
Looking at the videos provided  by Mr B these  show that the car estimates a number of 
different miles per charge ranging  from around 60 up to over 80 miles. I can understand     
Mr Bs frustration  that he wasnt achieving a mileage of 80 miles each time he used  the car 
but I think its reasonable to expect the actual achievable mileage would vary as this was 
dependent on a number  of factors including the drivers style of driving, road and traffic 
conditions. Im satisfied that what these  estimated  mileages show  is that in ideal conditions 
the car wouldve been able to travel 80 miles in line with what  the salesman had said.  I dont 
think I can reasonably expect the salesman  to have been able to factor in every variable 
when giving the range that the car could  achieve  so I cant say he gave Mr B incorrect  
information. 
I also dont think its likely  that the brochure wouldve stated that the car would definitely  
travel 100 miles per charge. Its more likely than not that the brochure wouldve  been clear 
that the figure couldnt be guaranteed.
Mr B says the car wasnt fit for purpose but Ive seen that Mr B was able to drive the car for 
over 17000 miles in the two years he had the car. I think  this shows  he was able to use it to 
a reasonable degree.
Ive seen that Mr B had the car serviced  twice  and had the battery checked in April 2018. 
None of these  inspections revealed a fault with the car. The car had no repairs  in the time 
Mr B had it. So Im satisfied that it was of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr B says he wasnt told he had to join a club to use the chargers on the go. I appreciate this 
wouldve been frustrating  but I dont think not being  advised of this wouldve affected  Mr Bs 
decision to proceed  with the car. So I dont think this was a misrepresentation on behalf  of 
the salesman.
Mr B says that the dealerships offer to buy the car from him shows that they knew it wasnt  
fit for purpose.  But I dont think I can reasonably infer that as there could be a number  of 
Ref: DRN95016613reasons for this offer including  that as Mr B had had the car for nearly a year and half this 
was a gesture  of goodwill.  Ive seen Mr B declined  this offer.
So looking  at the evidence Im satisfied I cant reasonably say the cars performance was 
misrepresented to Mr B or that it wasnt fit for purpose. Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9501661