K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is complaining that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV  didnt let him know
about changes  to the administrator and underwriter of his policies.
Background
In 1999 Mr S took out a personal accident plan and a hospital cash  plan with his bank. 
At the time,  the policies  were underwritten by an insurer other than CIGNA,  and 
administered by another, different business.
In 2014 Mr Ss bank  wrote  to him about  the renewal of the policies. They explained  they 
would no longer provide the policies,  but they would continue to be administered by the 
same administrator,  and theyd be rebranded  accordingly .
In 2016 CIGNA wrote  to Mr S on renewal  of both policies to say the administrator of his 
policies had become part of the CIGNA group  in 2013 and the documents relating  to the 
policies would change  again to reflect the change of name. They  also told him the 
underwriter of the policies would change  from the original underwriter to CIGNA.
In 2018 Mr S received a letter from CIGNA to say they could no longer  offer his personal
accident plan as they were withdrawing from the market.
Mr S contacted his bank  but they directed him to CIGNA. Mr S contacted  CIGNA  to say that 
hed taken out the policies  with his bank and hadnt been told about any changes. He said if 
hed been told he would  have contacted them to discuss whether he wanted to continue  with 
the policies.
CIGNA replied to say theyd written to Mr S about  the changes  to both plans at the address
hed provided.  CIGNA  also said theyd  made  a decision to stop providing  the personal
accident plan,  but theyd  given him enough  notice of their intention  to cancel the cover under
the terms of the policy.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said,
in summary, that the renewal letters explaining the changes to the policies were  sent to the
correct address for Mr S, so CIGNA did enough  to let him know about the changes.  She also
said CIGNA  were entitled to make a commercial  decision to withdraw the personal accident
plan from the market, as long as they gave  Mr S enough notice  which they did.
Mr S asked for his complaint to be looked  at again, so it was passed to me for review
and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 24 September 2020. I explained that I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint,  for the reasons  set out below.
CIGNA gave  us copies  of letters  they sent to Mr S about the changes made to both
policies in 2014 and 2016. The letters  explained  that although changes  were being made to
the policy names and providers,  the benefits of the policies remained the same.
Ref: DRN92980482I looked at the address on the letters and I could see the address held for Mr S was slightly
different for each  policy. The correct postal address was shown on the letters about the
personal accident plan. But the letters about  the hospital cash plan showed a different street
address. So, unlike the investigator,  I didnt think all the letters were sent to Mr Ss correct
address.
I looked at CIGNAs  records  of Mr Ss address and I could see that they had shown a
different address for each  policy  since  the policies were taken out. CIGNA told us this
reflected the addresses Mr S gave  at the time the policies  were taken out.
Because of the passage of time it was difficult for me to say why the addresses were 
recorded slightly differently. It thought it may have been that Mr S gave his address 
incorrectly when he took out the hospital  cash plan. But I also thought  CIGNA  could have  
noticed earlier that one of the addresses  they held for Mr S wasnt quite right,  because  
theyd been writing to two different addresses  for the same  customer.
I thought it was likely Mr S received the letters about  the changes  to the personal accident 
plan because they showed  his correct postal address, according to the Royal Mail website 
and the address hed given to us. If he didnt, then I didnt think this was CIGNAs fault 
because they were sent to his address. I thought it was possible he didnt  receive the letters  
about the changes to the hospital cash plan,  because  they werent correctly addressed. But I 
wasnt persuaded he would have acted  any differently if he had. 
Mr S said if hed known about  the changes he would have discussed whether he wanted to
continue with the policies. But none of the benefits  of the policies had changed. So, it was
difficult to see why Mr S would have cancelled his policies, which hed presumably  been
happy with up until then. And Mr S didnt do anything when he received the letters about the
personal accident plan, which were correctly addressed. So, I didnt think he would have
acted any differently if the hospital  cash plan letters had been  sent to the same  address.
Overall, I didnt  think Mr S had suffered any disadvantage because  of the discrepancy in his
address so I didnt intend to uphold this part of his complaint.
CIGNA told Mr S they were cancelling his personal  accident plan because they were no
longer offering this product. They gave him around  eight months notice of this. The terms of
the policy said they could cancel the policy by giving at least 14 days notice.
I explained a business could make  a commercial decision  not to continue to offer a product. 
And I thought this was what CIGNA had done. Mr Ss policy  renewed annually  and there  was 
no guarantee it would continue year on year. And CIGNA gave Mr S enough notice  of the
cancellation to allow him to find an alternative  policy if he wished.  So, I didnt think CIGNA
had treated Mr S unfairly.
I asked CIGNA and Mr S to provide anything else they wished me to consider before I 
issued my final decision.
CIGNA replied to my provisional decision to say they had nothing to add.
Mr S replied  to say, in summary:
Ref: DRN92980483His bank and CIGNA didnt provide information to him at the time the transfers were 
made so they werent transparent. He didnt  find out about the transfer in 2014, but not 
until 2018 when  he visited a branch of his bank and was told to contact CIGNA;
His complaint was also about  his bank as they passed the information to CIGNA;
The cancellation of the personal  accident plan came at the same  time he requested 
information about the transfer in 2018;  and
He took his policies out through a branch and not over the phone as CIGNA  have said.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen anything to lead me to change my provisional decision.  So 
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S said that the policies  were taken out in a branch  of his bank rather than over the phone.  
But that doesnt affect my findings  about  Mr S being  told about the changes  to his policies.
The policies were  always administered  by the same  administrator (which  later became 
CIGNA)  although  they were  initially  branded under Mr Ss banks branding. So its correct  
that Mr Ss complaint  should be about  CIGNA  rather than his bank.  Because  the 
administrator always had Mr Ss information,  I dont think its been passed on 
inappropriately. And Im satisfied the cancellation of Mr Ss personal accident  plan isnt 
related to him making  enquiries about the transfer,  because it affected other customers too, 
not just Mr S.
I do appreciate Mr S says he wasnt told about the changes,  but as Ive explained, letters  
were sent to him about  this on renewal  of his policies. And although I understand he may not 
have received all the letters,  I dont think hes lost out because  the benefits offered by his 
policies hadnt  changed. So I still dont think he would have done anything  differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint,  for the reasons Ive explained 
above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9298048