K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited has handled  their claim for 
items stolen  from their car.
background
Mr and Mrs O have their home insurance  with UKI. Their policy covers theft from an 
unattended motor vehicle  up to £1000.  Mr and Mrs O had items stolen from their car in 
January 2019.  Initially the claim was declined as there was no evidence  the car had been 
broken into so UKI said it had likely been left unlocked and therefore no cover. That decision  
was later overturned.  
In the weeks following  Mr and Mrs O provided information to evidence the items stolen and 
validate their claim. They were informed by UKI they had cover up to £2,500. But that was 
wrong. The amount  provided under the terms of the policy was £1,000.   Mr and Mrs O were 
unhappy to find this out and believed UKI should  honour the incorrect  figure as it had been 
confirmed to them in writing. UKI apologised and offered £100 compensation. But as they 
remained unhappy Mr and Mrs O complained. Alongside the figure there  had been a delay in 
providing a supplier list to them. 
Because of the delays and being  given the wrong information, UKI upheld  the complaint and 
paid a further £250 compensation. But it didnt  agree  to honour the incorrect  claim limit as 
that wasnt what the policy covered. Not happy  with that Mr and Mrs O asked us to look into 
the complaint.  Our investigator concluded UKI had already fairly settled the complaint. 
As Mr and Mrs O didnt  accept the outcome the matter has been  referred  to me for review  
and determination.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Os policy does provide cover for items  stolen from an unattended motor  vehicle. 
The summary of policy  limits (page four) explains this is limited  to £1,000. This limit is 
repeated again  in the section covering how claims are settled (page 21). So Mr and Mrs O 
only have £1,000 of cover for the circumstances of their claim. 
I accept they were provided with incorrect information after they made  their claim and were 
told cover  was to £2,500.  I also accept that information was given in writing.   But that doesnt 
override the contractual limit contained  within the policy  and for which  they have paid 
premiums. 
I have considered whether Mr and Mrs O have relied on the incorrect limit to their detriment.  
I understand they never replaced  any of the stolen items in reliance on the incorrect limit 
before the wrong information was rectified. So they havent lost out financially as a result  of 
being told the incorrect limit. Their  loss is one of expectation and I do understand their 
disappointment. But if things hadnt gone  wrong their position  would be no different  their 
claim would have been subject to the £1,000 limit and this is what they should have been 
told. 
Ref: DRN99498272I accept its disappointing  the error occurred, particularly after having  their claim initially 
declined. But I find no basis on which to fairly ask UKI to increase the contractual  limit of 
£1,000.
Mr and Mrs O also werent sent the list of suppliers and this delayed  the claim by a couple of 
weeks. I understand the claim has been cash settled now, but this delay was another thing 
that went wrong during the course  of this claim settlement. And for the impact that has had 
Mr and Mrs O should  be fairly compensated.  Mr and Mrs O have already been paid a total 
of £350 for what went wrong. Im satisfied  £350  is fair compensation for being given incorrect 
information and for the delay that occurred.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9949827