K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Motor Legal  Protection (MLP) wasnt added  to his motor insurance 
policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 November 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said that complaint handling  wasnt a regulated activity,  so I wouldnt be able 
to look at how UKI dealt  with Mr Ms complaint. Nor would I be able to direct that UKI take 
any actions that only relate to their handling of Mr Ms complaint.
I thought that UKI had acted quickly in adding the MLP to Mr Ms policy, once they became 
aware of the issue. And, because this was caused  by an IT issue  in the way the data had 
been transferred  to UKI from the third party website Mr M used to apply for his policy, I didnt 
think a full and detailed investigation  was required.
But I thought that UKI shouldve dealt with Mr Ms complaint when they received this, not 
asked him to complain  again by another method. And I thought that UKI shouldnt have had 
an old email address on their website  that pointed to an inbox that wasnt monitored.  
I agreed that Mr M was caused some frustration  and inconvenience by what  had happened, 
but I thought the £25 UKI had already paid him was reasonable  compensation. So I didnt 
think they should do anything more. 
Both Mr M and UKI have been  given  the opportunity to comment  on my provisional decision. 
Mr M has said hes disappointed that we cant consider the quality of service hes received 
from UKI when they dealt  with his complaint. Hes said he doesnt accept my provisional 
decision, but hes asked that UKI reissue the cheque for £25 they originally sent him, as he 
never cashed the original.
UKI havent disagreed with my decision  and have arranged to reissue the £25 cheque  to Mr 
M, as requested.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive responded to the points raised by Mr 
M below.
I understand Mr Ms disappointment  that we cant look into the way UKI handled his 
complaint. This is because complaint  handling  is not a regulated  activity.  This shouldve 
been clearly explained to Mr M when his complaint was received, and I can only apologise 
for this not happening. But I still cant consider the complaint handling,  even though its now 
got this far into our process.
Ive noted that Mr M doesnt accept my provisional decision, but Ive havent  seen any further 
evidence that would  alter my view. So my provisional decision remains  unchanged.
Ref: DRN90175572my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about U K Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN90175573copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Motor Legal Protection (MLP) wasnt added to his motor insurance policy with U 
K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy  with UKI through a price comparison website. The offer he 
took included free MLP but this wasnt added to the policy. Mr M has complained that the MLP wasnt 
added to his policy when he took it out. Hes also unhappy that UKI queried his no-claims discount 
(NCD) and that he encountered difficulties  when  contacting UKI and making  a complaint to them. UKI 
have sent Mr M a cheque for £25 compensation in for this.
Our adjudicator found  that UKI hadnt provided the service they should  have. She thought  it was 
reasonable that UKI queried the NCD as thered been a break in cover. She also found that UKI had 
added the MLP as soon as Mr M made them  aware it was missing; but they didnt  conduct a detailed 
investigation into why this happened.
But the adjudicator found that UKI didnt respond to Mr Ms complaints about the difficulties he had 
contacting them. She also found that UKI didnt fully address Mr Ms complaints,  nor did they escalate  
his complaint to a manager when  asked  to do so. Because  of this she recommended that UKI pay Mr 
M an additional £75 for ignoring his complaint emails, for asking him to prove that the UKI complaints 
email address hed used  existed, for not giving Mr M a detailed response to his complaint, and for the 
attitude of the complaint  handler.  She also said that UKI should apologise and give Mr M a detailed 
response to his complaints.
UKI didnt agree with the adjudicator. They felt theyd responded  to the complaint emails  theyd 
received, and didnt think that the additional compensation was fair in the circumstances.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. But I can only consider UKIs regulated activities.  Complaint handling  
is not a regulated activity, so I wont be able to look at how UKI dealt with Mr Ms complaint. Nor will I 
be able to direct that UKI take any actions that only relate to their handling of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M brought  an insurance policy with UKI through a third party  website, which  included free MLP. 
But UKI didnt initially add the MLP to Mr Ms policy. The information Mr M provided UKI was sent to 
them by a third party website Mr M used, and UKI have indicated there was an IT issue that caused 
the problem. I think this is a reasonable explanation  given  the data transfer to UKI, and I dont think a 
detailed investigation  is required  theres no indication  that Mr Ms personal  data has been 
compromised and UKI sorted out the problem  as soon as Mr M made them aware. I wouldnt expect  
them to do anything more.
When Mr M provided UKI with his proof of NCD,  this showed he hadnt had continuous  insurance 
cover. I agree with the adjudicator that it was reasonable for UKI to query  this  Mr M couldve had 
cover with another insurer in the gap between the proof of NCD he provided and the start of the UKI 
policy; and his NCD  may have been  affected by any insurance he had in this gap. So its not 
unreasonable for UKI to query this to make sure that Mr Ms insurance cover was correct, and that 
hed been charged the correct premium for the cover he had.
Ref: DRN90175574When Mr M complained to UKI about  the missing  MLP, this was sent with his proof of NCD to UKIs 
document inbox. UKI told Mr M that they couldnt accept a complaint  through this inbox and he would 
need to call them or use the webchat facility.  I can see that this would be frustrating for Mr M and I 
would expect any business  to deal with a complaint however received.  So UKI shouldve dealt with Mr 
Ms complaint and not asked  him to complain  again by another method.
Mr M also complained to UKI to an email address hed found  on their website. But this was an old 
address and the email inbox wasnt  monitored, so UKI didnt receive  this complaint.  I can also see 
why this was frustrating for Mr M and I wouldve expected UKI to have removed this email address 
from their website  as soon  as they stopped using it. But Mr M had been told that he would need to 
complain by phone or by webchat, so UKI werent expecting to receive  an email from him.
Because of this I agree that Mr M was caused some inconvenience and frustration by both the 
missing MLP and the difficulties he had contacting UKI to complain about this. But, as the MLP was 
sorted quickly and UKI responded to Mr Ms compliant,  I think the £25 theyve already paid him is 
reasonable for the inconvenience and frustration caused. So I wont be asking  them to do anything 
more.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont intend to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Ref: DRN9017557