K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled his claim 
under his motor  policy.
background
Mr P was involved  in an accident  on 2 May 2018  where unfortunately the other driver failed 
to stop. Mr P made  a claim to Admiral  for the damage to his van. He then complained that 
Admiral didnt tell him it thought his van was a total loss. Then Mr P was able to find a 
garage, which could repair it. But he felt Admiral  took too long to sort out the repair  to his 
van. It also failed  to provide him with a hire van and generally failed to keep him updated.
Admiral agreed it failed to keep him dated or to respond to his calls and emails in a timely 
manner. It paid him a total of £75 compensation.
Mr P remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator thought  Admiral  
had compensated  Mr R adequately for its failings.  He also thought  otherwise that Admiral 
had handled  his claim reasonably having regard to the terms of the policy.
Mr P disagreed so his complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Theres always an inconvenience when making  a claim to an insurer. Here,  this was Mr Ps 
work van which given  it was off the road being  repaired gave rise to further inconvenience. 
There was even more  inconvenience due to the fact that the driver that damaged his van 
didnt even bother to stop so as to ensure Mr P could have made  a claim on that drivers 
policy to include possibly  being provided  with a hire van from them.  So Mr P undoubtedly 
suffered from both distress and inconvenience  in trying to sort all this out. 
However my role is simply to assess what Admiral did wrong as his insurers  and if so what  
attempts did it achieve in putting  things  right.
First, Ill deal with Admirals  failure to tell Mr P that it had decided  his van was a total loss. 
Admiral did try to talk to Mr P twice about this but couldnt get through. Sadly  then its adviser 
didnt mention anything about  this when she talked with him on 18 May 2018, which was 
wrong. However, Admiral  agreed its customer service fell short here,  which I consider is 
reasonable.
From the engineers  report  on the cost of repairing Mr Ps van, it wasnt unreasonable  for it 
to conclude under the terms of the policy that it could be considered a total loss. 
Mr P questioned this and consequently I consider it was fair for Admiral  to agree to consider 
a second assessment, provided Mr P provided it to Admiral. Mr P did and Admiral accepted 
it thereby agreeing to fund the cost of the repair to Mr Ps van. But as this wasnt  one of 
Admirals approved repairers,  its duty would only be to fund the cost of the repairs  as 
agreed. Any delays by this repairer  in getting its estimate to Admiral and/or undertaking the 
Ref: DRN99133052repairs could not be the fault of Admiral. Admiral  confirmed it wouldnt be instructing an 
independent assessor to look at his van on 31 May. But it didnt receive the estimate  from Mr 
Ps repairers  until 3 July, which  it authorised  on 6 July. Admiral cant  be responsible for that 
delay, as it couldnt do anything until it received the estimate.
Mr Ps policy  only entitled  him to a courtesy  car if his van was being repaired  by one of 
Admirals approved repairers.  As Mr Ps van wasnt being repaired at such  an approved 
repairer, it means he then wasnt entitled  to such a courtesy car. So I cant  say consequently 
that Admiral did anything wrong  in not supplying him with one. 
Its clear to me from the evidence of Admirals  file and indeed its final response letter, it 
agreed its service to Mr P nonetheless fell short.  It didnt tell him it considered his van a total 
loss. It didnt email him when it promised it would do so with information that Mr P required 
either. Its paid Mr P a total of £75 compensation for this and apologised. 
Whilst I do appreciate Mr P has been  grossly inconvenienced by the delay in getting his van 
back on the road, not all of that delay was Admirals fault, most of the delay waiting for 
Admiral to be given the estimate to approve in order to get the repairs  started. Therefore, I 
consider Admirals payment of compensation was fair in those circumstances. 
my final decision
So for this reasons, its my final decision that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9913305