K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy at the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC when he wanted to 
withdraw cash from a branch.
background
On the Friday evening before a bank  holiday  weekend in May 2019  Mr R phoned Lloyds to 
enquire about withdrawing  cash  from a particular branch as he intended to purchase a car. 
The next morning  (Saturday) Mr R visited that branch to withdraw the money (£5,500) and in 
view of the amount  he was asked for photographic identification (ID). Mr R said hed made 
similar withdrawals  before without ID and hadnt been told hed need  to bring this when he 
phoned. The most senior available  staff member was consulted who confirmed the 
transaction couldnt proceed without ID. After  some discussion Mr R produced his driving 
licence, but that wasnt  sufficient to identify him as the address on the licence didnt  match 
Lloyds records. Mr R was finally permitted to make the withdrawal by successfully 
answering some security questions and entering  his PIN. Mr R was unhappy it had taken 
half an hour to access his own money and didnt feel hed been  dealt with sympathetically. 
He subsequently complained about  the way his complaint had been handled and a call with 
one of Lloyds  complaint  handling staff.
Lloyds agreed  Mr R should have been told hed need to bring ID with him when he called, so 
they apologised and paid £25. But they didnt uphold his complaints about  the way he was 
dealt with in branch or the complaint call. Mr R remained  unhappy, so he complained to this 
service. To support his complaint he submitted an audio recording hed made of his visit to 
the branch. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and listened to Mr Rs recording,  as well 
as the call recordings supplied by Lloyds. While he understood  Mr R was unhappy  with his 
experience in the branch,  he thought overall  Lloyds staff had tried to help Mr R while 
following their cash withdrawal procedures.  As Mr R had been able to complete the 
transaction during his visit, he felt the compensation offered was about right to reflect  the 
poor service. And while he thought the call with the complaint  handler  could have been dealt 
with slightly better, he didnt think Lloyds needed  to pay more  compensation for that. 
Mr R still thinks  hes been treated unfairly  so hes asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint..  Its clear Mr R is very upset about his 
experience and feels hes been treated unfairly  and differently from other  customers. But 
having looked into it carefully and listened to Mr Rs recording of his visit and the calls with 
Lloyds, I dont think Lloyds needs  to do more.  Let me explain why.
initial phone call
Theres no dispute that when Mr R called to let Lloyds know he wished to withdraw cash  
from the branch  he should have been told hed need  photo  ID, although  the call handler  did 
email the branch to advise them of the visit. So Lloyds  made  a mistake here. But it seems to 
Ref: DRN90853542me even  Mr R had been told to bring  ID, the branch staff would  still have had to identify him 
another way as his driving licence  didnt show the right address.
So Ill look at his experience in branch, and the subsequent customer  service  he received. 
visit to branch
I take Mr Rs point  that hes entitled to withdraw his own money,  and hed given notice of his 
intention by phoning Lloyds the evening before. But customers rightly expect banks to keep 
their accounts safe from unauthorised access. It wouldnt be acceptable  if money could be 
withdrawn from an account with no checks being  made. So staff have to follow identification  
procedures to ensure  a transaction  is being carried out by the account  holder. Such  
procedures are likely to be tighter the larger the transaction, and if it appears out of character 
for the account.  Mr R wished to withdraw a significant amount of money in cash, almost the 
whole account  balance, and this appeared unusual  for the running of his account. So I dont 
think it was unfair of Lloyds to initially  refuse  the transaction when Mr R didnt provide the 
required photo ID. In the recording Mr R made  I can hear the senior  member  of staff 
explaining the transaction is not going to happen as the system wont let her proceed  
without entering details of the ID shes seen. This is consistent with Lloyds internal cash and 
counter procedure for withdrawals over a certain amount which requires  a passport or 
driving licence  number to be input, and the system verifies the ID to ensure  the document  is 
genuine. 
I dont think its necessary to explore whether Mr R had previously  made large cash 
withdrawals without ID, as Im satisfied the correct procedure requires a customer  to be 
properly identified before  a withdrawal  can take place. Mr R said it would be inconvenient to 
return home to collect ID, so asked if he should drive to another  local branch, but that 
wouldnt help unless  the staff there knew him. Mr R then described a member  of staff whod 
served him on a previous  occasion, without asking for ID. From the description the branch 
staff said it sounded  like J and asked  if Mr R knew him. This question appears to have 
confused Mr R as he wasnt  aware  of Js name  and didnt know him personally. But as our 
investigator explained, this was probably the advisor  establishing if J might  be able to 
confirm Mr Rs identity and enable  the transaction to proceed.  Although Mr R perceived  this 
exchange as disrespectful,  I dont believe thats  the way it was intended. 
After twenty minutes  or so Mr R produced his driving  licence although  this didnt show his 
current address. I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds to refuse this as valid ID if the 
address didnt match their records. But the transaction was completed  as Lloyds asked Mr R 
some security questions and he successfully entered his PIN. So after being  in the branch 
for about half an hour he was able to withdraw his cash. I understand Mr R felt the questions 
were intrusive and wasnt comfortable  answering them at the counter. But this was 
overcome by writing his answers  rather than saying them aloud. As his photo  ID with the 
wrong address  wasnt acceptable to Lloyds then the security questions  appear to be the only 
way the withdrawal could have been completed. 
Mr R has described his experience in the branch as feeling like an inquisition and that the 
staff were rude and condescending and tried to humiliate and belittle him. Its always hard to 
make a finding on an interaction at which you werent present. Its understandable if both 
Mr R and the branch  staff found the situation stressful  and difficult at times. Although the 
recording isnt totally clear, and it was unauthorised as Mr R didnt tell Lloyds staff he was 
recording them, I can hear the tone as well as most of the dialogue,  and overall I think both 
parties remained polite  and professional. I appreciate Mr R took exception to being told to 
Ref: DRN90853543calm down  and lower  his voice. But I think  the staff were doing their best to assist  Mr R 
within the constraints  of the procedures theyre  obliged to follow.
I understand why Mr R was annoyed the transaction didnt happen smoothly given he took 
the precaution  of ringing Lloyds beforehand. He should have been  advised that for a 
withdrawal of that sum hed be asked to produce a form of photo identification. But even if 
hed been told of this requirement,  hed still have had the same issue  with his license not 
being acceptable with the wrong address. The withdrawal took a bit longer than Mr R 
expected and this was no doubt frustrating. But branch staff have to balance  providing good 
service to their customers with safeguarding accounts from fraud, and I dont think  half an 
hour is an unreasonable amount of time in the circumstances.  
post branch visit customer service
Before he left the branch Mr R said he intended logging a complaint about the way hed 
been treated.  On Tuesday, the next working day, Mr R called Lloyds customer services and 
spoke to the complaint handler  L. Having  reviewed the recording he made he wanted to 
add some points to his complaint. But L said she couldnt, as it had already been  passed to 
the branch manager to deal with. Mr R was concerned the manager would be biased 
towards his staff. Mr R took L through his experience in the branch, describing what had 
happened at various points in the recording and telling her what to write  down. It must  have 
been quite hard for L to follow as she hadnt  been  present or listened to the recording.  Mr R 
said he finds phone calls difficult and was attempting  to slow his speech, as hes aware he 
naturally speaks quickly. During this call Mr R became  unhappy with L as he felt she 
interrupted him and wasnt sympathetic. But she obtained Mr Rs consent to note the mental  
health conditions  he disclosed on Lloyds  systems,  and logged his concerns  about her as a 
separate complaint. The call ended at Mr Rs request as hed prefer  to deal with someone 
else. Ive no doubt  it was an uncomfortable  experience from both sides,  but I couldnt say the 
call was badly handled. 
Mr R had a number of subsequent conversations with different members  of Lloyds staff, 
reiterating the various points of his complaint and to request copies of the calls under subject 
access rights. He was unhappy about how those calls were  handled, once  he listened to the 
recordings. Im conscious the perception of an interaction is very subjective to the parties 
involved. From an impartial standpoint having listened to the calls, I didnt hear anyone was 
impolite to Mr R and I dont believe there was any intention  to upset him. There was some 
confusion along  the way about whether his complaint was resolved or still open  and the 
amount of compensation offered and paid. But overall I think the staff were trying  to assist 
Mr R and balance letting  him express  himself with keeping the calls on track and explaining 
their procedures.
The branch  managers  follow  up call to Mr R about his experience in the branch wasnt  
recorded. The manager didnt uphold the complaint as the staff were following procedure. 
Apparently during the conversation Mr R explained  how stressful hes found the situation 
and the impact on his mental health, mentioning his conditions and the medication he takes.  
The manager appears to have asked  if Mr R needs help and if he should  alert emergency 
services. Mr R interpreted  this as an accusation of him being a criminal. As I cant listen to 
the call its hard to assess how it was handled, but on balance  I think its likely the manager 
was genuinely  concerned  about Mr R as such action isnt taken lightly. Its not unusual for 
customer facing staff to be trained to instigate  a welfare check (which in my experience are 
carried out by the police) if they are concerned  for someones safety or wellbeing, 
particularly if that person  has disclosed  certain vulnerabilities. So I dont think  acting  on 
Ref: DRN90853544genuine welfare concerns was unreasonable, although Im sorry for any distress caused to 
Mr R. 
complaint handling
As the complaint about Mr Rs branch experience had been  handed off to the branch 
manager to resolve  separately from the call handling  issue,  there  was some confusion  about 
whether the complaint was resolved or not. And it seems originally Lloyds was going  to offer 
£50 compensation  which  was reduced to £25 once the call recording with L had been 
reviewed. Although it might be a standard paragraph I can understand why Mr R was upset 
by the warning his account could be closed for threatening or aggressive behaviour as that 
doesnt appear relevant in this case.
summary
Lloyds made  an error in the initial phone call, which  theyve admitted to and paid 
compensation for. I cant say the service in the branch or some  of the phone calls were  
handled perfectly. But Mr R experienced no financial loss and was able to withdraw the cash 
he wanted in a reasonable time. And even if the call had been handled correctly and hed 
been told to bring  ID it wouldnt have been acceptable to Lloyds, so hed have been in the 
same position. I appreciate Mr R thinks Lloyds  has treated him unfairly or differently to other 
customers, but Ive seen  no evidence of that. So taking everything into account while I 
understand how strongly Mr R feels I dont  think hes been  sufficiently inconvenienced to ask 
Lloyds to do more  than the £25 its already paid. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9085354