complaint
Mr F has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions, which  he said 
he didnt make. I issued  a provisional decision on 28th April 2021.  Mr F responded with 
further submissions which  I have considered. The provisional decision forms the basis  
of my final decision.
background
Mr F is disputing multiple payments to a bar, totalling approximately £2,550.  The 
payments were made  with his debit card on 28 February 2019 to 1 March 2019 between
23.30 and 1.40.
Mr F said he went abroad with friends  for a stag party. The group visited a bar where he 
used his debit  card to pay for a couple of drinks which  cost about £20. He said he returned  
to the apartment  after finishing his drink.  The next morning, he noticed  his wallet was 
missing. He said he called HSBC to report his card as stolen.
HSBC told him his card had been used to make several payments in the same  bar. Mr F 
said he didnt make the payments. He was also told that the first payment was £404.27  
and not £20. He said the bar staff must have altered the amount on the card terminal.
Mr F raised  a fraud complaint with HSBC and asked for a refund of the 
disputed transactions.
HSBC investigated  his complaint but decided not to refund him. It said there  was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought  Mr F had authorised the payments 
because:
His card and PIN were  used for each  payment
he was in the bar and admits making  a payment at 23.31, which was declined
HSBC sent a text message to his phone asking him to confirm if   
the declined payment  was genuine  and he replied  yes at 23.32
he made a successful payment at 23.35 for the same amount
there were no balance checks or cash withdrawals, which are more 
typical with fraudulent activity
there was no point of compromise for the PIN.
Mr F didnt  agree with HSBCs decision, so he asked this service  to investigate.
He told our investigator that the barmaid showed him the price for the drinks  on the card 
terminal. He said it was a low figure. She took his card and then passed the machine back  
with his card so that he could enter  his PIN. He said he now thinks the barmaid changed the 
amount, but he didnt  double check the figure as he doesnt normally  do this. He said he 
trusts the staff to input the correct amount. He believes the barmaid and another  staff 
member watched him enter his PIN while he was chatting to one of his friends  at the bar and 
that his wallet must  have  been stolen at this point.
Mr F admitted hed received a text message  from HSBC but believed  it was in relation to 
another payment, which hed made earlier that day at the airport. Thats why he confirmed 
it was genuine.  He said he didnt notice the reference to the payment  in the bar.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and he partially upheld it. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude  that the payments had been made fraudulently  and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Mr F. However, he considered  that HSBCs 
Ref: DRN9188489systems shouldve been triggered by two declined transactions for over £500.  And he said 
it shouldve detected that the payments were out of character for Mr Fs account and sent 
another text message. He said that, had it done  so, Mr F couldve checked  the amounts  
and stopped the payments. He recommended  that HSBC refund the last five transactions.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators  view.  It said it sent a text message to Mr F and so 
its systems were working and had flagged two payments which  it had stopped. However, 
Mr F had confirmed  the first payment  as genuine. And it said that he must  also accept 
responsibility for not checking how much he was spending.
It then asked for an ombudsmans decision.
A provisional  decision was issued by an ombudsman from this service  in response. Mr F 
made further submissions  in relation  to that decision. In summary,  he re-iterated that he had 
not made the transactions.  He also relied on evidence he had found on websites which 
showed what he described as similar type of scams.
He said he had been a considerable amount of stress by the situation he had found  himself 
in.
Mr Fs case  then came  to me. I issued my provisional decision which  I have already explained 
to Mr F, reflects the previous decision he has received. Mr F has expressed his concern that 
the matter is now in the hands of another ombudsman and that he feels  unfairly treated as a 
result. He also doesnt understand  how I can disagree with our investigator when we work for 
the same  service.  He  also then made  further  submissions in response to my provisional 
decision and I have  now considered these too.
I reassured Mr F that I had conducted an independent review  of his complaint and have 
carefully considered  his submissions. Unfortunately, they didnt change my mind.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr F and HSBC have read the investigators  
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr F that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Im afraid I dont have  good news for Mr F. Having reviewed the evidence,  Ive also 
concluded that Mr F authorised the transactions.  However, unlike our investigator,  I dont 
consider that HSBCs systems shouldve been triggered by the later payments. Therefore, I 
wont be asking it to refund any payments. Ill explain my reasons below.
In short,  HSBC is required to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017).
Mr F says he didnt  make the disputed  payments  and is seeking a refund. So, my 
primary concern is to come  to a view about whether I think  he authorised the payments.
Ref: DRN9188489Having reviewed the banks reports, Im satisfied that Mr Fs genuine card and PIN were  
used in order for the disputed payments to take place. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr F 
consented to the payments being made.
Mr F admits he made the first successful payment at 23.35 but he disputes  the amount. He 
said it shouldve been about £20 but £404.27 was debited  from his account. He believes the 
barmaid altered the amount. However,  under the relevant  regulations, he is treated as 
having consented to the payment  when he entered his card and PIN into the card terminal,  
even if he disputes  the amount.
Also, hed confirmed  that the earlier attempted payment for £404.27 was genuine, after 
receiving a text message  from HSBC. I appreciate he said he believed  that the text 
message referred  to a payment at the airport. And its correct that the airport  transaction 
was included in the message. However,  the text message begins by asking  him if the 
payment for £404.27 to the bar, which is named,  was genuine.  He couldnt have missed 
that transaction, if he noticed the airport transaction. So, I think he saw the bar payment 
and the amount and still confirmed it as genuine.
I can only conclude, therefore,  that Mr F authorised the first disputed payment. This means  
that HSBC is not obliged  to refund it.
I also think its reasonable for HSBC to conclude that he authorised  the subsequent 
disputed payments because:
Mr F confirmed he was in the bar when he replied to the text message.
The subsequent  payments were  made  between  23.55 and 01.37.  Mr F said he 
left the bar sometime between 23.45  and midnight. He believes his wallet was 
stolen after hed bought the drinks, so sometime between 23.35  and 23.55.  Mr F 
said it couldve happened when he was at the bar or walking back  to his seat. He
Ref: DRN9188489also said he might  have  left his wallet on the table.  Im afraid Im not convinced  
there was an opportunity  for someone  to steal his wallet  without him or his friends 
noticing. And I think its odd that neither he nor his friends noticed that his wallet 
was still on the table.
There were  no balance  enquiries, which suggests that the person using the card 
knew there was enough  money in the account.
The person  with the card used it in the bar. Its unusual for a fraudster  to use the 
card in the same venue, instead  of trying to withdraw as much  cash as possible, 
as quickly as possible. Theres very little benefit to a fraudster  in using the card 
in a bar.
A Google search shows that the bar is a night  club offering adult entertainment. The 
subsequent disputed payments were all for the same amount - £346.85. Based on our 
experience of other similar cases, this spending  pattern  is consistent  with repeated 
purchases of the same  services. Again, I dont consider that a fraudster would use a stolen 
debit card for adult  entertainment.
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr F authorised  the 
disputed payments and HSBC  is not obliged to refund  them.
Ive considered whether HSBC couldve done more to protect Mr Fs account.
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, in exceptional cases,  I 
may ask whether  the bank  shouldve  identified any unusual or out of character transactions 
 that could involve fraud  or financial abuse. There is industry  guidance on this in the BSI 
Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud  or 
financial abuse. HSBC  has not signed up to the Code, but it remains persuasive evidence  of 
what banks can do to protect customers, especially  vulnerable customers.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Having  done  so, I think HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably  
in allowing the payments  to leave Mr Fs account because:
hed confirmed he was in the bar and was content to authorise a payment for
£404.27 when  he replied to the text message.
Except for the first payment, the disputed payments were for the same amount 
and the spending pattern was consistent with paying for goods and adult 
entertainment.
There were  five payments over 1 hour 45 minutes, not rapid  spending or 
multiple transactions in quick succession.
Theres no evidence of fraud or that Mr F was vulnerable at the time the 
payments were made.
I understand why the investigator  thought the disputed payments were out of character  for 
his account. But that could be said for any trip abroad or occasional  expensive night out. In 
this case, HSBCs systems did detect the first attempt to pay £404.27 and Mr F confirmed
Ref: DRN9188489K820x#14it was a genuine payment. As far as HSBC  was concerned, Mr F was in the bar and it 
had no reason to suspect  that the subsequent  payments  were  fraudulent.  I note there 
were two declined  transactions  for over £500.  Its possible  there was a financial limit on 
individual transactions. HSBC said it cant divulge why those payments were declined but 
said the fact they were  declined shows that their system was working.
And having decided that he authorised the payments, I dont think any further text 
messages wouldve changed what happened, given that hed already  confirmed  
the payment for £404.27.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Mr F authorised the disputed  
payments. He might not have realised how much  he was spending and probably now 
regrets what happened. But Im afraid he must  also accept responsibility for his 
actions. In these  circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for HSBC to refuse a 
refund.
Finally, Ive considered  Mr Fs comments  around  other cases of what he calls scams 
which have happened, he says, in similar circumstances. Every case is considered  on its 
own merits by this service. I dont know the details of the other  cases which  Mr F has 
mentioned  and in any event, Im sorry to say they wouldnt have had an impact  on the 
consideration of Mr Fs particular case.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2021.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9188489