K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mrs C applied for a credit  card in 1995, and bought a regular premium PPI policy at or in the 
years following the opening of her credit card account. I cant  say exactly how much  this 
policy cost Mrs C but from what  we know of the policies  that Lloyds sold at the time I think it 
wouldnt have cost more  than 79p per every  £100  of the outstanding  monthly  balance  on her 
credit card. 
This policy covered  Mrs C in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld because  he didnt think 
there was enough  information to show Lloyds had mis-sold the policy.
Mrs C disagreed. She says she didnt  know the policy  was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mrs C says she filled in a leaflet when she applied for her credit card and was sold the policy 
at the same  time. And Lloyds havent  been  able to provide us with any of the documents 
from the time of the sale or confirm how the policy was sold.  So I dont know exactly what  
was discussed  about PPI or how it was presented. 
But from what I know about all the different  ways  Lloyds sold PPI during the period Mrs C 
was sold the policy, I think its likely  that it wouldve made Mrs C aware that PPI was optional  
and I think Mrs C wouldve had PPI added  to her account because she chose  to take it. I 
understand Mrs C might  not remember this, but Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt 
given a choice  or that she didnt agree to buy it.
To be fair to Mrs C I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised  sale. What this 
means is that Lloyds  not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mrs C could  make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had 
to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable  to her needs and 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN95631232I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But from what  I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs C 
for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim. 
Mrs C says she wouldve been entitled  to a generous level of sick pay but had no other 
means of making her  credit card payments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any work benefits  and for potentially longer covering her credit  card 
payments for up to 12 months if she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or 
lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs C in her 
circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to her at the time and if 
she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve  cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mrs C information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve.  
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Mrs C has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
So it follows  that I dont  think Lloyds did anything wrong when it sold PPI to Mrs C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9563123