K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail  Group)  didnt make 
him aware  that a credit search would be carried out when  he applied  for store  credit.
background
Mr B applied for credit on a buy now, pay later basis in order  to purchase goods  from a retail 
store. But his application was declined. Mr B is unhappy that a credit search was completed. 
He thought it was going  to be a soft search. He says it wasnt made clear to him during the 
application process that it would appear  on his credit file.
Home Retail  Group said Mr B was given  information  prior to the application  which explained 
that a credit  search  would  be carried out. It said Mr B had agreed to the credit  search  as hed 
signed the application. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us but Home Retail Group didnt think  we could  look at it. It 
said because Mr Bs application for credit wasnt successful, he wasnt an eligible 
complainant.
Our investigator considered whether we could look at the complaint and decided we could. 
He said Mr B was a potential customer of Home Retail Group  and was therefore, an eligible 
complainant under the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (Dispute Resolution Rule 
2.7.6(2)). Home Retail Group  accepted  the investigators opinion and agreed to this service 
considering the complaint.
The investigator then looked at the merits of Mr Bs complaint. He said he felt                              
Home Retail  Group had made it clear that a credit search would be carried  out. He was 
satisfied Mr B wouldve  continued with the application  in the absence of knowing whether it 
was going to be approved  or declined  -  because he intended to use credit to purchase 
goods.
Mr B disagreed. He said:
had he known he wasnt  going  to be approved for credit, he wouldnt have tried to 
purchase the goods, as they werent for him.
he tried applying online but wasnt given a clear  outcome, and was told to visit the 
store to complete the application. 
if hed failed online, he wouldnt have bothered visiting the store.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs further  points but his opinion remained the same.  
He acknowledged  that it wouldve been  frustrating for Mr B to be declined  credit when the 
goods werent for his benefit. But he couldnt hold Home Retail Group responsible  for that.
Because Mr B disagreed,  the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90119292Mr B has raised a few concerns regarding his experience of applying for credit, but the crux 
of his complaint  is that he says he didnt realise  a credit search was going  to be carried out. 
He says Home Retail Group  didnt  make this clear  to him. And its this Ill focus on. 
Mr B says he tried to make an application for credit online but was told to visit a store  to 
complete it. He said he wouldnt have travelled to the store  if hed known his application was 
likely to be unsuccessful. 
So I need to consider what information Mr B was provided with prior to making his 
application for credit. Ive looked at the information  he was provided  with at the time of 
applying in store. It says:
When you apply, well search  your record at a credit  reference agency or agencies  [] 
Credit scoring methods  may be used  to assess this application and verify your identity.
It goes on to say:
 Even if your application  goes no further, the credit reference agencies  will add details of 
this search and your application to your record.
This information was within the credit application. And I can see that Mr B has signed the 
application to confirm he agreed  to be bound by the terms  of the credit agreement. Hes also 
provided a separate signature  to acknowledge that the About your agreement section of 
the credit  application  had been read to him. 
So overall, Im satisfied Home Retail Group made Mr B aware that a credit search was going  
to be completed,  and that it would be recorded  on his file, regardless of whether the 
application was approved  or declined. And it was ultimately Mr Bs decision to proceed  with 
the application. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr B told Home  Retail Group that he needed reasonable 
adjustments when  making the application.  So Im satisfied its treated him fairly. I know  itll 
disappoint Mr B but Im not persuaded that Home Retail  Group has done anything wrong, 
and so I wont be asking  it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9011929