K820x#14complaint
Miss Ns complaint is about the compensation offered by The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies on a number of 
personal loans.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 19 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I thought  
the compensation offered  to Miss N by RBS was fair.
RBS responded  to my provisional decision saying  it agreed with it and had no further  
comments to make.
Miss N responded  saying  that she hadnt been  reassured by my provisional decision that the 
way RBS had calculated the total redress due to her met with the regulators guidelines. 
Miss N gave two specific examples of where she thought that RBS had understated the 
amount of compensation that she was due. Both of these examples related to the amount of 
the residual PPI refund which RBS has calculated was due to her.
In the first example, relating to Loan  Eight  in the chain, Miss N says that she still thinks shes 
due a much  higher amount in residual compensation than the £71.80  shown on the 
consolidated output sheet which RBS has provided. And in the second  example, relating to 
Loan Five in the chain, she thinks shes due a much higher amount than the £19.56 shown 
on the sheet.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  what Miss N has said in explaining why she still thinks that she is 
due higher amounts in compensation in relation to these two examples  than that shown in 
the consolidated output sheet  which RBS has previously provided. 
Having done so, I think its likely that the views  shes expressed  largely  arise  from a 
misunderstanding about how compensation is calculated in situations, like this, where  a 
number of linked loans are involved.  Ill now explain why I think this is the case.
I can see on the RBS output sheet that the figure  of £71.80 which  Miss N has highlighted 
represents the amount of compensation shes due on Loan  Eight  in respect  of the residual 
PPI carried forward. I can also see from this sheet  that only five repayments were made on 
this three  year loan before it was refinanced  by Loan Nine.  
This means  that a significant  proportion  of the residual PPI that Miss N was due to be 
compensated for was carried forward into Loan  Nine. Some of this residual compensation 
will therefore be included in the figure  of £550.79 shown as compensation for overpayment  
of residual PPI for this later loan. But, once again, Loan Nine was refinanced by loan ten 
Ref: DRN93607562before it reached  its full term.  So this means  that some of this residual PPI will also have  
been carried forward to this final loan in the chain, where the remaining compensation due 
on it has been paid.
The same logic applies to the compensation of £19.56 highlighted  by Miss N and shown  on 
the RBS output  sheet  as residual PPI against Loan  Five. Here, only four repayments were  
made on this two year loan before  it was re-financed. So, once  again,  a significant proportion  
of the residual compensation due has been  carried forward  into later loans where the 
redress has been given.
Having carefully considered all the points which Miss N has made in response to my 
provisional decision, these havent  changed  my mind about this complaint. I still think that 
the way in which RBS has calculated the PPI compensation which it has paid to Miss N is 
fair. So I dont think RBS needs to do anything further in relation to Miss Ns complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I think 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has paid Miss N fair compensation and I dont direct it to do 
anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93607563copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss Ns complaint is about the compensation offered by The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) for 
the mis-sale  of payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies on a number of personal loans.
background
The complaint concerns  the PPI policies  attached to the following ten loans that Miss N took out with 
RBS:
Loan  ending  3079 (loan 1)
Loan  ending  0632 (loan 2)
Loan  ending  9255 (loan 3)
Loan  ending  3519 (loan 4)
Loan  ending  9065 (loan 5)
Loan  ending  8441 (loan 6)
Loan  ending  3434 (loan 7)
Loan  ending  5007 (loan 8)
Loan  ending  1938 (loan 9)
Loan  ending  0441 (loan 10)
RBS accepted that the PPI policies attached to these loans had been mis-sold  by it. But it had gaps in 
the information available about some of these loans and the related PPI policies. Initially, it only made 
offers to compensate Miss N for the mis-sale  of PPI on loans 5 to 10. This was because it couldnt  
find any records to show that PPI had been sold on the earlier  loans 1 to 4. Compensation for PPI 
mis-sold on loans 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 (totalling £6,094.56) was paid to Miss N in January 2016. 
Compensation in relation to the PPI sold with loan 8 was withheld at that time as Miss N didnt confirm  
her acceptance of this offer.
Following further investigation by RBS, it accepted  that it had also sold PPI on loans 1 to 4. And in 
September 2016 it paid compensation  to Miss N in relation to these four loans (totalling £2,076.05). At 
the same time RBS paid Miss N compensation of £392.80 in relation to loan 8. It also made  a top up 
compensation payment  of £265.45 in respect of loan 5 to reflect the fact that it now recognised that 
Miss N would have made payments on this loan that related to outstanding PPI balances carried  over 
from previous loans. Because of the limited information RBS had available about the original terms of 
these loans, it made certain assumptions in calculating  these  compensation payments. But it said that 
it thought that these  assumptions were likely  to be in Miss Ns favour.
Miss N wasnt  satisfied that RBS had adequately demonstrated that the compensation  shed been 
paid for the mis-sale of PPI on her loans  had been calculated correctly. So shes referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that the total compensation paid to Miss N in relation to the mis-sale  of PPI 
on her ten loans was fair. Miss N wasnt happy with the adjudicators  view, so the case  has been 
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As RBS has offered Miss N compensation  for the sale of the PPI policies,  Im not looking at how any 
of the policies came to be sold to her. Im only looking at whether RBS has offered Miss N fair 
compensation.
Ref: DRN93607564Ive first looked at whether RBS has based its compensation calculations on the best information  now 
available about the terms of the ten loans in question and the PPI premiums attached to these loans. 
Miss N had previously raised concerns about the veracity of this information notably in relation to loan 
1. And, as previously  noted,  RBS has itself acknowledged that it needed to make certain  assumptions 
about some  of these loans and PPI premiums to fill gaps in the available information. 
So I asked Miss N to tell me about any instances where  she thought that RBS had used incorrect 
information about these  loans or the PPI attached to them and provide  copies of the records she was 
relying on which showed  better information was available. Miss N responded confirming that there 
had been inaccuracies in some of the information used by RBS, referring  to a number of previous 
written communications  shed had with both RBS and this service  about  these.
Ive carefully considered the information that both RBS and Miss N has provided about  these loans, 
including the correspondence referred to by Miss N in response to our latest request to her. But 
having done  so, I have only identified  one specific instance where  I think  there is compelling  evidence 
to show  that better  information  is now available  than that used by RBS as a basis for calculating the 
total compensation payable to Miss N. This relates to loan 8, where RBSs compensation  calculations 
didnt take account  of the fact that Miss N received a partial refund of the PPI premium charged to this 
loan. This refund was given  when the loan was re-financed before the end of its term by loan 9. 
RBS has since acknowledged this error. But it said it wouldnt change  its compensation  calculations to 
take account of this error, as this would reduce  the adjusted total compensation  figure below that 
which had already  been  offered and paid to Miss N. And having  thought carefully about what RBS has 
said, I agree that this would be the effect  of making such a change  to its original calculations.  So I 
dont think Miss N has lost out because of this error.
RBS has accepted  that it mis-sold  the PPI policies attached to all ten loans. So it needed  to refund 
that proportion of any repayments (both capital and interest) Miss N made  which related to the PPI 
premium added to the loan at its commencement. And where a loan had, in part, been used  to re-
finance a previous loan, it also needed to refund that proportion of any repayments Miss N made on 
that loan which related to the unpaid  element of PPI premiums brought  forward from a previous loan 
or loans. Finally, for loan 10, it needed to refund the extra  Miss N paid because  of PPI when she 
repaid her loan early.
Having reviewed  the information provided by RBS, Im satisfied that it has offered fair compensation 
to Miss N. I havent seen anything which  makes  me think that RBS has understated  the amount which 
Miss N has paid to it for the PPI policies  it mis-sold  to her. As previously mentioned, RBS didnt 
include loans 1 to 4 in its original offer of compensation. This meant that the compensation it initially  
offered on loan 5 didnt include the proportion of her loan 5 repayments which related  to PPI carried 
over from previous loans. But RBS has since made a top up payment of £265.45 to Miss N on loan 
5 and I think  this is fair.
RBS also needed to compensate Miss N for being deprived of the extra  she paid because of the PPI. 
So RBS needed to pay her simple interest on the PPI proportion of each loan repayment she made. 
And it needed  to do this from the date of each payment to the date she received her refund. The rate 
we expect businesses  to use to do this is 15% for any period until April 1993 and 8% thereafter.
Having reviewed  the information provided by RBS, Im satisfied that it has undertaken the above 
interest calculations in the way in which I would have expected  it to. So, once again, I havent seen 
anything which makes  me think RBS has understated  the amount of simple interest which it should 
pay Miss N.
It might be helpful if I illustrate  the above  compensation  calculations in relation to one of the ten loans. 
I will do so for loan 10 as this includes most of the aspects of the compensation  calculation which  I 
have considered above.
Ref: DRN93607565RBS says that loan 10 commenced in November  1999 and had a term of 36 months. The loan was for 
£4,500 and added to this was the cost of a PPI single premium policy (£742) to cover the repayments 
on this loan.  The loan was used in part to re-finance loan 9. And when loan 9 was re-financed there 
remained £883.50 of unpaid PPI (after deduction of the PPI partial  refund given)  in the amount  re-
financed. This meant  that within the monthly loan repayments which Miss N was making  for loan 10 of 
£181.44 (including interest), she was paying £25.69 for the PPI premium covering that loan and 
£30.58 for the PPI included in the amount  brought forward and re-financed by loan 10  a total of 
£56.27 a month.
Miss N made 31 monthly repayments on loan 10 before it was repaid by her. This means  she paid a 
total of £1,744.37 (31x£56.27) because of PPI whilst  loan 10 was live. And I can see that RBS has 
included a refund of this amount in the breakdown of the compensation calculations it has provided.
As Miss N settled loan 10 early,  the outstanding balance at settlement included £124.29 in respect of 
her current PPI policys  premium (net of a £4.16 rebate received) and £148.00 in respect of previous  
PPI policies. And I can see that RBS has also included  these amounts in the compensation 
calculations its provided in relation to loan 10.
So in total, RBS calculated  that Miss N was due compensation of £2,016.66 for the payments shed 
made in relation to loan 10. And I think this is fair. RBS then calculated the interest (at 8% simple) on 
these payments, from the date when  Miss N paid them to the date the compensation  was paid to her 
(on average  a period of a little over 14 years). Again, this calculation has been carried  out in the way I 
would have expected it to be and appears fair.
Ive noted that, in the summary  compensation schedule that RBS has provided, there are some 
relatively minor differences for individual loans between the amounts of compensation  payable as 
shown in the detailed calculations and the actual  compensation paid to Miss N. I think  that this is likely 
to reflect the fact that Miss N did not receive  compensation  for the PPI on all of her loans at the same 
time. But I can see that the total compensation shown  as payable to Miss N on this summary 
schedule of £8,707.95 is lower than the actual compensation paid to her of £8,828.86. And Im 
satisfied that Miss N has not lost out as a result of these minor variations.
So in summary, and based  on the information  currently available to me, I dont think  that the way in 
which RBS has calculated the PPI compensation which  it has paid to Miss N is unfair. So I dont think 
it needs  to do anything further in relation to Miss Ns complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  I currently think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid Miss N fair 
compensation. So unless  the comments and evidence I get by 19 April 2019 change my mind, I wont 
tell it to do anything more.
I now invite  Miss N and The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to send to me any comments  or other 
evidence they think I should consider before I make my final decision.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360756