K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about advice given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire Financial
Advisers Ltd) to transfer the value of his deferred benefits in a former employers pension
scheme to a self invested personal  pension  (SIPP)  and invest in unregulated investments.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Mr Ss complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 30 October  2020. 
Ive summarised the findings I reached  below.  But Ill first recap  the facts and how our 
investigation progressed.  
Mr S had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary pension scheme. He was 
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm).  Firm A 
didnt have the necessary permissions to advice on final salary pension  transfers.  So Mr S 
was referred to HDIFA.
In March 2012, following advice from HDIFA, Mr S transferred the value  of his deferred
benefits (£31,190.16) to a SIPP. And on 30 March 2012 he invested £26,994.50  in carbon
credits.
In April 2016 Mr Ss representative  complained on his behalf to Meyado.  It didnt  uphold  the
complaint. The complaint  was referred it to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In summary  he said Mr Ss former  employers scheme  
had valuable  guaranteed  benefits. The impact of the SIPP  charges  on the critical yield hadnt  
been fully explained. The suitability report recommended leaving funds in cash  until an 
investment objective  had been decided. But, with no investment recommendation, HDIFA 
couldnt be satisfied  the transfer was suitable. The carbon  credits  investment had inherent 
liquidity risks and wouldnt  be suitable  for most  retail  investors. There was no evidence  that 
Mr S was made  aware  of the risks in transferring his pension  to a SIPP to invest  in an 
unregulated product. He had no previous experience of higher risk investments and didnt 
have the capacity to incur  a total loss of all his pensions.
Meyado didnt agree the complaint should be upheld. In summary  it said our analysis of
the factual matters was flawed; there  was an absence of evidence about Firm As role; it
wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when the money was invested on the
advice of someone else; and HDIFA had no control over but was being  blamed for Mr Ss 
investment decisions.  
Meyado didnt seek to argue that the transfer of Mr Ss accrued benefits,  for the purpose of 
investing in carbon credits,  was appropriate.  But the issue was the extent to which  Meyado 
could be held responsible for separate advice about  carbon credits given by another entity or 
Mr Ss own subsequent investment decision made  irrespective of warnings. HDIFAs 
recommendation was to transfer Mr Ss deferred  benefits to a SIPP.  It was the (separate) 
decision to invest in carbon credits  which had caused the loss.
We shared what Meyado  had said with Mr Ss representative. Amongst other things it said 
the unregulated  introducer was no longer in business and there  was no evidence  it would 
Ref: DRN95487212have any relevant documentation. Mr S had provided all the documents he has and theres 
nothing from the introducer or Firm A. Meyado  hadnt provided evidence to support what it 
says about Firm A advising  on the underlying investment. Documentation from the SIPP  
provider didnt show any involvement by Firm A. HDIFA couldnt comply  with its regulatory 
duties without advising on the intended investment. Mr S had relied  on HDIFAs advice. 
Theres nothing to support  Meyados claim Mr W wouldve made  the investment in any event 
and even if HDIFA had advised against.
We made some further enquiries of Mr S. We knew some investors had received incentive 
payments. Mr S confirmed  hed received  £10,797.80  on 2 April 2012.  He told us hed used 
most of the money to pay for a family holiday and to clear some  existing  debts. He said hed 
been told about the payment when  he was visited at home  by someone he described  as a 
financial adviser  although I think he was in fact an unregulated introducer. Mr S said the 
payment wasnt referred to as an incentive. Instead the introducer explained that Mr S would 
be able to withdraw a lump sum from the pension with the rest invested to deliver a better  
return as, according to the introducer,  Mr Ss pension, if left where it was, would be 
worthless by the time Mr S came  to retire.
Meyado has more recently  made  some  further  representations about the High Courts
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP) [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch). The claimant had argued that 
the underlying  investment had been  manifestly  unsuitable and the SIPP  provider had a duty 
to advise on the underlying investment. The claim was dismissed. The court held that the 
SIPP provider didnt  owe a duty to advise  on the underlying investments and there was no 
obligation to refuse the claimants  instructions to transfer.  Meyado  argued the judgment was 
material to Mr Ss complaint. Meyado said it would be making further submissions.
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 30 October 2020 I upheld  the complaint. In brief my 
main findings were:
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Mr S without considering  the overall
transaction. To determine  if the transfer  to a SIPP was suitable HDIFA had to
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset
that Mr S intended to invest in an unregulated investment  carbon credits.
The regulators 18 January 2013  alert makes  it clear that HDIFA couldnt just
advise on the SIPP itself. The underlying investment  was part and parcel of the 
advice to transfer. HDIFA needed to consider its suitability too. Even if the 
introduction had come from another regulated firm and HDIFA had made it clear that 
it wasnt giving advice  on the underlying investment.
Mr Ss attitude to risk had been  assessed  as balanced or medium. Carbon credits 
wasnt a suitable  investment  for a medium risk investor. The risks associated  with the 
investment were considerable. It was unregulated. The regulator has said that type of 
investment is usually high risk and unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of 
consumers. And then usually only for a proportion of an investors  funds. I didnt see 
that investing virtually  all of Mr Ss modest  and only pension fund in carbon  credits
matched his medium or balanced attitude to risk. The investment represented a 
higher degree  of risk than Mr S had said he was prepared to take and there was a 
real risk that he could  lose his entire  investment. 
what would  suitable  advice have been?
Ref: DRN95487213As per COBS  19.1.6G, HDIFA should  have started by assuming the transfer wouldnt
be suitable. Further examination would have  confirmed  that.
Mr Ss deferred benefits  in his former  employers  scheme represented his entire 
pension provision. His modest earnings  meant his ability to make  further  pension  
contributions was limited.  Mr S may have  said that this pension wouldnt make  a 
major contribution to his long term wealth. But, aside  from his entitlement to a state 
pension, it was his only pension  provision.
HDIFA should have  tested what Mr S said about how he regarded  his deferred 
benefits in his former employers scheme and explained  that hed be giving up 
guaranteed benefits  in return for those dependent on investment performance. And 
explored with him if he really had the capacity  for loss that could result. I dont think  
merely recording  what Mr S had apparently said about how he regarded his pension 
means that his capacity  for loss was taken into account.
I noted what had been said about  the funding position of the former employers 
scheme. But I didnt  think  the transfer was driven by those concerns.  The suitability 
report recorded that Mr S was disappointed with the level of service and ease of 
attainment of information from the current scheme administrators and wished to take 
action to ensure  his pension fund is removed from the control  of his previous 
employer. I didnt  think those sorts  of administrative  problems would justify giving up 
the security provided by the employers scheme. And, despite any deficit  in the 
scheme, I was unaware of any issues as to payment of benefits from the scheme. 
The Pension Protection Fund (PPF) is also available if an employers final salary  
scheme cant pay the benefits  that are due.
Meyado didnt argue that its advice  was suitable.  Its position  is that, due to the 
involvement of others it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Mr Ss 
losses in full. It could  be argued that Mr Ss losses stemmed mainly  from the failure  
of the investment. And, given the funds transferred were  initially held in cash,  no loss 
had resulted by the time HDIFAs  role ceased. But HDIFA  knew  that, ultimately,  the 
proposed investment  was in carbon credits. The money was only available to invest 
because HDIFA had recommended the transfers  and facilitated  them.  Mr S may have 
signed to confirm he understood the investments  may be high risk and that 
responsibility didnt  rest with HDIFA. But that didnt absolve HDIFA from its 
responsibility to consider  the investments too.
other parties  involvement
I referred to DISP 3.6.1R. It requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. 
I also referred to DISP 3.5.2R, DISP  3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3G. I agreed  the 
involvement of other parties is a relevant factor. Mr Ss complaint had been made 
against HDIFA. That didnt mean  I hadnt  considered  the involvement of others.  Or 
that we wont  consider  whether any other party might have some responsibility. But a 
conclusion that, despite the involvement  of other  (regulated) entities, the complaint 
should be upheld  against the party  complained about and that party should meet the 
consumers losses in full, wont  necessarily be unfair  or unreasonable.
I could understand  why Meyado  argued  that Mr Ss losses  arose  from the investment 
and not the transfer  or the SIPP itself. But if the transfer hadnt happened and the 
SIPP hadnt been set up, Mr S wouldnt have been in a position to make the carbon 
credits investment. On that basis HDIFAs role was instrumental. 
Firm A had introduced Mr S to HDIFA. It was possible  that Firm A had given advice 
about the carbon credits investment, although  from what Id seen it hadnt. The SAR 
Ref: DRN95487214hadnt disclosed that advice was given.  And unregulated advice may have been 
given earlier. But there was no dispute that HDIFA had given advice. It thought it 
could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. But that was wrong. HDIFA needed 
to consider the proposed  investment too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed the unregulated entity  even it couldnt lawfully  have given 
advice) had advised  Mr S, and in the strongest possible  terms, to invest  in carbon 
credits, my decision would have  been  the same.  Mr S had deferred  benefits in a 
former employers defined benefit scheme.  Firm A wasnt competent  to advise on 
transferring those benefits. Firm A didnt  have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. 
Firm A had to refer the matter to HDIFA. 
HDIFA had the requisite permissions and expertise and responsibility  to advise Mr S 
properly on the overall transaction. Its role was pivotal, since the eventual  investment 
was wholly contingent on the transfer  taking place.  HDIFAs advice that M S should 
transfer to a SIPP so that he could invest in a high risk, unregulated,  illiquid 
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Mr S couldnt  have invested  as he did.
My starting point as to causation was that HDIFA advised Mr S to transfer. So it was 
responsible for the losses hed suffered in transferring  to the SIPP  and investing in 
carbon credits.  That isnt wrong  in law or irrational but reflects  the facts of the case  
and HDIFAs pivotal  part in the matter. HDIFA could have  prevented  the investment. 
Instead it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice that Mr S transfer. Mr S was 
only able to invest in carbon credits because HDIFAs  unsuitable advice unlocked  the 
money from his former employers pension scheme. The transfer itself was 
unsuitable - and Meyado hadnt argued otherwise.
I didnt see that HDIFA could say that if Mr Ss investment strategy had been 
reviewed his losses would  have been reduced or avoided.  My understanding  was 
that the carbon credits investment was illiquid throughout. Any later advice to invest  
differently wouldnt  have made any difference. Further, and in any event, it appears 
that HDIFA took at least one fee for ongoing advice. If so, responsibility for reviewing  
the investment  rested with HDIFA. 
If Meyado considered  that others had some responsibility in the matter it was 
presumably open to Meyado to pursue those other parties.  I didnt think  Mr S would 
object, if Meyado met his losses in full, to assigning his rights to Meyado.
what would  Mr S have done  if HDIFA had given him suitable advice?
HDIFA had given  unsuitable advice to transfer  and so it was responsible for the 
losses flowing from the transfer including, for the reasons Id explained,  Mr Ss 
investment losses. But I recognised there  was an argument  Mr S may have  gone  
ahead in any event  and even if HDIFA had advised him against.  
Mr S had said hed have heeded advice  from HDIFA not to transfer  to invest as hed 
planned. I didnt  see any real reason to disbelieve that. He had to get regulated 
advice from a firm that had the necessary  permissions to advise  on defined benefit  
transfers. Firm A didnt. HDIFA were the experts and had the requisite skill, 
experience and regulatory permissions  to advise on such transfers. I thought  Mr S 
wouldve placed significant weight on what HDIFA said. 
If HDIFA had given  suitable advice HDIFA wouldve advised Mr S against transferring 
from his former employers defined benefit scheme. HDIFA would also have made it 
clear why it was unable to advise his to transfer. HDIFA should have considered the 
investment and spelled out the risks. That would  have  countered  any overly positive 
views expressed by any other  party. If HDIFA had done  that and told Mr S it didnt  
recommend the transfer, hed have thought about whether what  he was planning was 
a good idea after all. 
Ref: DRN95487215In saying that I didnt  underplay the unregulated  introducers role. Hed visited Mr S at 
home and Mr S had referred to him as a financial adviser. In talking about  or 
promoting the carbon credits investment the introducer  may have appeared 
knowledgeable and persuasive. And the investment  may have  seemed attractive. But 
I thought advice from HDIFA, as to the risks that the investment entailed  and why it 
wasnt suitable for an investor such as Mr S with a balanced attitude  to risk, would 
have put things into perspective  for Mr S and hed have been in a position to make 
an informed decision as to whether  the investment was really  right for him. I said hed 
have thought again. 
Mr S did receive a payment - £10,797.80. Thats a substantial sum. I acknowledged  it 
would have been a motivating factor for Mr S to go ahead with the transfer and 
investment. Mr S had said he used  the payment to clear some  outstanding debts. But 
I hadnt seen anything to suggest that any liabilities were pressing  or that his financial 
situation at the time was difficult.  The fact find records he had a monthly disposable 
income of £250. That suggested any debts were managed although the lump  sum 
gave Mr S the opportunity to pay them off which he did, with money  left over
for a family holiday.
Mr Ss aim was to improve  his pension benefits  at retirement.  Hed said he was
told his existing pension  provision would be worthless, which prompted him to 
consider the alternative suggested by the introducer. If Mr S had been told that the 
proposed investment was risky and might  bring about the result he was trying to 
avoid  that his pension  wouldnt be worth  anything at all  I thought hed have paid 
attention to that. I didnt think hed have been prepared  to jeopardise his entire, albeit 
modest, fund by investing in an untested, specialist and unregulated fund in return for 
an immediate cash payment. On balance I accepted what he said and that hed have 
reconsidered.
If HDIFA had said Mr S shouldnt go ahead and if hed have wanted to proceed 
anyway, HDIFA would  have  needed  to have  treated him as an insistent client.  HDIFA 
may not have been willing  to act on that basis. Even if it was, had the correct 
procedure been followed, that wouldve concentrated  Mr Ss mind on whether it was 
really advisable to transfer and give up the security of a defined benefits arrangement 
in favour  of benefits that were dependent on investment returns from a high risk, 
unregulated and speculative fund.
Mr S did receive a payment and hes had the use and benefit of that money so it 
should be taken  into account in calculating  redress.  
Meyados more recent comments
Meyado had referred to the case of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP. Meyado  did indicate 
that it wished  to make further comments about the case. Wed  allowed Meyado ample time 
to do so. But we have to be fair to both parties. I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to 
proceed in the absence  of any further  detailed submissions about the case and when I didnt 
see that it was relevant.
First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations  whereas  Mr Ss complaint is made against his 
independent financial  adviser. Secondly, the issue in the court case was the extent, if
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension
arrangement. In the present case HDIFAs advice  was in respect of the transfer  of the value  
of Mr Ss benefits in his former employers defined  benefits scheme. I didnt see there was 
anything in the Adams v Carey judgement which was obviously relevant to the present case.
Ref: DRN95487216responses to my provisional  decision
Mr Ss representative said that Mr S accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr S asked that 
Meyado pay any legal costs in respect  of the assignment of rights both in respect  of the 
drafting of the agreement and any legal costs  Mr S incurred in seeking  advice  about  it. And 
the same  for any undertaking  required  from Mr S.
Meyado didnt accept  my provisional decision and made further  comments. In summary:
 Mr Ss decision to open a SIPP and transfer the value  of his deferred  pension 
benefits was made  with assistance and/or advice from a number of entities,  not just 
HDIFA. Id continued to ignore the other entities involvement, even though it was 
factually undeniable that Firm A (a regulated  entity) was materially involved. That 
wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances but irrational. 
 Our unwillingness  to look into the relationship between Mr S and Firm A - which was 
materially involved in advising Mr S to invest in the illiquid  investment  at the heart  of 
his complaint and (once the SIPP was open)  was to advise  on his planned 
investments  meant my decision was being  made in the light of a deliberate  choice 
to exclude relevant  matters. The requirement (under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)) to take into account all the circumstances means the 
actions of other entities with whom Mr S interacted as part of his decision  making 
cant be excluded. 
 Our approach suggests, where  multiple  entities (regulated or otherwise and here 
Firm A was regulated) are involved, well disregard all but the one at which the 
complaint is explicitly  directed and hold that firm accountable for all failings, 
irrespective of where liability should properly  lie. Entities are at the mercy of who a 
complainant happens  to name on the complaint  form and when many complainants  
wont have a true understanding of the roles and responsibilities of those with whom  
theyve dealt. Thats contrary to our obligations  under  FSMA and demonstrably 
unjust to one or more  parties. 
 That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Our reluctance to examine Firm As 
involvement has meant that key documents and evidence has been unavailable to 
Meyado and us. Our enquiries have been at best incomplete and Meyados ability to 
defend itself has been seriously  impaired. 
 And it had led to a fundamental error as to causation. The (provisional) decision was 
based on the premise that, without  HDIFAs involvement, the investments  and so 
Mr Ss losses  wouldnt have  occurred. That oversimplifies the true position and 
failed properly to take into account  both Mr Ss decision  to invest  and that it is the 
investments, and not the SIPP, which are the primary cause  of his losses.  And the 
decision disregards how Mr S held himself  out to HDIFA. 
Meyado highlighted sections of my (provisional) decision.
Mr S had already  decided to transfer  his existing pension before HDIFA was 
involved. His determination to transfer cant have been influenced by HDIFA. And, 
following the transfer, Firm A was to advise on the investment. My decision was 
irrational and relied on speculation.
The correct factual  position was that an entity  other than HDIFA was the advising 
entity. Our unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all 
evidences irrationality  and unfairness. We hadnt properly considered  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Ref: DRN95487217Id conceded  that Mr S had received a substantial incentive  payment (£10,797.80). 
Mr S was in desperate  need  of those  funds. It was unfounded  speculation to dismiss 
the incentive payment to conclude that Mr S wouldnt  have proceeded in any event. 
Its irrational, when  the weight of evidence  overwhelmingly points to the conclusion 
Mr S would have proceeded with his chosen  investment come what may.  
HDIFA had no involvement  in the decision  to invest in carbon credits.  Its difficult,  if 
not impossible, to say HDIFA  had knowledge of, and should  take the blame for, an 
investment decision  made  after HDIFAs involvement ceased and when HDIFA did 
not and could not have had any influence or control over the ultimate investments. 
It was conjecture to say that if HDIFA had advised against transferring  Mr S would 
have thought again. Its at odds with the evidence as to Mr Ss determination not to 
heed warnings  and ignores the fact that he ultimately invested in a product in which  
HDIFA had no involvement.  And Id disregarded  Mr Ss assessment of his own 
investment experience  and attitude to risk. 
Id referred to the regulators alert dated 18 January  2013.  But Id conceded  that dealt 
with where an adviser took on a client from an unregulated introducer, which wasnt  
HDIFAs situation. I hadnt attempted to deal with that key distinction. 
In conclusion Meyado  said my decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Nothing 
should detract from its sympathy  for Mr S. Hed suffered loss as a result  of investing 
(on the advice of others) in investments  which had failed. But my decision failed 
properly to appreciate  causation  and reliance issues.  Based on the information wed 
considered  or chosen not to consider  the decision  was unfair and unjust in 
apportioning the entire responsibility for Mr Ss losses  on Meyado and didnt meet  our 
obligations under  FSMA. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out
above, Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados
comments in response  to my provisional  decision.
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of 
others and in particular  Firm A. I dont agree we havent made sufficient enquiries about that. 
Or that Ive misunderstood or ignored the part played by Firm A (or the unregulated  
introducer) such that my decision cant properly be said to have taken into account  all the 
circumstances of the case as required by FSMA. 
The central point  is that Mr S had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary  
pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and referred  him to HDIFA. Theres no 
dispute that HDIFA did advise Mr S to transfer  to a SIPP. HDIFA set up the SIPP and 
arranged the transfer. 
Ive acknowledged  its possible  that Firm A gave advice about the carbon credits investment. 
And (unregulated) advice may have  been given too. But theres no dispute  that HDIFA did 
give advice. HDIFA thought it could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. But, as Ive 
explained, its understanding  was wrong:  HDIFA needed consider the proposed investment 
too.
Even if Firm A (or indeed  the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt lawfully  have given
Ref: DRN95487218advice) had advised Mr S, and in the strongest possible  terms, to invest  in carbon credits, 
my decision  would have  been the same. Mr S had deferred benefits in a former employers 
defined benefit  scheme.  Firm A wasnt competent to advise on transferring those benefits. 
Firm A didnt have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. Firm A had to refer the matter  to 
HDIFA. 
Ive focused on HDIFAs own responsibilities  as the only business involved with the capacity 
to unlock the funds held in Mr Ss defined benefits  scheme. HDIFAs role was pivotal, since  
the eventual investment was wholly contingent on the transfer taking place. HDIFAs advice 
that Mr S should transfer to a SIPP so that he could invest in a high risk, unregulated,  illiquid  
investment was unsuitable. But for the transfer  Mr S couldnt  have invested  as he did. 
I dont agree that well always  disregard the involvement of any other entities and hold the 
business at which the complaint is explicitly directly responsible  for all failings, irrespective of 
where responsibility might properly  lie. I agree that a complainant  wont  always  understand 
the different  roles  and responsibilities  where  more than one party  is involved. But here, as 
Ive explained,  it was HDIFA who gave the advice to transfer. Its role was central. I dont 
think concentrating on whether the advice  HDIFA gave  was suitable is unfair or unjust. 
Rather, and as Ive said, it reflects HDIFAs central and pivotal role in the matter.  
Meyado says our reluctance to examine Firm As involvement means that key documents  
and evidence hasnt  been made available. Ive seen some emails  between HDIFA and Firm 
A.  Its  clear HDIFA knew an unregulated introducer was involved  it seems HDIFA received 
the referral for Mr S direct  from the introducer.  And the suitability report for Mr S was sent via 
the unregulated  introducer (and copied to Firm A).  I also note theres an email  from HDIFAs 
adviser referring to the unregulated introducer and saying that he was intending to increase  
his marketing and push for more business for us [ie HDIFA]. Given that Firm A was getting a 
fee (£500) for the introduction, I can see it would have been interested in progress of the 
transfer and doing what it could to help any transfer go smoothly. Meyado says, following  the 
transfer, Firm A was to advise on the investment.  But Mr S hasnt produced  any report  or 
suitability letter from Firm A indicating that investment advice was given.  In any event, as Ive 
made clear, HDIFA should  have  taken into account the investment when it was advising on 
the transfer. 
I dont see that Mr S, before HDIFAs involvement, had made a firm or irrevocable decision 
to transfer which couldnt  have been influenced by HDIFA. I dont agree it wouldnt have 
made any difference if HDIFA  had advised Mr S against transferring. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I thought hed have placed  weight on what  HDIFA had said and 
heeded advice  not to transfer to invest in carbon credits. And why, in practical terms, it 
wouldnt have been straightforward for him to have simply disregarded HDIFAs advice and 
proceeded anyway.  I maintain, if HDIFA had advised Mr S against, hed have thought again.
Meyado says it was the investment and not the transfer that caused  Mr Ss losses.  But 
HDIFAs advice meant  Mr S was able to access his pension fund to make the unsuitable  
carbon credits investment.  He didnt  have any other  funds he couldve invested.  And if 
HDIFA had said he shouldnt do it then Mr S wouldve needed  to have overcome other 
hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable advice made it easy for Mr S to 
proceed and didnt give him any reason  to question whether what he was planning  was 
really advisable. I dont  think thats an oversimplification. As Ive said I think  it reflects 
HDIFAs central and pivotal role. 
Ref: DRN95487219Meyado asserts  that Mr S was in desperate need of the incentive payment hed received. 
which Id said it was fair to assume   hed received. But I maintain what Ive said earlier about 
that. I dont  doubt  that Mr S was happy to get that sort of payment. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that his financial circumstances were difficult. I dont think a finding that 
Mr S wouldnt have  proceeded  if HDIFA had advised against and despite the incentive 
payment is irrational. 
Meyado says HDIFA cant be blamed for any investment decision made after its involvement 
ceased and where  HDIFA didnt have  any influence or control  over the ultimate  investments. 
But HDIFA knew from the outset (see, for example, its referral  process record)  that the 
reason for the transfer was to invest in carbon credits. 
Meyado also says that the regulators alert deals  with the situation where an adviser takes 
on a client from an unregulated introducer,  whereas here the referral came from Firm A, a 
regulated business.  But its clear that HDIFA knew an unregulated  introducer was involved 
and indeed the initial instruction seems to have  come  direct from the unregulated introducer. 
But, that aside,  it remains the case that it wasnt open to HDIFA just to advise  on the transfer  
 it had to consider the proposed underlying investment too. 
The regulator issued  a further alert on 28 April 2014.  Again it didnt follow  the introduction  of 
new regulations  but restated the existing position. It included the following:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle and the wrapper and the expected  underlying 
investments and whether or not such investments were regulated  products.  It said,  despite 
the initial alert (in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model  which purportedly 
restricted advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a 
pension transfer  or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing 
pension arrangement and the underlying  investments  intended to be held in the SIPP. Even  
if the introduction  came  from a regulated firm, HDIFA had to consider  the proposed 
underlying investment too. HDIFA knew that was carbon credits.  It was unsuitable for Mr S. 
On that basis the advice  to transfer  was unsuitable  too. 
All in all my views remain as previously indicated. I uphold the complaint. Meyado must 
redress Mr S as set out in my provisional decision  and which Ive repeated here.  
Ive thought about Mr Ss request that Meyado, as well as meeting the costs of drawing up 
any assignment and/or undertaking, should cover the costs of Mr S obtaining  legal advice 
about those matters. But I dont think thats necessary. Id expect  those formal  agreements,  if 
required and that isnt certain,  to be relatively  clear  and simple and such that it wouldnt be 
necessary for Mr S to take legal advice. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN954872110Im upholding the complaint. My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr S as far as possible in
the position hed be in now,  if HDIFA had given him suitable advice.  I think  Mr S would have
retained his deferred  benefits in his employers scheme.
I understand that Mr Ss SIPP has been closed  and the carbon credits  investment has been
assigned to him. On that basis I dont need  to make any award for future  SIPP fees.
But, if Meyado considers  that Mr S may receive some value from the carbon credits 
investment in the future,  Meyado may require, if Mr S is redressed in full, that he provides an 
undertaking to pay Meyado any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Meyado  will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking. Similarly, if Meyado requires an assignment of rights from Mr S, it will need to 
meet the costs  involved. Any undertaking and/or assignment should be drafted in a clear  and 
simple format. 
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision  and using the most  recent financial assumptions published at
the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should  be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance  of the final decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to for Mr Ss
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the employers  scheme  on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or
allowance.
If payment  into a pension  isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications,  it should
be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for future
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
For example, if Mr S wouldnt yet have  taken a tax-free cash sum from the employers
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days  of the date Meyado
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Meyado to
pay Mr S this compensation.
Ref: DRN954872111Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the lump sum
incentive payment  Mr S received.  It should  do this by applying a withdrawal  of £10,797.80
from the calculation  on the date Mr Ss carbon credits  investment  was made (30 March
2012). Its possible Mr S could face an unauthorised payment charge. But whether that will 
be the case and, if so, what amount Mr S may have to pay is uncertain. If required, Meyado 
should give Mr S an undertaking to meet any unauthorised payment charge that he may in 
the future  have to pay.
Meyado should  also pay Mr S £250  for the worry and upset this matter has caused  him.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd must redress Mr S as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9548721