K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains Prescott Jones Ltd (Prescott Jones) mis-sold him a construction  sector 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr Is a sole trader. In February  2016  Prescott  Jones arranged  a construction  sector 
insurance policy for him. In April 2016 his premises were burgled. A number  of items were 
stolen. He made a theft claim on the policy. But the insurer refused to pay it. Instead it 
avoided his policy (treating it as though it had never  existed).  
The insurer  said Mr I hadnt told it, when taking out the cover, information about his financial 
history  hed been bankrupt,  a director of liquidated  firms and disqualified from being a 
director. It said if it had known it wouldnt have  offered cover on any terms. 
Mr I says this was Prescott Jones fault. He says it failed to take adequate steps to ensure 
he had suitable  cover. It knew  about his financial history but didnt tell the insurer. He says if 
Prescott Jones had acted correctly he would  have had a suitable  policy  in place when the 
burglary happened. So his claim would  have been  paid. Because of that he wants it to cover  
his losses from the burglary. As the policy was avoided Mr I didnt have any cover in place 
for a while  he says Prescott Jones should provide  cover for that period. 
Prescott Jones says it had acted appropriately.  It denies it knew about  any of that 
information about Mr Is financial history.  It said hed failed to declare it. So it refused to pay 
him anything.  
Our investigator said he didnt think Prescott  Jones had acted unreasonably. So he didnt 
recommend it pay Mr I anything. Mr I didnt accept  that. So the complaint has come to me for 
a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Prescott  
Jones pay Mr I or do anything differently. 
Mr I says Prescott Jones did know about his financial history. He says one member  of staff 
in particular was well aware of it  as hed arranged Mr Is cover during the years that those 
events took place. Hed been  working for a different insurance broker then. Mr I accepts he 
didnt check and correct  documents given to him by Prescott Jones during the sale. These 
said he hadnt ever been  disqualified  as a director or been bankrupt.   Mr I says he just relied  
on the expertise  and knowledge of the member of staff to ensure the policy was suitable.
If Prescott Jones did know about Mr Is financial history it shouldnt have recommended the 
policy to him. It, including its member of staff, denies any previous knowledge. I havent seen 
anything, apart from what Mr I says, to show it did know. And there isnt anything  to confirm  
if it did or didnt. So Ive had to decide whats most likely. I accept its possible Prescott Jones 
was aware of Mr Is financial history. But from what Ive seen he didnt seem  to be open 
about his financial  history  so I think its most  likely he didnt make Prescott Jones aware of 
it. 
Ref: DRN97134192Prescott Jones has provided an insurance proposal  form.  Its dated  about seven months  
before the sale of this policy. On the first page  it asks if Mr Is ever been declared  bankrupt 
or the director of a liquidated company. Both questions are incorrectly answered no. Mr I 
has signed the proposal on the next page.
Mr I was interviewed, during the claim, by the insurers loss adjuster. During this he showed 
a similar  failure to be open about  his financial history. The loss adjuster says he asked Mr I if 
he had been declared bankrupt. It seems  he incorrectly  answered no. 
So, from what Ive seen,  when Mr I has been  asked about his financial history hes failed to 
provide accurate answers. That makes  me think he probably wasnt  open and honest with 
Prescott Jones and the member of staff. Additionally his misleading  answer  to the loss 
adjuster doesnt  support his claim that Prescott Jones knew about his financial history.  If he 
thought that I think its unlikely  hed have denied the bankruptcy  hed probably  have 
thought the insurer already knew about it or it didnt matter. 
Prescott Jones provided an advised  service. So it needed to take reasonable steps, 
including asking the right questions, to make  sure any policy  it recommended  was suitable 
for Mr I. And it had to provide good enough information for him to decide if the policy  was 
right for him. 
It is possible Prescott Jones didnt do what it was required to. But even if it had done 
everything right I dont think it would have  made  a difference  anyway. Thats because,  for the 
reasons given above, if it had asked the right questions about  bankruptcy or liquidations I 
dont think its likely  Mr I would have answered correctly.  And if it had provided him with good 
enough information he wouldnt have considered it anyway  as explained above hes said 
he didnt look at the information  given  to him during  the sale.  So Mr I would still have ended 
up with an unsuitable  policy  and an unpaid claim.  
I recognise Mr I will be unhappy with this decision. But Ive had to make it based  on the 
information available to me. And thats  made  me think he probably didnt tell Prescott Jones 
about the adverse financial history.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN97134193For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Prescott Jones Ltd pay Mr I or do anything  
differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9713419