K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about three instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal Credit  
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable.
background
Mr E was given three instalment loans by SL from April 2016 to May 2017. A summary of the 
loans taken out by Mr E is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 2/4/16 15/4/16 (Loan withdrawn)
£100 13 weekly repayments of  
£11.01
2. 27/2/17 17/5/18 £400 6 monthly repayments  of 
£126.40
3. 17/5/17 Unpaid £800 10 monthly repayments of 
£160
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr E for details of 
his income and expenditure. And SL also applied extra safeguards  and buffers to Mr Es 
declared expenses  to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit  and internal checks.  It 
said that the information it obtained showed  that the loans were affordable and left Mr E with 
a comfortable  disposable income. 
The adjudicator didnt initially recommend that any of the loans should be upheld. Mr E 
responded to her view to say that SL should have done further checks before  Loan 3. These 
would have shown  that Mr E was borrowing from other lenders and gambling.  The 
adjudicator then issued a second view which recommended that Loan 3 should be upheld.  
She said that proportionate checks would most likely  have shown that Mr E was having 
problems managing his money.
SL responded to say that its calculations showed  that after Mr E had paid for all his financial 
commitments (excluding Loan 3) his housing costs  and other expenditure, and it had applied  
its additional buffers,  Mr E was left with a disposable income of £837. It said that Mr Es 
repayments to other lenders were included in the financial commitments  figure  it used. So it 
had already accounted for these and deducted  them from Mr Es disposable income.  So SL 
said that Loan 3 was affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When SL lent to Mr E the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN91621182SL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr E could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Es 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that SL was required to establish  whether 
Mr E could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
SL did a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr E. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr E declared his monthly income as between  £1,540  and £1,620 and his 
expenditure as £775 before Loan 1 and £680  before Loans 2 and 3. 
I also note that SL checked Mr Es credit file before agreeing to the loans. SLs checks 
showed that Mr E had no recent bankruptcies, no county court  judgements, no debt 
management plans  and no individual voluntary arrangements. The checks  also showed that 
Mr E hadnt  taken out any short  term loans in the previous month or the previous  three  
months. I shall refer below to other entries in the credit checks.   
Ref: DRN91621183Mr E has provided this service with a copy of his credit  report.  I can see there were 
numerous other short term loans shown on this report  which  I shall refer to below.
But Im also aware that when a lender carries  out a credit check, the information it sees 
doesnt usually  provide  the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences between  the information provided by SLs credit check  and Mr Es actual 
situation.
I can see that Loan 1 was for £100 repayable  by 13 weekly repayments of £11.01.  I note that 
Mr Es declared monthly disposable income  was £765. SL had also deducted safeguards  of 
£277.82. So it calculated  Mr Es disposable  income to be £487.18. I also note that SLs 
credit check  showed two payments in arrears in the last six months  on active  credit  
accounts. Nevertheless I think that the checks SL carried out before agreeing  Loan  1 were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mr E needed  to make on Loan  1 were relatively modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to SL. And I dont think  the repayments  were so 
large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mr E financial  difficulty.
So given Mr Es repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and that this was his first loan with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate for SL to ask him for the amount  of information that would be needed  to show 
the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr E provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think SL was wrong  to give Loan  1 to Mr E.
I note that Mr E exercised his right of withdrawal on Loan 1 and repaid  the loan and the 
interest due on it 13 days after taking it out.
There was then a gap of around  ten months between when Mr E repaid Loan  1 and when he 
took out Loan 2. I think this was significant  enough  a gap at this stage of Mr Es borrowing 
history with SL to constitute a break  in the chain of lending. 
Loan 2 was for £400 to be repaid over six months  with a highest monthly repayment of 
around £126.40 The amounts that Mr E needed to repay each month were smaller than if 
hed taken a normal  payday loan. But of course  he was committing  to making those 
repayments over a far longer  period.  
SLs credit checks  showed that hed had one payment in arrears  in the previous six months. 
But overall I dont  think the results  of SLs credit  checks appear to contain anything  that I 
think should have  caused additional  concerns  to the lender about Mr Es financial situation. 
Mr E had declared his disposable income to be £910 and SL hadnt  applied any safeguards.  
I dont think the repayment  amounts on Loan 2 were so large that its obvious they wouldve 
caused Mr E financial difficulty. 
So given Mr Es repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for SL to ask 
him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr E provided or the information 
Ref: DRN91621184SL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  
what he was saying.
Mr E had repaid  two of his monthly  payments on Loan 2 when he applied  for Loan 3. The 
loan amount had doubled  and the loan was to be repaid over 12 months with a highest 
instalment of £160. So Mr E was committing to make his repayments over a far longer period 
than his previous  loans.  And as Mr E took out Loan 3 whilst Loan  2 was still outstanding,  the 
highest total monthly repayment for both loans of around £286 would be repayable for 
around ten months. 
I can see that SLs credit  checks showed that Mr E had just opened a new credit account 
before Loan 3 which might have caused  concerns,  although the checks showed that no 
active credit  accounts were in arrears.  SL had added safeguards of £103 to Mr Es declared  
financial commitments  and a further  buffer of £65 to reflect what  it had seen in its credit 
checks and internal models. So it was aware that Mr E wasnt  declaring all his financial 
commitments. SL calculated Mr Es disposable income to be £837. But I think the pattern 
and increasing  amount  of Mr Es borrowing with repayments over a long period were such 
that it wasnt reasonable for SL to rely on that information. And I think SL should have been 
concerned that the combined  repayments  on Loans  2 and 3 were a significant proportion of 
Mr Es disposable income and that both needed  to be repaid  over ten months.  I also think SL 
ought to have asked why a person with an apparent high level of disposable income was 
coming back to it for a £800  loan whilst his previous loan with SL was still outstanding. So I 
think all this should have  prompted SL to do some  additional checks  such  as asking Mr E for 
more information  about his other short term borrowing commitments.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Mr E was borrowing from at least  four other 
short term lenders  and was committed to repaying them at the same time as hed be 
repaying Loans 2 and 3. I have seen these loans  on Mr Es credit report  and bank 
statements. 
So I think it would have  been clear to SL if it had done proportionate  checks that Mr E was 
facing significant  problems managing his money and unlikely to be able repay Loan 3 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I dont think SL should  have provided  Loan 3 to Mr E.
So Im upholding  this complaint in part and SL should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
Refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr E has paid on Loan  3, and pay 8% simple 
interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 and 
pay any balance to Mr E;
Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 3 from Mr Es credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Ref: DRN91621185my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to take the 
following steps. If SL has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy this back. If it is not able or 
unwilling to do so, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below. 
1.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr E has paid on Loan  3 and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
2.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 3;
3.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  3 
and pay any balance  to Mr E; and
4.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 3 from Mr Es credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9162118