K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Elderbridge Limited  misled her about the amount she owed for a 
secured loan. She asks for compensation for the upset and despair she suffered  when  she 
found out she owed far more than shed  been led to believe. 
background
Ms M took out a secured loan with another provider  in 2006. She had financial difficulties 
and the loan went into arrears. The loan was transferred to Elderbridge in 2016. Soon after 
this she received a letter  from Elderbridge saying the balance  was about £22,000.
Ms M received a letter  from Elderbridge in 2018 saying the loan balance  was just under 
£9,000. But when she called Elderbridge she was told the balance  was much higher. She 
was told there was over £25,000 in suppressed interest that she needed to pay. Ms M says 
shed never  been  given  clear information  about  how much she owed. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
as the loan isnt regulated theres  no legal requirement for Elderbridge  to send annual  
statements. But its reasonable to expect it to give clear  information about  the remaining 
loan balance. 
suppressing the interest was in Ms Ms interest. But Elderbridge  should  have  told her 
about it. Ms M couldnt plan for her financial future. And when she was told about  the 
suppressed interest the information  Elderbridge gave her was confusing.  
Our adjudicator said Elderbridge should tell Ms M what  the current outstanding balance  is, 
how the balance  is reducing and explain what will happen when the main loan balance is 
repaid. She said it should pay her £300  for the trouble and upset  this has caused.
Elderbridge didnt agree. It said the previous lender had sent Ms M a settlement amount of 
about £53,000 in 2015, so shed have known  the balance couldnt have reduced to £22,000  
by late 2016. It said its standard form letters only give the capital balance  owed, not any 
suppressed interest  which accrues  separately, and therefore the letters  were  correct. 
Elderbridge said its call handler explained  how the suppressed interest benefitted Ms M. The 
call handler couldnt  give clear information about the remaining term as this calculation had 
to be done by its finance team. Elderbridge said it would provide an up to date settlement 
figure, but didnt agree  to pay compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ms M has raised  other complaints about how her account has been  managed.  Here,  I can 
only consider the complaint that she brought to us. That is, the misleading information  she 
Ref: DRN96143802says she was given  by Elderbridge about  the amount shed need to pay to clear the loan 
balance and the upset caused by finding out she owed an additional £25,000.
what happened?
Ms M took out a secured loan with another provider  in 2006. She had financial difficulties 
and the loan went into arrears. The lender at that time amended  her loan account so that 
interest was suppressed. This meant that while interest was applied to the capital balance  it 
wasnt added to the loan account. The intention was that Ms M would be able to repay  the 
loan sooner as she wouldnt pay interest on unpaid interest and all of her payments  would  be 
used to repay the capital.
Ms Ms loan transferred to Elderbridge in 2016. In October 2016  she received a letter 
confirming her direct debit instructions. This gave her loan account balance as just over 
£22,000. In November 2018  Ms M received a letter from Elderbridge which  gave her account  
balance as just under £9,000. 
Ms M called Elderbridge  in November 2018.  She queried how long it would take to repay the 
loan if she maintained monthly  payments:  she couldnt understand how it would take another  
12 years.  Elderbridge told her this was because  interest on her account had been  
suppressed. Ms M was told there  was over £26,000  in suppressed  interest that she needed 
to pay. And that shed start paying this once shed repaid the capital. 
did Elderbridge  make an error?
Im not making any findings here about the previous  lenders decision to suppress interest or 
its communication with Ms M about  this. Im only looking  at the information  Elderbridge  
provided to Ms M after it took over the loan. 
Elderbridge didnt have to send annual statements to Ms M. But I think  its reasonable to 
expect the information it did send to her to be clear  and accurate. The letters  Elderbridge 
sent to Ms M gave her account balance as a separate item which simply said Account 
Balance: £-. Theres nothing to suggest that she owed more  than this. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Ms M should  have  worked out from information she received  in 2015 
that she owed  more than stated on the letters. I dont think the information given to Ms M 
was clear enough. 
From what  Ms M has said, she struggled  to maintain monthly payments. So its unlikely she 
would have been in a position to repay the loan sooner if shed known the amount owed was 
more than stated  on the letters. And Elderbridge was entitled to apply interest. So I dont 
think the incomplete information given  to Ms M left her in a worse financial position.
But I do think Ms M was caused upset  and distress. Shed made lump sum repayments,  
using compensation related to payment protection insurance. Shed overcome difficulties 
with other  debts and thought shed made good  progress repaying this loan. So I think  it must 
have been very upsetting to discover she owed another £26,000 and it would  take some  
years to repay this. 
Ive listened to the call when Elderbridge told Ms M about the suppressed  interest. Ms M was 
transferred to Elderbridges complaints team. I think the information it then provided about  
the suppressed  interest  the amount owed, that interest would  continue  to accrue until the 
capital balance was repaid and that Ms M would then start to pay the accrued interest  was 
Ref: DRN96143803clear. Ms M wanted to know when the loan would be repaid. The call handler couldnt tell her 
this, but she did say this was something  the finance  team could provide. 
The call handler explained  the purpose  of suppressing the interest and that this means Ms M 
will pay less interest overall. She said the overall cost of the loan had increased due to 
historic arrears. And she explained that because the loan is unregulated  it wasnt required to 
send statements and the previous lender  wasnt  required to write to Ms M when it decided to 
suppress the interest.
what should happen now?
Elderbridge has said it will provide up to date settlement  figures to Ms M. I think  it should  
also pay compensation for the upset caused by its unclear information about the amount 
owed. Our adjudicator suggested £300  and I think in the circumstances this is fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Elderbridge Limited  to provide an up to 
date settlement amount to Ms M and pay her £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9614380