K820x#14complaint
Mr M, represented by his solicitor, complains  that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as 
QuickQuid) was irresponsible in its lending to him.
background
Based on the evidence  in this case, Mr M was provided with seven payday loans by 
QuickQuid between November 2013  and 18 June 2017. 
Loan Amount Date Top up Repaid
1 £50 21 Nov 2013 20 Dec 2013
2 £150 27 Dec 2013 24 Feb 2014
3 £150 12 Sep 2015 7 Dec 2015
4 £200 12 Feb 2016 24 Mar 2016
5 £250 5 Jul 2016 £200 (12 Aug) 24 Oct 2016
6 £100 14 Feb 2017 24 Mar 2017
7 £100 18 Jun 2017 £75 (13 Jul)
£50 (5 Aug)23 Feb 2018
Mr M says that QuickQuid should  have realised that he couldnt afford to repay the loans 
without having  to borrow further. He says the loans  trapped  him in a debt spiral.
QuickQuid says that checks were carried out before the loans were provided and that Mr M 
didnt tell it he was suffering  from financial  difficulties. It says there were  large  gaps in Mr Ms 
borrowing history showing he wasnt taking out new loans  to repay existing  ones.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that there was enough evidence to say that loans one to four 
shouldnt have been provided. However  he thought that by loan five, Mr Ms overall pattern 
of borrowing  suggested  he'd become persistently reliant on short-term loans. He said that 
the pattern  of lending showed that lending had become unsustainable and that loans five, six 
and seven shouldnt  have been  provided.
QuickQuid did not agree that loans five onwards  should be upheld.  It noted  our adjudicators 
comments that about Mr Ms reliance on short term lending and said that there was a break 
of 103 days between  loans four and five and that loan six was for a much  lower amount than 
loan five. It also said that Mr M hadnt  displayed any financial  hardship during the time of the 
loans.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN96199782But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments  were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early  loans in this case were provided  before CONC.  At that time the relevant  guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make  a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
In this case, the first two loans  were  taken out in 2013 and then Mr M didnt take out another  
loan with QuickQuid  until more than a year later. Therefore I think it reasonable to consider 
the first two loans as part of a lending chain and loans  three  to seven (including  top up 
loans) a part of a second  lending chain.
Although there were  some gaps between the loans in the second lending  chain, I dont  think  
it would  have been reasonable for QuickQuid to conclude these were any indication that 
Mr Ms finances had moved  on from whatever situation had required his previous  loans.
Based on the information I have seen I dont  find I can say that the first two loans shouldnt  
have been provided.
Ref: DRN96199783Loan three was the start of the new lending chain  and based on what  I have seen I dont find 
I can say this shouldnt  have been provided. Mr M didnt repay this loan on time. There  is a 
note on the contact notes from Mr M saying  that he was struggling to change  his card 
details. Mr M repaid the loan in December. The following loan was provided in February 
2016.
Overall, I agree  with our adjudicator that there isnt enough to say loans one to four shouldnt 
have been provided.
By loan five, Mr M had been borrowing for a number of months in this lending  chain and 
while there were some  short breaks I think his pattern of borrowing  should have raised  
concerns. He has also not repaid  loan three  on time. Mr Ms loan amounts had been 
increasing and the fifth loan was for £250. He then topped this loan up with a further £200 a 
month after taking  the loan.  The repayment  on the loan (including top up) was substantial  
compared to his income.
Given the above I think that the fifth loan was unsustainable and shouldnt  have been lent to 
Mr M. After this Mr M continued  to borrow  from QuickQuid and while I note there were short 
breaks in the borrowing, Mr M did then top up his seventh loan twice.  Given  Mr Ms history 
and overall borrowing pattern  I dont think that loans  five onwards were  sustainable  and 
therefore I uphold  this complaint in regard to these loans.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five, six and seven. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on loans five, six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan five means  any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans five, six and seven should be removed  from 
Mr M's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9619978