K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Aviva  Insurance Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr F bought  the policy to protect his repayments when he took out a hire purchase 
agreement. It was at a meeting in 2002  with a third party, but Aviva has accepted  
responsibility for the complaint.  The loan included an amount to pay for the policy which 
provided Mr F with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, and some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
On Mr Fs credit  agreement the cost of the PPI was set out separately under the 
heading Agreement for Optional  Insurance. And Mr F signed  the agreement. So, 
overall I think Aviva made Mr F aware  he had a choice about buying  PPI, and he 
chose to take it out.
Mr Fs representative  argues that Aviva recommended the PPI to Mr F so this was an 
advised sale. Aviva disagrees  but I dont need to make  a finding  on this. I say this as 
even if Aviva had recommended the cover, I think it was suitable for Mr F based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Mr F was entitled  to less than three 
months pay from his employer if he was sick. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition  
to this - for up to the term of the loan for accident and sickness claims. It also gave 
him up to 12 months unemployment cover.  
Mr F had savings  worth less than three months salary  but the PPI wouldve meant 
he could have used  these to cover other living expenses whilst  not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs.  Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for 
Mr F if he was sick or lost his job. 
The cash  price of the policy, the interest  payable and the total amount payable  were 
shown on the agreement. And the monthly cost to repay  the PPI loan was set out 
separately. So it seems  Mr F was made  aware  of the overall  cost and found it 
acceptable. Ive seen no evidence the policy was unaffordable. And given how long 
the policy couldve paid out for, if Mr F made a successful claim he couldve got back 
quite a bit more than he paid for it.
Ref: DRN94465712Mr F wouldve only got back  a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  the 
policy early.  And his representative  says Mr F recalls he made it clear he hoped not 
to keep the loan in the longer term. But I havent seen anything from the time the 
policy was sold to suggest Mr F thought hed repay the loan early.  I have thought  
carefully about Mr Fs recollection,  but I also have to take into account  how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what he remembers. 
Mr Fs representative  argues that Mr F did restructure the loan after seven months  
which shows he wouldnt have bought the cover  if hed know  about the cancellation  
terms. But I can only fairly take into account what  has been  shown  was known by the 
parties at the time of the sale. And Im not persuaded theres enough  evidence  to 
conclude Mr F thought he was likely to repay the loan early.  So I dont think this 
meant the policy wasnt right for him.
Its possible Aviva didnt  point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr F 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely he 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think he would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr F has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9446571