K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the value The New India Assurance Company Limited (NIA) has put 
on her car after she made a claim on her car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs Rs car was stolen so she claimed  for the loss on her car insurance policy.  Under  the 
terms of the policy, NIA said it would  settle the claim by paying her the market  value for her 
car, less the excess. It valued  her car at £9,490.
Mrs R didnt accept the valuation as she thought her car was worth around  £12,000 and she 
said she cant replace  it for the amount NIA has offered.  She said shed  bought it around two 
years ago for around  £15,000.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she thought the valuation was in line with the 
industrys trade valuation  guides. Mrs R didnt accept the investigators opinion  and she 
maintained that she couldnt replace the car for the amount NIA was offering. 
So the complaints  been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
This services role isnt to work  out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under  the terms of Mrs Rs policy, NIA has to pay her the market value of the car, less 
her excess.
NIA has valued Mrs Rs car at £9,490.  Its said its valued this by reviewing the main industry 
trade valuation guides  and online adverts. Mrs R doesnt think this valuation is fair because  
she says she cant replace the car for the amount NIA is offering.
Its standard practice  for the industry to use trade  valuation guides to work  out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuations the guides 
give are based on the advertised and likely sales prices of similar cars with similar age and 
mileage for sale at the time of loss. 
Ive reviewed three main  valuation guides and they give a range  of values from £8,000  to 
£9,500. I appreciate Mrs R feels that her car is worth around £12,000. But her car had 
travelled around  170,000 miles which is a very high mileage for the cars age. And the 
valuation guides  take this into account  in reducing the valuation.
Ultimately, given NIAs valuation of the car is in the range of the valuation  guides respective 
valuations, I cant say that its valuation is unfair. 
Ref: DRN94561802my final decision
For the reason  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9456180