K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Sunny  provided  to Mr H between January 
2016 and January 2017. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 27/01/2016 29/03/2016 6 £950.00
2 29/03/2016 08/06/2016 6 £250.00
3 05/04/2016 11/07/2016 6 £700.00
4 06/07/2016 11/07/2016 6 £500.00
5 06/09/2016 12/11/2016 6 £950.00
6 05/12/2016 06/12/2016 6 £600.00
7 06/01/2017 06/01/2017 6 £850.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought  the loans from loan 5 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because he had a few loans with Sunny which he had struggled  
to repay.  They also felt Mr Hs pattern of borrowing indicated he was becoming reliant on 
these types of loans.  
Sunny disagreed and said it had done robust  checks on Mr H before lending to him. It also 
said even though Mr H made late payments on some of his loans  it didnt lend to him again 
until after those payments had been brought up to date.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr H could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN90326442the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done  so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 4. Mr H 
didnt respond  to the view. As there appears  to no longer be a dispute about these loans, I 
wont be making any findings on them.
Sunny says it carried out checks before  it lent loan 5 to Mr H and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns.  
But if it had carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 5, its likely to have found 
that Mr H was struggling financially. Looking at the information provided, the behaviour  of  
Mr Hs borrowing indicates he wasnt manging his finances. He had made several late 
payments on two of the previous loans hed borrowed from Sunny. Ive thought about 
Sunnys comments about the fact it only re-lent to Mr H after hed brought  his repayments up 
to date. But as this was Mr Hs fifth loan in nine months and for the largest  amount since 
loan 1, I think this should  have been  enough  for Sunny not to have lent because, in my 
opinion, Mr H wouldnt be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because at this point Sunny ought  to have realised Mr H was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr H had taken  out 6 loans  in just under  a year and had been indebted to 
Ref: DRN90326443Sunny for all of this time.  So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Mr Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
He also wasnt really  making any inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. The amount Mr H 
had borrowed for loan wasnt significantly lower than the amount hed borrowed for loan 1. 
And although Sunny has said Mr H didnt pay a lot of interest,  this was only due to some of 
the loans not running to term. But Mr H had paid large amounts of interest over the 12 
months he was borrowing  to, in effect, service the debt to Sunny.
I think that Mr H lost out because Sunny provided  borrowing for loan 6 because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period.
The length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 5 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Hs credit file;
any information recorded about  loans  6 and 7 is adverse. So, all entries  about  these  
loans should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN90326444my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9032644