K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that a fund recommended by Barral Sheppard Financial Services  
(BSFS) for inclusion in a Legal & General Offshore Investment  Bond  (the bond) was 
unsuitable. Mr S says the chosen fund didnt  match  his attitude to risk (ATR).
background
An investment held in Mr S existing Self-Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) matured. 
Following this, in March 2009, Mr S met with BSFS to discuss  how he should invest the 
£70,000 that had become available.
The fact find information,  recorded at the time the advice was given showed that:
Mr S was 67 years old and retired. The total value of his pension provision was 
£80,000
Mr S owned his own property and didnt have a mortgage
Mr S had £40,000 cash on deposit and a £250,000 share in a business. He had 
existing investments he was happy with, the details of which he didnt  disclose
Mr S priority was to achieve capital growth  and increase the value of his pension 
fund. He wanted to invest  over 5 years and still have partial access  to his capital
Mr S was an Ordinary Investor and on a scale of 1-5 where  1 was the lowest  and 5 
was the highest, Mr S ATR was 1/2. Mr S would  not accept capital volatility  
BSFS produced a suitability report and recommended that Mr S use an offshore investment 
bond wrapper.  Within the bond BSFS advised that 80% of Mr S funds be placed in the Legal 
& Generals Cash fund,  with the remaining 20% being invested in the Centurion Defined  
Return fund (Centurion  fund). The Centurion fund was an unregulated collective investment 
scheme (UCIS) with underlying investments in US purchased life insurance policies, 
particularly senior  life settlements. 
In its suitability report BSFS said Mr S had agreed  he was very much  a cautious risk 
investor. It also confirmed the Centurion fund was classified as low medium risk. Based on 
BSFS recommendation  Mr S invested  £21,000 in the Centurion  fund. His remaining £49,000 
was placed in Legal & Generals Cash fund.
Mr S later made property  investments via his SIPP.
The Centurion Fund was suspended in 2011.  The fund managers closed the fund to 
withdrawals and new investment. BSFS  wrote to Mr S at the time saying this was a positive 
step taken to protect the fund and that he didnt need to take any action.
In 2015 fund managers began applying a notional value to the Centurion  fund.  As a result, 
the value applied to Mr S investment was £3,822.94. Due to the significant  losses 
suggested, Mr S contacted BFS with his concerns in 2016.
Following Mr S concerns,  BFS agreed to take ownership of the bond holding his Centurion 
investment in exchange for a payment of £22,507.16. The payment was to reflect the net 
asset value of Mr S investment before a notional  value  had been applied. Mr S signed a 
letter saying he was released from any future  rights  or liabilities on the bond. The payment 
was made  to Mr S SIPP in August 2016.  As BSFS didnt treat Mr S concerns at the time as 
a complaint, no final response  letter  was issued. 
Ref: DRN97769912Mr S complaint was received by our service on 27 October 2016. 
BSFS objected to our service considering Mr S complaint, arguing  that it hadnt  been made  
in time. It said the event  Mr S was complaining about (i.e. the advice to invest  in the 
Centurion fund) was more  than six years ago. It also said that as Mr S had said in his 
complaint that hed wanted a return of 3% each year, he shouldve  become aware from 2011 
onwards that the investment wasnt growing in line with his expectations.  BSFS  said that as 
Mr S didnt raise any concerns until 2016,  more than three  years  after receiving statements 
in 2011 about the value of his fund,  his complaint had been  made  too late.
Our adjudicator considered BSFS objection.  His view was that Mr S wasnt  expecting a 
guaranteed return, and that the fluctuation in the value of the investment from 2011  was one 
which could reasonably be expected with any investment involving some  degree of risk. He 
didnt think Mr S complaint had been  made too late.
BSFS disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. One of our 
ombudsmen considered the matter  and broadly came to the same conclusions as the 
adjudicator. He considered Mr S only became aware he had cause for concern in 2015 
when a statement  he received showed the notional value that had been applied  to his 
investment. As Mr S complained within three  years  of the statement, he was satisfied the 
complaint had been made in time. 
BSFS didnt challenge the ombudsmans  conclusion,  so our adjudicator considered the 
merits of Mr S complaint.  Our adjudicator said Mr S complaint should  be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Mr S acceptance of BSFS offer to take ownership of the bond  holding his Centurion  
investment in exchange for a payment didnt mean  hed given up his right to complain 
about the advice hed received
As a UCIS the Centurion  fund was a high risk and complex investment. Despite the 
value of his assets  and experience  investing in property, Mr S didnt fit the profile of 
an investor for whom  UCIS would be suitable
At the time of the advice Mr S was retired, drawing his pension and wanted  his funds 
to remain relatively  liquid. The Centurion  fund wasnt appropriate  given Mr S 
circumstances and didnt  reflect  his cautious ATR. Although  the majority of Mr S 
money was placed in a Cash fund, this didnt mean  BSFS overall investment 
approach was cautious. The Centurion investment exposed  Mr S to a higher level of 
risk than he shouldve  been 
Mr S wasnt made fully aware of the nature  of his investment or the various risks 
associated with it
The adjudicator then set out what he thought  BSFS  should do to compensate Mr S. This 
included a payment  of £200 for disruption caused to Mr S retirement planning.
Mr S agreed with the adjudicators view.  BSFS disagreed and in summary  said:
Of the £70,000 Mr S invested, only £21,000 was invested in the Centurion fund, with 
the remaining  £49,000 placed in a cash fund. The fact that most of Mr S funds were 
in cash reduced the overall risk of its recommendation to an acceptable  level. The 
Centurion investment  also represented  a small percentage of Mr S overall wealth 
Ref: DRN97769913While  the Centurion fund was unregulated,  all other information at the time of the 
advice pointed to it being a relatively low volatile steady performing fund
Mr S was looking for growth but, following the economic meltdown that had 
happened, he didnt want this from the equity market. Having explained the nature of 
the Centurion fund Mr S decided  to invest
The bond holding  his Centurion investment had been repurchased by it, so Mr S 
hadnt suffered  any financial loss. It considered  this had been done  in full and final 
settlement, meaning Mr S couldnt  now complain or receive compensation regarding 
the matter
It disagreed with the £200 compensation recommended for disruption to Mr S 
retirement planning and said no such disruption had occurred
Our investigator considered BSFS points but his view remained the same. He said there  
was nothing to indicate the assignment  of the bond  was done on a full and final settlement 
basis or that Mr S was relinquishing  his right to complain about  the advice hed received. He 
also clarified the £200 recommended was for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr S 
as a result  of the uncertainty  relating to his investment. He still thought this impacted Mr S 
overall retirement planning.
BSFS disagreed but said that if the complaint  was upheld,  Mr S compensation should  either  
be a return of 3% on his original investment (since this is what  he said hed expected)  or the 
result of the calculation we directed  it to carry out- whichever was lower.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come to the same  
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadl y the same reasons. Ill explain why, but before I 
do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken  serious  note of the correspondence  and 
comments made, Ive limited my response to what I consider to be the issues central to this 
complaint. 
BSFS has said that by accepting its offer to take ownership of the bond holding  his 
Centurion investment,  Mr S cant now complain. It says the offer was made on a full and final 
basis and that by agreeing to relinquish  his rights to the bond, Mr S was also giving up his 
right to complain about the advice he received. Ive thought carefully about what  BSFS has 
said and reviewed the available documentation regarding BSFS  offer and Mr S acceptance. 
Having done so, I dont agree with BSFS  position  on the matter.
First, I think the context  within  which  BSFS  offer was made is an important consideration. 
BSFS correspondence  with Mr S shows its offer arose as a result  of Mr S wanting to access 
the money hed invested the Centurion  fund. As this wasnt  possible while  the fund was 
suspended, BSFS offered to take ownership of the bond. BSFS  said it understood Mr S 
needed liquid cash and that by making  its offer it was helping  him meet that need  at the 
time, so he didnt have  to wait until the fund matured.  BSFS 15 August  2016 letter  to Mr S 
said:
[BSFS] has assured you that even though you wanted to release these funds  earlier than 
the anticipated fund maturity (2019)  we will ensure that you get the Net Asset value  when 
Ref: DRN97769914the funds were suspended. i.e. BSFS will ensure that you have no capital loss and will have 
complete liquidity to drawdown your pension.
Based on this letter and BSFS earlier 11 July 2016  email, I think  Mr S wouldve understood 
BSFS offer to be a solution to overcome  the liquidity issue  with his Centurion investment. 
There was nothing to indicate BSFS offer was being  made in response to any complaint Mr 
S had or might later have  about the advice  hed received. From  what Ive seen BSFS  offer 
involved Mr S giving up ownership of the bond and any future rights or liabilities to it. I cant  
see that it was ever made clear that, by accepting BSFS offer,  Mr S would also be waiving 
any right he had to complain about  the original advice hed received from BSFS,  and that the 
payment would be in full and final settlement. The letter Mr S signed said:
Please note that I have agreed  to assign the bond () in return  for a payment in the amount 
of £22,507.16. Please accept this letter  to sign the deed of assignation, to be provided under 
separate cover, required to effect the assignation  on these terms thus relinquishing me from 
any future rights or liabilities on the aforementioned bond.
It may have been BSFS  intention that, with Mr S accepting its payment offer, the matter 
would be considered resolved, with Mr S not being  able to complain  at a later date. 
However, I think BSFS needed  to explicitly communicate  the specific conditions of its offer to 
Mr S to ensure he was fully aware of what he was agreeing to. As BSFS didnt do this, I cant  
fairly conclude that Mr S acceptance of its offer could be taken to infer he somehow 
accepted this as fair or full and final settlement for any complaint he had about the advice he 
received. That being  so, Im satisfied Mr S able to bring the complaint  hes now making  
about the 2009 advice  BSFS provided  him with. 
I should say that despite my view on the matter,  I do consider the payment  Mr S received 
following the reassignment of the bond  relevant when  considering  what, if any, losses  he 
may have  suffered as a result of the advice  he received from BSFS. Ive made provision for 
this later on in my decision under the heading fair compensation, which  sets out what  
BSFS must do to put things right.
Looking at Mr S circumstances at the time of the advice, I dont think  he was prepared, or in 
a position to take unnecessary risks.  He was 67 years old, retired and drawing on income 
from his pension. The suitability report  and fact find highlighted that Mr S was very much  
cautious investor, with a low attitude to risk. And for the question,  Will you accept capital 
volatility?, No was ticked as Mr S answer.  It was noted Mr S was prepared  to invest  over 
a five-year term and that his objective was capital growth. 
Although BSFS has said the intended  investment represented a small percentage of Mr S 
overall wealth, and I accept that he may not have been relying  solely on his pension to 
provide income  in retirement, I think an important consideration had to be the fact that the 
money Mr S wanted to invest  still formed a significant part of his total pension provision. It 
was intended  to provide him with a secure  income in retirement. As Mr S was already retired 
and it was recorded that he would  need partial  access to his capital, I think it shouldve  been 
clear that, while he may have been  prepared to take some risk, he wasnt prepared  or able 
to take a significant amount. The original  investment  of £21,000  represented more  than a 
quarter of the recorded value of Mr S pension  fund.
The Centurion Fund, a life settlement  fund,  was recommended to Mr S on the basis  that it 
was a low medium risk fund.  However,  BSFS report also said the fund wasnt  a 
mainstream investment.  Indeed, it was a UCIS.  UCIS investments  lack regulation and, by 
Ref: DRN97769915their very nature, have multiple significant  risk factors associated with them. According to the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), they have complex and inherent 
risks, which retail investors would be unlikely  to understand, such  as longevity (the 
policyholder may live longer than expected), potential insolvency of parties, offshore and 
currency exchange and liquidity issues.
UCIS are funds which are only considered suitable  for certain types  of investors.  Because of 
this, the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) restricts their promotion. Theres  
no evidence BSFS considered these financial promotion rules when giving 
recommendations to Mr S. But even if I accepted it did, ultimately  what  was material  was 
whether the advice given was suitable  in the circumstances.  I dont think it was.
The Centurion funds  underlying assets were purchased US life policies.  Having bought 
these policies at an apparent discount  to their actual value the premiums were then 
maintained until the death  of the assured  when  the fund would profit.  The fund was complex, 
invested in unusual potentially illiquid assets and allowed borrowing. Because of the 
specialised types  of assets  held,  there  was a significant risk that investors access  to capital 
could be restricted or suspended.  I note that the fund was also targeting  returns  of around 
8% per annum. Given the relationship between risk and return,  I believe this indicates that 
the fund carried  a higher degree of risk than Mr S wouldve wanted. Im also mindful that the 
industry regulator has described  this type of fund as being high risk and referred to these 
investments as toxic, complex () and () generally unsuitable for the vast majority  of 
retail customers.  
BSFS has argued that, at the time of the advice, the Centurion fund was generally  
considered to be a relatively  low volatile steady performing  fund. But I think the risks Ive 
mentioned above  were  all ones  BSFS ought reasonably  to have identified at the outset and 
discussed with Mr S, before the investment  was made. The risks were foreseeable and so I 
think BFS should have  been aware of the high-risk nature of the fund it was recommending.
Im satisfied the Centurion fund wasnt low-medium risk and believe it carried greater risks 
than were suitable for a cautious  investor as Mr S was determined to be. I therefore 
conclude that it was unsuitable  for him. In his particular circumstances, especially his age, I 
think Mr S shouldve  instead been  advised  to reduce the level of risk he was taking with his 
pension fund.
I can see from the available evidence that BSFS  did to some degree make Mr S aware of 
several of the risks associated with Centurion  fund (i.e. that growth wasnt  guaranteed and 
access to capital would be restricted for the 5 year term). However, disclosure of the risks 
doesnt automatically translate into suitability and Im not satisfied BSFS  warnings went far 
enough. In my view they were brief and general  at best when they shouldve  been extensive 
and explicit given the high-risk nature of the fund.  I cant see that BSFS  adequately 
explained the potential implications of investing  in the fund for Mr S specifically. Crucially,  
that, although hed stated  he couldnt accept capital volatility,  the high degree of risk that 
came with investing in the Centurion  fund could result in the loss of all or part of his 
investment. And that while Mr S wanted partial access to his funds, there was the potential 
risk he wouldnt be able to access the funds hed invested even after the five-year 
investment timeframe.  This later proved to be true. 
I dont believe Mr S had the specific knowledge  or expertise that would lead him to question 
BSFS risk assessment of the fund it was proposing. BSFS  told Mr S that it would  invest 
£21,000 in a low medium risk fund. It didnt tell him that his money was actually being 
Ref: DRN97769916invested in what  BSFS would later refer to as a high-risk fund. Mr S was reliant on the 
financial advice BSFS  provided him with in making the decision to invest. I dont think  he 
wouldve agreed to the recommended fund if hed sufficiently understood the risks 
associated with it. I believe Mr S would have wanted  to invest his £21,000 in funds that were 
actually low medium risk, rather than a fund that had been wrongly described as such.
BSFS has argued that, in advising Mr S to place 80% of his investment in a deposit fund, 
with only 20% in a UCIS, the overall investment strategy it recommended  was cautious. I 
dont agree. Although funds like the Centurion  fund may be considered suitable for a small 
part of an investors  portfolio,  generally  this only applies  where the investor is appropriately  
experienced or sophisticated.  
While reference has been made  to an investment Mr S had in property I dont think  this could  
reasonably be concluded  to mean he qualified as an investor,  with relevant or sufficient 
experience, for whom investing  20% of his money  in a life settlement fund, seeking to derive 
returns in a specialist  way was suitable. BSFS fact find described  Mr S as an ordinary 
investor. He wasnt considered to be an experienced  investor. Because of this Im not 
persuaded the Centurion fund was suitable  for inclusion in Mr S portfolio at all. While 80% of 
his money was placed in cash, I consider that the 20% invested in the Centurion  fund was 
too high a concentration of his capital in a single asset which exposed his money to 
significant risks. The fact that Mr S was partly  invested in a deposit fund this didnt materially 
alter or remove the high level of risk presented by the Centurion fund. And so, I think Mr S 
was overexposed  to risk, which resulted in the overall approach recommended being higher  
than hed wanted.
Overall, given Mr S circumstances at the time of BSFS advice I dont think  the 
recommendation to invest in the Centurion fund was suitable;  especially when considering  
Mr S age, his requirement  for partial access to the fund, his preference for no, or at most, 
little volatility to his capital, the fact that he was retired,  and that he appeared to be a 
relatively low risk investor. So I think he should be fairly compensated. But for BSFS 
unsuitable advice  Im satisfied that Mr S money  invested in the Centurion fund would have 
been invested in a low or cautious risk investment.  
As Ive already  said, due to Mr S need  to access the money hed invested in the Centurion 
fund, and because  this wasnt possible while the fund was suspended, BSFS agreed to take 
assignment of the bond holding the Centurion investment and pay Mr S the net asset  value. 
Although BSFS says that as a result  of the assignment Mr S suffered no financial loss, I 
dont entirely agree  with this conclusion. I dont  think Mr S losses, if any, can be determined  
without establishing  what the value of his investment wouldve been had he received suitable  
advice in the first place.  Consideration  needs to be given to the investment growth and 
interest Mr S may have lost out on due to BSFS recommendation. As such, Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr S.
I note BSFS disagreement with the £200  compensation  the adjudicator recommended  for 
disruption to Mr S retirement planning. The adjudicator later clarified this included  
consideration of the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr S. Broadly speaking, I agree 
with the level of compensation the adjudicator  recommended. I think  that the discovery that 
the fund he was invested in had largely fallen  in value and wasnt accessible would have 
been distressing  for Mr S. Although Mr S was able to access  funds following BSFS offer, I 
take the view that the uncertainty with his investments  wouldve still caused  Mr S some  
concern about  his retirement provision. I consider £200 fair compensation for this.
Ref: DRN97769917fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is that Mr S should  be put as closely 
as possible into the position he would probably  now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr S circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  BSFS do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  BSFS  must:
Compare the performance of Mr S investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
BSFS should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BSFS  should pay into Mr S pension plan to increase its value by the 
total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BSFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example,  if Mr S is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the reduction would  equal  the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr S £200 for trouble  and upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BSFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken  off. BSFS should  give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Centurion 
Bond 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
Ref: DRN97769918Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsend date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  BSFS should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BSFS totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr S into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr S would have 
Ref: DRN97769919invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather,  I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr S could  have obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct  Barral Sheppard Financial 
Services to pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Barral Sheppard  Financial Services should provide details of its calculation  to Mr S in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 August  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9776991