K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that he was given unsuitable advice  by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory  
Services Limited (Hargreaves Lansdown) to transfer the preserved benefits he held in a 
former employers defined benefit Occupational  Pension Scheme (OPS).
In bringing the complaint Mr D said his attitude to investment risk wasnt fully assessed  and 
he wasnt advised on a clear strategy after the transfer, to either  invest  the funds  or 
purchase an annuity.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 February 2020- a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
I said that when  Hargreaves Lansdown met with Mr D it should have realised that he didnt 
need an income until a number of issues had been  resolved.  Therefore it should  have 
advised him to wait until he needed an income, and not to transfer from the scheme  at that 
time. I thought Mr D could  then have taken benefits from the OPS when he required them.  I 
said Hargreaves Lansdown  should  undertake a calculation  in accordance  with the 
regulators updated pension review guidance.  
Hargreaves Lansdown said it accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr D also accepted the provisional decision but he did make some further points. He said he 
was concerned that all of his losses should be considered within any redress  calculation, 
and provided a list of what he thought were all of his past and possible future financial losses  
arising from the transfer out of his OPS.
He also expressed  some  concern at the possible delay  that might  occur when contacting  the 
DWP about  a part of the calculation. He submitted a copy  of a longstanding exchange hed 
had with the DWP as an example. He said that as he suffered from ill health  he couldnt 
afford a lengthy delay  and would hope  to receive  payment  within months  and not years.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions  I came to in 
my provisional decision.
With regards to the redress calculation I can understand Mr Ds concerns about ensuring  
hes compensated for all of his losses and also that payment is made within a reasonable 
timescale  particularly in light of his health.
The calculation that Ive asked Hargreaves Lansdown to undertake has been  set out by the 
regulator for the purposes of compensating consumers  who were  advised  to transfer from an 
OPS and where that advice has been  found  to be unsuitable. Its designed to put Mr D as 
close to the position hed now be in had he not been  advised to transfer his benefits.  So it 
Ref: DRN99847312should take into account all his potential  losses arising from that advice and pay him a 
capital sum to that effect.
Its also a complex calculation, usually undertaken by actuaries, so it can take time to 
complete and often  requires  input from various  other parties  including  the DWP where 
appropriate. Thats to ensure that any losses are calculated accurately to ensure Mr D is fully 
compensated. As its the regulators guidance  on how the calculation  should be carried out  
and includes  the latest updates, Im not in a position  to tell Hargreaves Lansdown to carry 
out the calculation without  the necessary input from the DWP.  My direction was simply 
about the interest that would generally  be added to the award  if it isnt paid within  a 
reasonable timescale.
But perhaps, in the circumstances, Hargreaves Lansdown could keep Mr D updated with its 
progress so that he might assist in trying to obtain  any outstanding information.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint against  Hargreaves  Lansdown Advisory Services Limited.
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory  Services Limited  should undertake  a redress calculation  in 
line with the regulators  pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of any final decision,  and using  the most
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider  promptly  following  receipt  of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of that 
decision.
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory  Services Limited  may wish to contact the Department for 
Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds contribution history  to the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These  details should  then be used to include a 
SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any past loss
(I.e. extra net income or tax-free cash Mr D would already have received from the 
occupational scheme) should be paid to him as a lump sum. The compensation in respect of 
any future loss should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making  a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN99847313For example, if Mr D would have been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already  been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable  
income only. So it would be appropriate to make  a notional deduction of 20% in full.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment should where possible be paid to 
Mr D within  90 days of the date Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services  Limited receives  
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest should be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Hargreaves Lansdown 
Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr D this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited  should  pay Mr D the £250 it has 
already offered but this should be for the distress and inconvenience caused  as a result  of 
the disruption to his retirement planning.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99847314Copy of provisional  decision 
complaint
Mr D complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Hargreaves Lansdown  Advisory Services 
Limited (Hargreaves Lansdown) to transfer the preserved benefits he held in a former employers  
defined benefit Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS).
In bringing the complaint  Mr D said his attitude  to investment  risk wasnt  fully assessed and he wasnt 
advised on a clear strategy after the transfer, to either invest the funds or purchase an annuity.
background 
In November 2014 Mr D sought advice on the options available to him in relation to a possible transfer 
of his deferred OPS benefits.  He already held a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
Hargreaves Lansdown  valued at around £59,000  which was built up from his own contributions 
and a previous transfer.
The advice to transfer  the OPS benefits was given in March 2015, on the basis that if Mr D took the 
tax free cash and purchased an annuity to provide the same type of benefits as those  of the OPS, the 
cost would  be less than the most recent cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) quoted  by the OPS  
administrators. The CETV was therefore deemed to offer value for money. 
During 2015  Mr D contacted Hargreaves  Lansdown  on a number of occasions  and because  his 
personal situation  was, in his words fluid,  he transferred the fund  which was now £306,277  to a 
SIPP. But it was held in a cash fund as Hargreaves  Lansdown said it hadnt received  any investment 
instructions.
Hargreaves Lansdown advised Mr D that he would need to apply for a flexible  drawdown plan if he 
wanted to access his tax free cash. But after initially  starting  the process Mr D cancelled the 
application. 
In 2016, Mr D contacted Hargreaves Lansdown as he had suffered some health issues that he said 
could affect his ability  to work. He said hed already transferred his fund to Hargreaves Lansdown but 
wanted some  investment advice as he believed  hed been offered the opportunity to have free advice 
at his initial  consultation. 
Mr D says hed lost faith in Hargreaves Lansdowns advice at this point and decided  to contact other 
financial advisers.  He eventually agreed to transfer the proceeds  of his SIPP  into a managed SIPP  
with another provider   using a different  adviser. He withdrew his tax free cash  sum of £91,361.62  
and invested the remainder  into a flexi access drawdown  plan with a cautious  income strategy.
In December 2016 Mr D complained about the advice hed been given by Hargreaves  Lansdown.  He 
made a number of complaint points, but the crux of the complaint was about  the advice hed been 
given. He didnt believe his attitude to risk had been discussed fully and didnt think  a proper 
comparison of his OPS  benefits against a SIPP  had been carried out. He also believed  his request for 
investment advice before and after the transfer had been ignored.
But Hargreaves Lansdown  didnt agree. It answered Mr Ds complaint  points and decided that its 
advice from 2015 was appropriate for his needs. Mr D remained unhappy  with this response, 
however, so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and initially recommended it should  be upheld. In 
summary, he said the following:
Ref: DRN99847315The industry standard for assessing the viability of such a transfer was to calculate the critical 
yield, or the investment  growth  required to provide benefits to match  those being  given up in 
the OPS. However,  as Mr D had passed the normal scheme  retirement date it was suitable 
for Hargreaves  Lansdown to compare  the cost of an annuity  that could be purchased to 
match the benefits  the OPS would  provide. The transfer value was increased from around 
£265,000 to approximately  £306,000, which supported the position that the transfer offered 
value for money.
The key aspect of the complaint was whether Hargreaves  Lansdown had advised on the 
transfer without giving consideration to the underlying investment for the transferred funds. 
Hargreaves  Lansdown had a duty of care to do so in accordance with the regulators  alert of 
January 2013 which stated suitable advice required consideration of the overall proposition  
that is the wrapper and the expected underlying investment.
Hargreaves Lansdown did not agree. It said Mr D was risk averse, and from its correspondence with 
him it was clear he said he would  purchase  an annuity within 6 to 12 months of transferring. 
Consequently there wasnt a sufficient investment horizon  to allow for a long term risk based 
investment recommendation.
After consideration of Hargreaves Lansdowns points,  the adjudicator was persuaded  to change his 
view. Looking at correspondence between the business and Mr D he considered  it was reasonable for 
Hargreaves Lansdown to conclude Mr D was risk averse and had expected him to purchase an 
annuity. Therefore, the adjudicator considered  a longer  term risk based investment  recommendation 
would not have been suitable in the circumstances.
When the complaint  was first made Hargreaves  Lansdown had offered free advice to Mr D as a 
gesture of goodwill.  That offer was not taken up. However, it subsequently offered to pay Mr D £250 
as a gesture of goodwill, which the adjudicator thought was a fair offer to settle the complaint.
Mr D did not agree with the adjudicators revised view of the complaint and did not accept the offer.  
He made the following points:
He considered the original  advice to transfer to be unsuitable  and didnt think wed considered  
that matter satisfactorily.
He thought Hargreaves Lansdown had a duty of care to him and didnt  think wed observed 
that.
Hargreaves  Lansdowns  transfer  agreement  document stated that it would take into account 
where you plan to invest, your capacity for risk and consider your needs and objectives. Mr D 
didnt believe Hargreaves Lansdown had done that. 
He said hed met with an investment adviser from Hargreaves Lansdown which wouldnt  
have been necessary if Hargreaves Lansdown were only obliged to compare his OPS  
benefits with an annuity.
Hargreaves  Lansdown didnt provide  an up to date transfer  valuation from the OPS  when it 
gave its advice.  Although it said that any higher valuations would  have reinforced its 
recommendation, Mr D noted  that along with the higher valuation came a higher projected 
annual pension from the scheme. He believes that if this had been  considered then he ought 
to have been  advised to draw those benefits along with the rest of his SIPP as this would 
have been more  advantageous for him.
Wed formed the view that he wanted to use his OPS  benefits to set up an annuity within a 
short period  of time, thereby suggesting investment advice wasnt required.  But hed made 
five separate requests for investment advice   before  and after the transfer  which  
demonstrated that he wanted advice around what he should do with his OPS  benefits. 
Hargreaves  Lansdown didnt consider  other  alternatives such as not transferring  or 
withdrawing cash from his existing  SIPP. Its advice  was focused solely on transferring to a 
SIPP and comparing the OPS benefits against an annuity income.
However, the adjudicator was not persuaded to change his opinion and made the following points in 
response:
Ref: DRN99847316The agreement Mr D signed  with Hargreaves  Lansdown stated that the advice was limited to 
the pension transfer so he wouldnt have expected Hargreaves Lansdown to advise on using  
the existing SIPP funds as an option.
An email Mr D sent in July 2015 specifically  referred to the type of annuity he was looking at 
taking out, including  the use of an enhanced facility to reflect  his health issues.  Hed also 
referred to an annuity in an earlier telephone conversation. 
The advice Mr D received from his new adviser was based on a situation which allowed  
longer term investment. But the circumstances presented  to Hargreaves Lansdown were 
quite different.  
It was reasonable to conclude, based on the information available, that Mr D was risk averse  
at the time.  And that he was more likely than not to take out an annuity shortly after the 
transfer.
But Mr D remained unhappy with this revised  outcome  and as no resolution could be found  the 
complaint has been passed  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In making his complaint Mr D made numerous points, and similarly in replying to the adjudicator he 
made several comments, including that some  of his initial  issues had not been addressed. 
I note the adjudicator has now provided  Mr D with his views and comments on those points. For my 
part, I dont need to address  every point which  has been made,  but rather  will focus on what  I 
consider to be the crux of the matter  and whether the business has made an error  and/or has given 
unsuitable advice. 
Suitability of initial advice
Mr D belonged to a defined  benefit OPS from 1981 to 1991. He approached Hargreaves Lansdown 
for advice around  his options  on transferring his deferred benefits as hed passed the normal  
retirement date and wanted to consider  the alternatives. In his savings and pensions  options 
background  document Mr D said,  in reference to his plan to travel,  possibly  accrue extra  income and 
then buy a property after three years, to achieve the above I think  I need to start drawing my 
remaining two pensions by April 2015 on a flexible basis as I am getting older and earned freelance 
income is becoming less easy  to obtain. 
So I think Mr D was willing to draw his OPS benefits, as long as it was appropriate for him to do so. 
And I think thats what he wanted from Hargreaves Lansdown - confirmation as to what was in his 
best interests with regards  to the OPS benefits. Hargreaves Lansdowns fee agreement confirmed the 
scope of its advice to Mr D as We will obtain  information from you and the administrators of your 
scheme in order to conduct a transfer analysis and provide you with advice. The advice  provided will 
look at whether the transfer value  you have  been  offered  represents good value for money  compared  
to the benefits you will be giving up as a result of the transfer. It will also compare the retirement  and 
death benefits  that your scheme provides with those you could potentially secure  if you transferred. In 
providing our advice we will take into account where  you plan to invest, your capacity for risk and 
consider your needs and objectives.
So Ive begun  by considering the suitability  of that advice because, in order to make the advice 
suitable, there  had to be reasonable potential for Mr D to be better off by transferring  his benefits. I 
believe Hargreaves Lansdown needed to show that an appropriate comparison was made  between  
the benefits that were being given up and the benefits that might be provided by an alternative 
arrangement. 
Ref: DRN99847317Hargreaves Lansdown says its advice was suitable because Mr D had given a number of indications 
that he was risk averse and indicated he wanted to take out an annuity shortly after the transfer. And 
it says if Mr D took a tax free cash sum from his pension  which he wanted to do, the income hed 
receive would have  been  around 25% higher from a personal pension  than from the scheme  pension.  
Hargreaves Lansdown says this figure would  have been even higher if it had provided  further 
illustrations for Mr D when the CETV increased prior to transferring. 
Hargreaves Lansdown also said that, as Mr D was risk averse and it expected him to purchase an 
annuity within  a relatively short period of time after the transfer, there wasnt a long enough  
investment horizon to allow a risk based investment recommendation.  So Ive looked very carefully at 
the suitability report Hargreaves Lansdown provided following its meeting  in November 2014. 
And Hargreaves  Lansdown did make it clear what it aimed to do for Mr D as stated in the report  My 
focus in this report is not to identify a suitable investment approach and (an adviser) will look at 
formulating an appropriate  investment strategy if you elect  to invest some of your funds for the long 
term via drawdown (to generate  income)  as opposed to purchasing an annuity. 
And I think it further outlined its aims  when it confirmed  Your need for more pension income really  
hinges on whether you continue  to work  but it seems clear that if you secure  one of the two jobs you 
have bid for, that you do not initially intend to draw more pension income.  If you do not get further 
work then you told me that you plan to go travelling for two years  and return to the UK to buy a 
property. However  nothing  is set in stone in this respect. You do not want to purchase  a house in the 
UK at the moment as you feel the market  is overpriced.   This would suggest to me that Mr D ought to 
have been advised not to transfer until the situation above had been properly  determined. 
So, based on the information it had gathered and recorded, in addition to Mr Ds input, Ive then 
looked at the suitability of Hargreaves Lansdowns recommendation for Mr D. 
As a general  rule a business  would  usually calculate the rate of growth  required from a personal 
pension to evaluate whether  its likely  the plan will be able to at least  match  the benefits being  given 
up on transferring from a defined benefit OPS.  But Mr D had already passed his schemes retirement  
age, so Hargreaves  Lansdown  did a calculation  to show what  CETV was required to provide an 
annuity that was higher than Mr Ds scheme pension. The conclusions  it drew  from the calculation 
were outlined in its report as follows: as it stands if you wanted to replicate the full pension income 
then the transfer value will likely fall short  of the amount  needed  to replicate the benefits  but assuming 
you wanted  to take the maximum tax free cash, then it appears better value to transfer.  
Hargreaves Lansdown based this on the fact that one provider could provide  a comparable annuity  
with the tax free lump  sum already paid  that would  cost £256,029,  which was less than the quoted 
CETV of £265,697. Hargreaves Lansdown also confirmed  that Mr D might qualify  for a higher 
enhanced annuity  due to his medical condition  and might be able to find a provider  that generally 
offered a higher  annuity for the same purchase price. So it recommended that the transfer was 
feasible  as long as Mr D took the tax free lump sum. If he didnt  want to take the tax free lump sum 
Hargreaves Lansdown said the transfer wasnt in his best interest. The report confirmed this 
However, I would stress that it is the fact that you could benefit from an enhanced annuity that makes 
the transfer feasible  and if you use drawdown then you do not benefit  from the enhancement.
Mr D wanted to look at his options and believed he would probably need to draw a flexible income by 
April 2015. But his situation  was less than clear with the possibility of further contract work and 
travelling and the likelihood of purchasing a property - all stated as objectives within  the next few 
years. So I think Mr D would have carefully considered  any recommendation that was made to him - 
but I think he would have reasonably expected that recommendation to be in his best interests. And 
bearing in mind his circumstances, I think his best interests  would  have almost certainly been served 
by which option would have  provided him with the highest income.
Ref: DRN99847318But although  its recommendation was to transfer into the personal pension  regime as this will help 
you to meet the objectives outlined, Hargreaves  Lansdown made its recommendation on the basis 
that the annuity  required  to match Mr Ds scheme pension could be provided by a smaller  fund value 
than the CETV offered.  But I dont think the comparison Hargreaves Lansdown provided  made Mr D 
fully aware of the overall position. 
I say that because, although  Hargreaves Lansdown did confirm that the transfer wasnt in 
Mr Ds interest  if he didnt  draw the tax free cash, I dont think it otherwise provided an accurate 
comparison. 
Firstly Hargreaves Lansdown didnt  revise its calculation when it became  aware that the CETV had 
increased. It said the increase would have cemented its recommendation further as that would have 
provided a higher tax free sum and most likely a higher annuity - but I dont think  it took into account  
what changes that may have  made to the scheme pension.  The scheme  administrators have 
confirmed that at the date the CETV  increased  to £306,227 (18 June 2015) the full scheme pension 
available would have  been  £15,097 or a lump sum of £63,760 with a reduced pension of £9,564.07, 
which did show an increase on the figures from the previous CETV. So, in the interests of providing  
Mr D with accurate information an updated comparison should have  been undertaken.
And I note that the scheme pension in payment increased  each year by 5% or RPI (whatever was the 
lower) whereas the transfer comparison was made against  a level annuity  so it wouldnt have been 
a fair or representative  comparison. Illustrations were provided for escalating annuities,  but these 
showed a significantly  lower  starting  income figure than the scheme  pension.  In addition,  the OPS 
increased its pension payments after normal retirement  by the use of late retirement  factors.  Ive seen 
the factors  that existed for extensions of seven  and eight years. And Ive noted how that enabled the 
scheme pension to increase  from approximately £14,800 to around £16,150 between  March 2015 and
March 2016. So again  I think  that was a relevant  factor  when comparing pension  incomes and I dont  
think Hargreaves Lansdown factored that into its comparison.  
I take the point that an explanation of these various  factors was included within the risk warnings  and 
notes contained in Hargreaves Lansdowns suitability report. But I think  that, in order to be able to 
decide what  was in his best interests, Mr D needed  this information to be included in the comparison  
to determine whether hed be better off transferring  or not. And as I dont believe he was made fully 
aware I dont  think he was in a position to make an informed decision.
Ive not seen  any documented evidence of a discussion  concerning Mr Ds attitude  to risk or about the 
potential underlying  investments  that might have been suitable in this case  although Ive noted that 
Hargreaves Lansdown assumed he was risk averse. The costs and charges of such  investments 
would have been important when  comparing  the costs of transferring against other options so I think  
that should  also have been established. And if Hargreaves Lansdown believed that Mr D needed to 
remain in cash until his situation was clearer   or he annuitised, then its not clear why it was in his 
best interests to transfer at that point in the first place. And Ill expand  on this particular point below.
What should have  happened?
As Ive said previously, Hargreaves Lansdowns  recommendation was to transfer to a personal 
pension  in cash. This was based on its assumption that Mr D was risk averse and would be buying 
an annuity quite soon after the transfer.  But notwithstanding the flaws in the comparison Ive referred 
to above, it was far from clear that this was in fact going to be the case.  
And Im not persuaded it was appropriate to make  this recommendation based on an annuity style 
comparison if the transfer  was going to be made into a SIPP and simply invested in cash. Neither  am 
I satisfied that, if Mr D was thought to have a low or no risk attitude, and the comparison of benefits  
was based upon taking tax free cash and an annuity, the prospect of entering income drawdown was 
an appropriate consideration. 
Ref: DRN99847319Mr Ds situation continued to be flexible before the transfer completed. He indicated,  in an email from 
February 2015, that he had two outstanding applications for work  and confirmed I am informed that a 
decision will be made next week  on the first one. Next week I may get decisions on the second before 
I intend  to make a decision  on crystallising  the pensions. 
So I think overall  that Mr Ds situation was unclear  around the time he met with 
Hargreaves Lansdown, and I dont think theres sufficient  evidence to demonstrate that buying an 
annuity at that point  would have been  the right thing to do. Mr Ds own evidence  points to the 
possibility of further  work being obtained in early 2015  and that he wouldnt require any further 
income. In that situation  I would have expected  Hargreaves Lansdown to consider whether its 
recommendation should  be put on hold until Mr Ds situation was clearer and he could then have 
decided what course of action best suited him. 
Ive taken into account that when Mr Ds situation  did change   he suffered health problems  when 
working abroad  he did ask Hargreaves Lansdown for investment advice. He thought  the advice had 
been offered  to him for free  which  Ive not seen any evidence to suggest was the case. But he did 
want advice  and sought it elsewhere, which  I think was because he believed  his situation was 
clearer and it was the right time for him to take his tax free cash  from the plan.  
At that time he believed his best interests were served by transferring to a SIPP and drawing on the 
tax free lump sum to boost  his other state  pension and earned income,  but thats because his 
circumstances had changed  and were clearer.  My understanding  is that, as at the time of making the 
complaint, Mr D hadnt started to take an income from the SIPP  some three years after the advice to 
transfer was given. Which, in my view,  reinforces  the point that he didnt need to take any action at 
the time of the transfer.
I think  that when Hargreaves  Lansdown first met Mr D it should have realised that he wasnt likely to 
need an income, in whatever  form, until a number  of issues  had been resolved  such as whether he 
would be awarded further employment contracts. Therefore  it ought to have advised Mr D to wait until 
it was clear when he needed an income, how much he required  and what sort of risks he was willing  
to take with his residual  funds  (after  tax free cash was withdrawn). 
And I think if Hargreaves  Lansdown had done this, it would  have transpired that Mr D didnt  need to 
transfer out of his OPS at all. As and when Mr D needed to start taking  an income, he could have 
taken benefits from the scheme, with all the advantages of the risk free, revalued pension benefits.  
Mr D has drawn on the tax free cash available  from the SIPP,  but this is because  he was already 
invested in the SIPP.  For the reasons Ill set out below,  my view is that Mr D was more  inclined to opt 
for a regular, guaranteed income. And so to bolster his other income,  he could just as well have relied 
upon funds from the other SIPP he held,  withdrawing the funds in entirety if needed under the pension 
freedoms, and maintained his guaranteed benefits within the scheme. 
Reference to annuities and risk aversion
Hargreaves Lansdown has said its recommendation was based on Mr D being  risk averse  and him 
making reference  to taking  an annuity within a short time after the transfer. It said this showed an 
investment recommendation wasnt appropriate at the time. And Ive seen evidence  that Mr D did 
refer to annuities in an email dated 23 July 2015. 
He said that he was looking to transfer the OPS to his existing  SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown with 
a view to using most if not all of the combined  fund to purchase a level annuity (65%) and an 
escalating annuity  (35%). 
And he also made reference to annuities  again  when he contacted  Hargreaves Lansdown in 2016, 
particularly as hed become aware that the annuity rates were falling and he might qualify  for 
enhanced annuities. 
Ref: DRN998473110Ive listened to the telephone conversation he had with Hargreaves Lansdown when he suggested 
that he was considering taking an annuity with 50% on a level basis and 50% on an escalating basis. 
The quotes he received  on the telephone were lower than hed seen previously and he decided that 
he could investigate this further himself.
My view is that this is highly indicative of Mr Ds attitude towards investment  risk, and I think  this is 
further underlined  by the comments  in his complaint that he still hadnt started  taking an income 
through drawdown as he thought  this might be too risky for him. So on that basis, it seems that the 
suitable course of action  for Mr D would have been to either  take the guaranteed scheme benefits, or 
a post-transfer annuity  if this was likely to have been more financially beneficial for him to do so. But 
for the reasons given, I dont think he needed to make that decision at that point in time.
summary
The very fact that Mr D continued to discuss what action  he should  take some months after the initial 
advice would suggest his situation was fluid and without  certainty.  I think that the most suitable  course 
of action would have been to wait until Mr Ds situation was clearer before  any recommendation was 
made. I think to transfer  the OPS benefits from a guaranteed  scheme, which would have paid 5% 
increases on an income and included late retirement factors which increased his scheme  pension  
each year meant the advice to transfer wasnt suitable at the time Mr D first spoke with Hargreaves 
Lansdown. 
If Hargreaves Lansdown was of the view that Mr D would have taken an annuity,  then a comparison 
with the benefits from the scheme pension, including  increases in retirement, might have been a good 
idea. But, as Ive said above, as and when that decision  needed to be made. Mr D had no need of 
either the tax free cash or annuity at that particular  point in time  and hadnt taken an income  either  
through drawdown or an annuity up to the point  of making his complaint.
For the reasons  given  above, I also dont think Mr D was in possession of all the information  he 
required to make  an adequate comparison  between the OPS  benefits and either an annuity or 
drawdown. With suitable  advice to not transfer at that point,  and if Mr D had been properly  and fully 
informed of the benefits  he was relinquishing compared to those hed receive outside of the OPS, my 
view is that Mr D would not have transferred, and instead taken benefits  from the OPS when required.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr Ds complaint  against Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services 
Limited. My provisional decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited must put 
Mr D as close to the position he would be in now had it not advised him to transfer his OPS  benefits.  
So if my decision remains the same, Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited should  
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of any final decision, and using the most
recent financial  assumptions published  at the date of that decision. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of that decision.
Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain  Mr Ds contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on Mr Ds 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
Ref: DRN998473111If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  in respect of any past loss
(I.e. extra net income or tax-free cash Mr D would  already have received from the occupational 
scheme) should be paid to him as a lump  sum.  The compensation in respect of any future  loss 
should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ds pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing
protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment into the pension  isnt possible or has protection or allowance
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making  a notional  deduction to 
allow for future income tax that would  otherwise have been  paid.
For example, if Mr D would have been yet to take a tax-free cash  sum from the occupational
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free and 75% would  have been taxed
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free cash sum from the occupational  scheme has already been taken  into
account in the payment  for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable
income only. So it would be appropriate to make a notional deduction  of 20% in full.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment should where  possible be paid to 
Mr D within  90 days of the date Hargreaves  Lansdown  Advisory  Services Limited receives  notification  
of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest  should be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes Hargreaves  Lansdown Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr D 
this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time
taken to settle  goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont apply.
In addition Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited should  pay Mr D the £250 it has already 
offered but this should be for the distress and inconvenience  caused as a result of the disruption to 
his retirement planning.
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9984731