K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained because  Vanquis Bank  Limited  increased the minimum monthly payment 
on his credit card. 
He also complained about texts  which Vanquis sent,  and the fact that he couldnt speak to 
someone as senior  as he wanted.
Mr P wants  an apology  for the way Vanquis do things; all fees removed; and he wants to go 
back to his original  monthly minimum payment amount.
background
On 18 June 2018, Vanquis sent Mr P a letter headed Changes  to your Vanquis Bank Credit 
Card Agreement. The letter said that from 17 July 2018, Vanquis  was increasing the 
minimum amount that Mr P needed  to repay  each month. The letter  said this means your 
balance should  reduce  quicker and youll pay less interest  overall. The notes on page 2 of 
the letter explained how the new minimum payment would be calculated.  
The terms and conditions,  which Mr P signed  up to when he opened his account, set out 
what power Vanquis had to change anything in the agreement. These said:
We may change these Terms and Conditions or introduce any other  related term to this 
agreement by providing you with at least 30 days written notice before any change takes 
effect. You may close your account  without having to pay any extra charges or extra interest  
at any time up to 60 days from the date of our notice if the change is to your disadvantage. 
Mr P was angry  about the changes. On 23 August he rang Vanquis and said it was putting 
him into financial difficulties. He said he was being  charged astronomic amounts. He wanted  
a manager to ring him. The adviser told Mr P that at his previous minimum it would have  
taken 25 years to repay the total amount Mr P owed.
Later, Mr P also complained about texts  he received  from Vanquis.
In its reply, Vanquis partly upheld Mr Ps complaint:
-It agreed that a text sent on 27 August, which had said Hi there! Could you let me 
know the reason  for the missed payment? had been unprofessional. It paid Mr P 
£60 compensation  for this.
-But Vanquis didnt  agree to change Mr Ps minimum payment back to what it had 
been before  the change to the terms and conditions.
Vanquis told Mr P that it hadnt intended  to cause Mr P inconvenience  with the change.  The 
purpose was to help repay the card balance faster  and it affected all customers with an 
active Vanquis account. Vanquis repeated  the options which  Mr P had:
-Mr P could  refuse the increased minimum payment,  and the account would be 
blocked so he couldnt spend  on it. Once hed paid off the balance, the account 
would be closed;  or
-Mr P could  be put on a payment arrangement  the letter  gave more details of this 
option; or
-if Mr P wanted to pay off the total balance  and close his account, he might be eligible 
for a rate reduction, but this wasnt guaranteed and depended  on eligibility.
Ref: DRN91898402Vanquis letter also noted Mr Ps arrears,  and asked him to contact its financial difficulties 
team.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He said Vanquis had upheld his 
complaint about  the text, so it knew it was unacceptable. Mr P said that because  of the 
change, he couldnt meet his monthly payment. So that contradicted what Vanquis  had said 
about the change meaning  that hed pay off what he owed more quickly.  Mr P said it 
destroyed his financial  situation and his trust in the company.
Mr P also said that:
-text messages since Vanquis final response letter  didnt say they were  from Vanquis,  
but asked for personal details, and this was a breach of the General Data Protection 
Regulations (GDPR);
-the texts had been rude;
-he hadnt had a promised call back from a senior  manager in January 2019.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said Vanquis had given Mr P the notice it 
had to. He explained that a businesss commercial decision was up to the business to 
decide, and this service  doesnt generally  interfere.  So he said he wouldnt ask Vanquis to 
change its minimum payment requirements.
In response to Mr Ps further points, the adjudicator said that its the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) which decides  whether GDPR  has been breached. He looked  
at the texts sent by Vanquis from September  2017  to March 2018. He said these were  
informal, but not inappropriate. He looked into the call back issue. Vanquis had apologised 
and said it would pay Mr P £25 for this. The cheque hadnt arrived, so Vanquis had paid Mr 
P £50 instead. The adjudicator considered this was fair.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied. He said he wanted to appeal the adjudicators findings. He said 
Vanquis complaints  department were useless,  and he was totally  disgusted  by the whole 
thing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Minimum monthly payment
Ive looked into whether  Vanquis had the power to increase Mr Ps minimum monthly 
payment. Ive set out above the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account, which say that 
Vanquis had to give Mr P 30 days notice  of a change. Vanquis did that. So Vanquis acted in 
line with its powers when it increased  the minimum monthly payment. 
I also note that Vanquis told Mr P that it had introduced this change  for all its customers  with 
active Vanquis accounts. 
So I dont  require Vanquis to change Mr Ps minimum monthly payment back to what it was.
I recognise that Mr P said he found the new minimum payment unaffordable.  Vanquis gave 
Mr P some options, which Ive set out above.  Ive listened to phone calls, and its clear  that 
Ref: DRN91898403Mr P was very angry during these. But Vanquis letters  did give Mr P contact details for its 
financial difficulties team, if he wished to get in touch about  options.
Text messages and phone calls
I agree  that the text sent on 27 August 2018 was unprofessional,  and I can see why Mr P 
was annoyed  by it. Ive considered whether £60 was fair compensation for this one text, and 
I consider that it was.
Ive gone on to look at the text messages from September 2018 to March 2019. Its clear  that 
Mr P didnt want to discuss his account  by text. He asked for phone calls.  A call was 
arranged which didnt  happen, and as Ive set out above, Vanquis paid Mr P £50 for missing 
a call and not sending the promised  cheque promptly. I find that this was fair. 
I can also see that the texts asked  Mr P for his date of birth,  which he didnt want  to provide 
by text. The situation rapidly  escalated,  and the text records show that Mr P was extremely  
angry. By early 2019 he was insisting that a Vanquis  director should ring him, or hed take 
Vanquis to court.
As the adjudicator explained,  its the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO), not this 
service, which  can make  a decision about  whether or not Vanquis  breached  GDPR by 
asking Mr P for his date of birth by text.  
I have, however, looked at the content  of the texts to assess whether or not Vanquis texts 
were rude. I dont consider that they were, and I find that Vanquis does not have to pay Mr P 
any extra  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9189840