K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Welcome Financial Services Limited (Welcome Finance) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr W was sold the policy  when he took out a loan in 2004. The loan had an amount to pay 
for the PPI. This is called  a single  premium policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
I dont think Mr Ws PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The demands and needs statement set out what the adviser discussed with Mr W. It says 
they recommended PPI, and Mr W had the choice to take it out or turn it down. Its recorded 
that Mr W chose  to include  it, and Mr W signed  the demands and needs  statement. He also 
signed a statement of price, which set out the full cost of the PPI separately to the cost of the 
loan itself, rather than as something that was necessarily included.  And his credit agreement 
described the PPI as optional. Overall, I think that Welcome Finance made Mr W aware he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it out.
Welcome Finance recommended the PPI to Mr W, so they had to check  it was right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, he 
wasnt affected by any of the policys  main  exclusions or limitations. While Mr W had some 
limited sick pay, the PPI covered him for far longer and paid out on top. And he doesnt 
seem to have had any other protection in place in case he lost his job. So I think  the PPI 
couldve been useful  for him in case something  went wrong. It also looks like the policy  was 
affordable for him.
The statement  of price  showed the cost of the policy  including  the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium, and the total cost.  And Mr W signed that statement to show  hed 
read it. So I think it was clear for Mr W how much  the PPI would cost if he kept it for its full 
term. And given how long the policy  could  have paid out for, if Mr W made a successful 
claim he couldve got back quite  a bit more than he paid for it. 
If Mr W cancelled  the policy early,  he wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI 
premium. But given  the circumstances of the sale, such as the loans purpose,  its relatively 
short term, and the lack of a history  of refinancing, it doesnt look like he thought hed repay  
the loan early at the time of the sale. And I havent seen any evidence  from the time that 
shows this was a concern  for Mr W. So I think the policy  was still probably right for him, and 
I dont think better information  about  the cancellation terms wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ref: DRN97149842Lastly, its possible that Welcome Finance couldve given Mr W clearer information about the 
things the policy wouldnt cover. But as I explained  above, Mr W wasnt  affected  by any of 
those things.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9714984