K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that she was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement with Sytner Group  Ltd. In 
particular she says that the dealership  advised her to enter into a finance  agreement for the 
full value of the car, leaving her in a position where  the car would  always  be worth less than 
the outstanding finance.
background
In July 2015 Mrs T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Blackhorse. The loan was administered by Sytner.
Mrs T says she decided  to purchase  the car because  she was struggling to afford the 
repayments on her existing agreement. She part exchanged her existing car and (after  
settlement of the outstanding finance) received £250 part exchange allowance towards  her 
new car. Mrs T paid a further £500  herself bringing  the total deposit to £750.  The total 
purchase price of the car was £9,334.00.
Mrs T believes that she was given the finance irresponsibly. She says the dealership  
advised her to enter into an agreement for the full value of the car which  has left her in a 
position where the car will always be worth less than the outstanding finance. She also says 
that prior to applying  for finance with Blackhorse she was declined by another financial 
services provider.
In response Sytner  said that the cost of purchase  and the value of the part exchange were  
clearly set out in documents  which had been signed by Mrs T. It also said the value of 
second hand cars can fluctuate and there was no guarantee that a customer  wouldnt find 
themselves in negative  equity.
Mrs T wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Mrs T had been  
provided with all of the relevant information and that she had signed  the agreement  in the 
knowledge of ow much she would be paying each month and the total amount borrowed.
Mrs T didnt  agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs T borrowed £8,584  under the agreement. The purchase price of the car 
was £9,334. So Mrs T borrowed almost the full value of the car. She says she was 
encouraged to do so by the dealership.
In considering whether theres been a mis-sale, I need to look at all of the available  
information in order to decide whats most likely to have happened.  In this case, there are no 
contemporaneous notes or telephone  recordings. I wasnt  present when the discussions took 
place between Mrs T and the dealership so I cant be certain of exactly  what  was said.  In a 
situation like this I have  to give most weight to the documents which were signed at the time 
as these are the best evidence of what the parties discussed and agreed.
Ref: DRN94760642Ive looked at the Demands and Needs Questionnaire. This is a document which  was signed  
by Mrs T on 31 July 2015. It contains  all of the important information about the finance 
agreement. 
Ive also looked  at the PCP explanation  document  which was provided to Mrs T. This sets 
out the key features of a PCP agreement. It also explained what might  happen if the 
agreement is ended  early.
 Ive also looked  at the pre-contract credit  information document. This sets out the key 
features of the agreement including the financial  details. I can see that Mrs T has signed  to 
say she was given  the pre contract information.
On balance and taking into account  the documentation which was provided  to Mrs T before 
she entered into the agreement, Im satisfied that she was provided with all of the necessary 
information. 
If Mrs T had been concerned about  the affordability  of the agreement  or about the amount of 
credit advanced to her as against the value of the car, she had the opportunity to raise  these 
issues before entering into the agreement.
Im unable to safely conclude that the dealership encouraged Mrs T to borrow the full 
purchase price of the car  in fact, she didnt borrow the full purchase price.
I appreciate that Mrs T is disappointed that the car is now worth  less than the balance due 
under the agreement. However, theres no evidence that the dealership made any 
representations as to the future  value  of the car. 
ts a matter of fact that cars depreciate and there are various factors   all of which are 
outside of the dealerships control   which affect  the value of a second hand car. Even if Mrs 
T had paid a larger deposit (and theres no evidence that she was in a position  to do so), 
theres no guarantee that she wouldve protected herself against negative equity caused by 
depreciation.
Ive taken account of what  Mrs T has said about being declined  for finance previously. 
However, lenders  have  different criteria which they use to assess  risk and affordability and in 
this case I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  that Sytner didnt carry out adequate 
checks. 
In conclusion, Ive not seen anything  to persuade me that the agreement was mis-sold or 
that the business failed  to carry out adequate  affordability checks.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN94760643ombudsman
Ref: DRN9476064