K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2007, Mr H applied  for a Bank  of Scotland  credit card in a branch meeting. At the same  
time, Bank of Scotland sold him PPI to protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to 
disability or unemployment. It also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr H disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Bank  of Scotland had to make it clear to Mr H that it was optional. 
He says it was added without his knowledge.  Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs signed credit card 
application form which included  a box indicating he wanted PPI. 
On balance, I think Bank of Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional  and that Mr H 
agreed to have it knowing he had a choice.  But its understandable  if he doesnt remember 
that now after all this time.
I think Bank of Scotland personally recommended  the PPI to Mr H. So Bank of Scotland  had 
to look into whether the policy  was right for Mr H. 
From what  Ive seen I think Bank  of Scotland took some, but perhaps not all, of the steps it 
should have but that the PPI was right for Mr H in any case. I say that because, for example: 
Based  on my understanding of Mr Hs circumstances at the time, he was eligible for 
the PPI. The PPI had certain exclusions to, or limits on, the cover  although I cant  see 
that hed have been affected by them. 
Mr H says hed only have received statutory pay if he was off work sick. The PPI 
benefits, on the other hand,  would have  covered  10% of his outstanding card balance  
for up to 12 months per claim.  The PPI covered  him for unemployment too. Given 
that, and that Mr H said he had no other means of meeting his monthly  repayments  if 
he wasnt working, I think the PPI provided  him with valuable  protection.
Theres nothing to suggest the premiums  were unaffordable for Mr H. And the PPI 
was flexible enough that Mr H could have  cancelled  it at any time,  and at no extra 
cost, if he decided  he no longer  wanted  it.
Bank of Scotland also should  have  given Mr H enough information  for him to make  up his 
own mind about whether  the PPI was right for him. I dont know that it did that but, on the 
Ref: DRN91428522same grounds I think the PPI was right for Mr H, I see no reason why better information 
about it would have put him off taking  it.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should  have told Mr H about that. Because  Bank  of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotlands  basically offered  to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think 
that offers fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Bank of Scotland should 
also pay back to Mr H any extra interest  he paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr H the difference 
between what Mr H owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland  should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9142852