K820x#14complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer,  should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to Allianz  as the seller 
in my decision.
Miss C says Allianz mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss C took out with a charge card in 1991. It was added 
to her account  when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Allianz had to make it clear to Miss C that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied to the account. Allianz has said the optional nature of the policy  was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The box has been ticked  to confirm the 
cover is required. Miss C has signed the overall  application which suggests that she agreed  
with everything that had been entered. If Miss C didnt want  to take out the PPI, she could 
have left the box blank when completing her application.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her.  
But it did have to make  sure Miss C got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible  the information Allianz gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But even if Allianz  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it 
would have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken the policy.  I say this 
because Miss C was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected  by any of the main  
limitations to the cover, such as having unusual working arrangements  or a medical condition  
of which she was already aware. Miss C mentioned a medical condition in her complaint but I 
note this did not occur until some  years after the policy was sold. 
Miss C has told us she was entitled  to some sick pay from her employer. But this policy  
could have paid 15% of the outstanding balance until she was able to return to work  or until 
that balance  was cleared   whichever came first. And this would be in addition to, and 
potentially for longer than, her full sick pay. The policy would  also have covered her for the 
same term if she was to lose her job. So I still think this policy  could have provided a useful 
benefit to her.
Ref: DRN99142332So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think Miss C has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Allianz may have done wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9914233