K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  her a number of fee-
paying packaged bank accounts.
background
Ms Gs account was upgraded to various  fee-paying packaged bank accounts on 15 
occasions between  August 2002 and March 2011.  Barclays said that our service was unable  
to consider all but the last upgrade that took place in March 2011. One of our adjudicators  
agreed that we were  unable to consider all previous  packaged bank  account  upgrades  and 
Ms G accepted the adjudicators findings. 
The complaint was then passed to another adjudicator to assess  Ms Gs complaint and they 
concluded that the Current Account Plus sold in March 2011  had not been  mis-sold. Ms G 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
As our service  is unable  to consider all previous packaged bank account upgrades,  this 
decision will only address whether the Current Account Plus,  sold in March  2011, was mis-
sold.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into account 
when deciding this complaint.
When Ms G raised her complaint with Barclays I note that she raised a number  of 
contradictory complaint  points. For example  she said she that her account had been 
upgraded without  her knowledge and that she didnt know  she was paying  a monthly fee. But 
she also said that she was pressurised into agreeing  to the account,  was told she had to get 
a packaged account to get a loan or mortgage and wasnt aware  that fee-free accounts were  
available. 
Following Barclayss final response letter, Ms G then said in our complaint form that she 
didnt know she was paying and doesnt  remember  agreeing to an account. But then Ms G 
said in our questionnaire  that she was told she would have to have the packaged account to 
have a free overdraft.
Finally in response to the adjudicators assessment, Ms G said that she was told by Barclays  
that she would not be able to continue with her overdraft unless she upgraded her account  
and that she would receive higher  charges on her account if she didnt  upgrade.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances at the time. But given the changes and contradictions 
in Ms Gs testimony,  alongside the wider evidence that is available, I cant  reasonably  
conclude that the Current Account Plus was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN90088692Prior to the sale of the Current Account Plus Ms G had upgraded her account to packaged 
bank accounts  on 14 occasions. Ms G also occasionally downgraded her account back  to a 
fee-free account,  sometimes  in the same  month  that the upgrade had happened. And in the 
months prior to the sale of the Current Account Plus Ms G had an agreed overdraft limit of 
£1,950 and this limit remained the same when  the upgrade to the Current Account Plus took 
place.
So Ms G was clearly aware that fee-free accounts  were available, that packaged bank 
accounts were optional and that having an overdraft was not dependent upon having a 
packaged bank  account. Therefore, when Ms G agreed to upgrade her account, I think she 
did so knowing it was optional and that she could continue with her fee-free current account  
without losing her overdraft facility if she wanted to.
Barclays says that it recommended the Current Account Plus to Ms G. This means Barclays  
had to make  sure it was right for Ms G. 
At the time,  the Current Account Plus cost £5 per month and provided a £300 interest free 
overdraft benefit  with a reduced interest rate (compared  to a fee-free account) on balances 
overdrawn by more  than that amount. It also provided mobile phone insurance,  extended  
warranty, cardholder protection and Identity  support advice helpline.  
Given the extent  of Ms Gs overdraft  and the frequency that she was using it, I think  Ms G 
wouldve been able to save a reasonable amount of overdraft interest  by having the Current 
Account Plus.  And payments on the statements from the time suggest that Ms G had a 
mobile phone as well, so I think its likely that the mobile phone insurance  couldve  also been 
of use to Ms G. I appreciate that Ms G might not have needed all of the other benefits of the 
account, but as it was sold as a package so Ms G couldnt pick and choose what  benefits it 
came with. So looking at Ms Gs circumstances at the time,  I think that Barclayss 
recommendation was not unreasonable in the circumstances.
As well as making sure it was right for Ms G, Barclays also had to give Ms G important 
information about the account. I accept that Barclays may not have  given Ms G all of the 
information it shouldve.  But Ive not seen  anything about Ms Gs circumstances that makes  
me think that she wouldve been  put off from agreeing to the account had she been given 
more information  about it.  
Finally Ms G says that she was told that if she didnt upgrade  shed receive higher overdraft 
charges. But I think its likely  that this point relates to the fact that the overdraft benefits on 
the account would mean  that Ms G would pay a lower amount of overdraft interest  than if her 
account remained as a fee-free account. And I can see that Barclays sent Ms G a letter on 8 
March 2011 i.e. the date her account was upgraded, that made it clear that Ms G would pay 
no interest on the first £300 of her overdraft and then 18.93%  on any overdrawn balance  up 
to her limit (£1,950). So I think this letter wouldve  clarified any uncertainty Ms G mayve  had 
about how shed  be charged if she were to use her overdraft on her Current Account Plus  
and yet she chose  to keep the account. So I think that Ms G understood what the overdraft 
benefits on the account were and agreed to the account because of them. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Current  Account Plus was mis-sold. I 
therefore dont  think it would be appropriate to require Barclays to refund Ms G any of the 
account fees she paid for it.
Ref: DRN90088693my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9008869