K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc didnt call her back to discuss  an issue  with her 
current account.   
background
Mrs H is a customer of Lloyds  and has a current account with them.  During a call with Lloyds 
Mrs H says Lloyds agreed  for a manager to call her back on 2 April 2019,  but this never  
happened. Mrs H also raised concerns about  information Lloyds gave her in a letter  and 
during a call.
Lloyds looked  into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  said that were  unable to 
agree a call back had been  arranged  for that date. Lloyds also said theyre unable  to provide 
call recordings  in CD format as requested due to security. As Mrs H didnt  agree she brought 
her complaint here.  
Lloyds issued a second final response and partially upheld Mrs Hs complaint. Lloyds agreed 
theyd incorrectly said Mrs H had agreed  the information in her data subject access  (DSAR) 
was correct. Lloyds  also said when Mrs H spoke with them over the phone she was 
incorrectly told shed received a call from Lloyds on 7 June 2019. Because  of these errors 
Lloyds paid Mrs H £100 compensation.  
Our investigator reviewed  Mrs Hs complaint and found that Lloyds had only looked at one 
call Mrs H had. However our investigator was unable to find any calls where Lloyds had 
promised a call back on 2 April 2019. Our Investigator explained that while Lloyds had made  
a couple of errors they felt the £100  compensation was fair. Because of this they didnt 
recommend to uphold  this complaint.  
As Mrs H disagreed the complaint  has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has raised  multiple complaints with Lloyds due to the experience shes had over a few 
months. As the complaints have been raised  separately weve  also had to deal with them 
separately, but essentially they all relate  back to Lloyds  not sending  Mrs H her account 
statements. 
Mrs H has made a number of detailed points. I can see a lot of the points  relate back to Mrs 
H not receiving her account statements. As this has been addressed  in another complaint it 
wouldnt be appropriate to consider  them here. In this complaint I will be focusing on the 
complaint about  Lloyds  not calling Mrs H on 2 April 2019, and the incorrect information given 
which was referred to in Lloyds  final response dated  25 June 2019.
Ive listened to multiple calls Mrs H has had with Lloyds around April 2019. Im unable to find 
any agreement from Lloyds to call Mrs H back on 2 April 2019.  There  are however two calls 
with Lloyds on 2 April 2019, in these calls Lloyds do agree  to look into questions Mrs H 
raises and get back to her. I can also see there is another call between  Mrs H and Lloyds on 
6 April 2019. 
Ref: DRN93283112From listening to the calls on 2 April 2019  Mrs H raises her concerns with Lloyds not 
responding to her DSAR in time. There isnt any mention of expecting  a call back that day. 
From all the calls Ive listened to Im unable to agree Lloyds  said theyd call Mrs H back on 2 
April 2019. So I dont  think  theyve  done  anything wrong here.   
Ive also considered the incorrect information given to Mrs H. In particular that Lloyds wrote 
to Mrs H and incorrectly  said shed accepted the contents of her DSAR. They also incorrectly 
said over the phone theyd called Mrs H on 7 June  2019, when they hadnt. Lloyds has 
agreed these were errors and paid Mrs H £100  compensation.  
Given the multiple contacts between Mrs H and Lloyds I can understand why some  
information gets confused  and incorrect information  is given. Im also satisfied  that £100 for 
the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience caused by these  two errors is fair and 
reasonable. For this reason I wont be telling Lloyds  to do anything  more to put it right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9328311