K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt made  a fair settlement offer for his motorcycle  
following a claim on his motorcycle insurance policy.
background
Mr Gs motorcycle  was written off following  a non-fault accident. Ageas has valued the 
motorcycle at £15,500. Mr G says motorcycles of similar condition,  age and mileage to his 
cost £16,900.  And he says his motorcycle had added features which  cost around £1,600. So 
Mr G complained to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Gs complaint didnt  uphold it. She thought  Ageas offer 
was fair and in line with its obligations  under Mr Gs insurance policy.
Mr G strongly  disagrees. He says his motorcycle was taken  from him through  no fault of his 
own and he wants it replaced  seamlessly  with a like-for like model. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Mr Gs motorcycle insurance policy. This says if Mr Gs motorcycle is 
damaged, Ageas will settle his claim by sending him a cheque for the amount of the loss or 
damage. It goes on to say it will not pay any more than the market value of his motorcycle at 
the time of the damage less any excess that may apply  unless theres  an agreed value in  
Mr Gs policy  schedule (and there was no agreed value). Mr Gs policy says the market 
value of his motorcycle  is the cost of replacing it with another  of the same make, 
specification, model,  age, mileage and condition of his motorcycle  just before the loss or 
damage.
I should say my role in looking at Mr Gs complaint  isnt to place a value on his motorcycle.  
Instead, its to decide  if Ageas offer is within a fair and reasonable range.  We think  the 
fairest way for an insurer  to decide the market value for a motorcycle  is to look at the main 
motor industry guides. We think these  are persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures rather  than, for example, advertised  
prices. But we also accept  there  are fluctuations  in the valuations  these guides give, 
because placing a value  on a motorcycle isnt an exact science.
After Mr Gs motorcycle was written  off, Ageas had it inspected  by a third party engineer.  He 
valued the motorcycle at £15,500.  In his report, he noted his valuation  was the same as the 
industry guide Glasss  retail valuation of a motorcycle  of the same  type, condition and 
mileage as Mr Gs.
Mr G disputed the settlement amount. He sent Ageas a copy of his purchase receipt, details 
of the modifications  that had been made  to it before he bought  it and copies of recent  
adverts for similar motorcycles, all priced at just under £17,000. So Ageas asked the 
engineer to re-consider  his valuation.
Ref: DRN93707372The engineer said the value of the equipment added to the motorcycle  before Mr G bought  it 
was lower than the standard equipment usually fitted to these motorcycles. He said hed 
looked at both Glasss and CAPs  guides  (which gave valuations of £15,500 and £14,595 
respectively as at August 2018) as well as adverts  for similar motorcycles from an auto trade 
website. He was of the opinion that no increase in his valuation  of Mr Gs motorcycle was 
justified.
The investigator who looked at Mr Gs complaint says she also looked at Glasss guide 
which gave a valuation  of £15,500.  And she says she looked  at another guide,  Cazana, 
which gave a valuation  of £14,494.
I understand Mr G wants a settlement sum that enables him to buy a like-for-like  
replacement motorcycle. I can understand why Mr G wants  this. But, as Ive already said, I 
dont think its what the terms  of his motorcycle insurance policy say hes entitled to claim for. 
So I agree with our investigator that, by offering a settlement figure that was in line with a 
valuation given by a third party engineer and with the valuations given by two of the main 
motor industry guides, Ageas acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of Mr Gs 
motorcycle insurance policy.  
I understand Ageas has already sent Mr G a cheque for £15,500. It follows  that I dont think  
Ageas needs  to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9370737