K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that the charges  applied by ReAssure Limited (formerly Windsor Life) on his 
investment (a unit linked endowment) are excessive. Hes unhappy that the charges have 
impacted the growth of his investment.  
Background  
Mr S took out his policy in 1983. As part of the administration of the investment, ReAssure 
applied a charge called an annual  management  charge (AMC).  
 
In February 2019,  ReAssure sent an annual statement to Mr S  this provided information 
about the monetary value  of the AMC that was deducted each month  from his premiums. It 
also provided him with the opportunity to switch funds to allow  him to pay a lower AMC. Mr S 
contacted ReAssure because he thought the AMC was excessive. He asked for a refund of 
the charges he paid from the point the opportunity to switch funds became available. He also 
immediately switched his investment to different funds  to reduce the AMC he was paying.  
ReAssure responded and said that the decision  to allow funds switches had only been  made  
recently. It also said it wasnt under  a contractual obligation to allow fund switches.  
Mr S was unhappy with the response  he received and felt ReAssure were reluctant to tell 
him when  fund switches were first introduced. He felt he had lost out by paying a high AMC 
because less of his premium was going  towards his investment. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020   I didnt uphold the complaint. This is what I 
said:
 
Ive firstly looked at the terms  of the policy that applied when Mr S took out his investment. 
The policy was invested in a unit linked managed fund. Ive looked to see whether the policy  
allowed Mr S to switch his investment to another fund. I havent found anything  to suggest 
that this possibility was part of the contract  that Mr S took out. 
During our investigation of the complaint, ReAssure has confirmed that it made a 
commercial decision to allow policyholders like Mr S to switch  funds.  So, the fact ReAssure 
decided to allow Mr S to make funds  switches is a reasonable  decision to take and wasnt to 
his detriment. It has confirmed it made  this decision  in June 2018 and chose to inform  
individual policy holders on the anniversary of their policy  in Mr Ss case  this was February 
2019. 
Ive considered the comments Mr S made about the historic statements he was sent. 
Particularly, he has referred to the February 2003  statement containing  information  about the 
funds available. He says this suggests  that alternative funds were available  much  sooner 
than 2018. Having reviewed this statement, I dont  agree that this is strong evidence to 
support that Mr S could have switched sooner. The information in this statement is general 
and doesnt make any specific comment about  Mr Ss ability to switch funds. I havent seen 
anything else to suggest the decision to allow fund switches was made earlier  than June 
2018. So, unless  anything further evidence is provided,  I think its most likely this was the 
first time switches were  available  on Mr Ss policy. 
What seems to be at the heart of the matter is the timing of when ReAssure told Mr S about  
the ability to switch funds. I do understand Mr Ss view that he would  have switched funds at 
the earliest possible time in order to increase the allocation rate of his premium.  And I can 
Ref: DRN96479232see this is what he did when he found out. But this is a situation that concerns the 
commercial decision ReAssure made about  how to inform  Mr S about  a change to the terms 
available to him. Reassure, didnt contractually have to allow Mr S the chance  to reduce the 
AMC through fund switches. This commercial decision gave Mr S more choice with his 
investment, both in terms of funds available and charging structure. So, the fact it didnt tell 
him immediately, doesnt make me think the decision on timings was clearly  unfair.  Overall,  I 
think that ReAssure  has exercised  its commercial judgement legitimately and treated  Mr S 
fairly and reasonably.
Both Mr S and ReAssure  accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to 
make.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party as provided any further  information or arguments for me to consider, I see 
no reason to change  the findings  from those  set out in my provisional findings. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think ReAssure  have  treated Mr S unfairly in 
the way it has administered his policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9647923