K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed  representative  
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background 
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage  on interest only terms when they took advice from L&G.  
Acting on that advice  they re-mortgaged to another lender, consolidating a secured loan to 
the new mortgage. The new mortgage was on repayment terms.
Mr and Mrs C are now represented by a claims management company (CMC). It says the 
mortgage was mis-sold  to them because they should have stayed with their existing lender  
and not have consolidated the debt. It says they shouldnt have been advised to add the cost 
of a will to the mortgage  and that the broker  over-charged them and didnt treat them fairly in 
the recommendation of a solicitor it made. 
L&G didnt agree the mortgage was unsuitable.  It offered to refund mortgage interest 
charged on the will and commission  the broker had received from the solicitor, together with 
£250 compensation. Our investigator  thought  that was a fair offer so the CMC  asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the fact find taken at the time  and the CMC hasnt suggested it was 
inaccurate  Mr and Mrs Cs previous  mortgage was on interest only terms. They had an 
endowment policy in place but had been  told to expect a significant  shortfall.  In that context I 
think recommending  a re-mortgage to repayment  terms  was a sensible course of action and 
I dont think it was unsuitable advice.
The CMC says Mr and Mrs C could have  asked their existing lender to switch  the mortgage  
over. They could  I dont  know whether or not they did, or what the previous  lender would 
have said if they did. But at the same  time Mr and Mrs C also wanted  a new interest  rate. 
And as by switching their mortgage to repayment  their payments would increase, they also 
consolidated a secured loan (though not their credit cards) to keep the increase in overall 
outgoings down   so they needed to borrow more  money too. In the circumstances, I dont  
think it was unreasonable for the broker to look across the market for a competitive 
mortgage.
Overall, therefore, I think this was suitable advice. It put Mr and Mrs C in a better  position,  
with a new fixed rate and the certainty  their mortgage would be paid off at the end of the 
term  and although their outgoings increased,  overall they did so to a management level.
However, I agree there was no need  to add the cost of the will to the mortgage balance,  
leading to interest being charged over the life of the loan. I think L&Gs  offer in respect of this 
and the commission  is fair. But I dont think it needs  to refund any of the fees the broker  
charged. The fees were clearly explained to Mr and Mrs C. While other brokers may charge 
less, or structure their fees differently, theres no obligation to charge in a particular way. 
Ref: DRN94474672Mr and Mrs C understood  what they would be charged and received the service they paid 
for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a reasonable offer to settle this complaint. Once its paid what  it 
has offered, I dont require it to take any further  action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9447467