K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited (HL).  Hes 
unhappy with the service  he received  when  he transferred pension  funds to a HL Self 
Invested Pension Plan (SIPP).
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 29 January 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
Mr H had three pension  funds he wanted  to transfer to a SIPP.  One was a Personal Pension  
Plan (PPP).  Mr H also had deferred benefits  in two Occupational Pension Schemes (OPS). 
Ill refer to these as the VBS scheme and the CG scheme.
Before deciding which SIPP provider to transfer his funds to Mr H met with a financial 
adviser who Ill refer to as Adviser F, in March 2017. Adviser  F produced a report in 
October 2017 which recommended Mr H transfer  his pension funds to the SIPP 
Provider Adviser F was linked to. Ill refer to this as Provider  F.
Mr H reflected on his options and later made  enquiries with another SIPP  Provider. Mr H 
had several calls with HL regarding the matter in late 2017.
Mr H later chose  to open a HL SIPP and requested the appropriate documentation. 
He completed an application for HLs SIPP and this was accepted  in December 2017. 
The transfer process of Mr Hs funds  to HL began.
On 11 January 2018 HL wrote to Mr H regarding the transfer of his CG scheme benefits. It 
said it had received information from the schemes administrators which suggested Mr H 
had valuable  benefits that could be lost if transferred to its SIPP.  HL said it wanted to 
ensure Mr H was making an informed  decision  about  the transfer so asked that he seek  
financial advice comparing the benefits of the CG fund with those of the HL SIPP. HL said 
that if the advice Mr H received recommended  the transfer it needed confirmation of this in 
writing and the details  of the adviser  he consulted. HL confirmed it wouldnt proceed with 
the transfer of Mr Hs CG fund until it heard from Mr H. It also said that if Mr H had already 
taken advice that he should  send  it the details of his adviser.
Further to HLs letter  Mr H contacted HL on 15 January 2018. He spoke to a number of HL 
representatives and in summary the following areas were discussed:
Mr H queried  when  the transfer of his funds  to HL would be completed
HL confirmed that his PPP fund had been sent and would take several days to arrive
HL explained  it had received information  regarding Mr Hs CG scheme benefits which 
suggested he had an AVC (Additional Voluntary Contributions) fund linked to a 
Defined Benefit  (DB) scheme. So it needed written confirmation Mr H had received 
positive advice to transfer
Mr H said hed taken advice and made  HL aware  of this previously. He was unhappy 
this hadnt been  recorded
HL confirmed the need  for positive advice was its own requirement  and not a 
regulatory requirement
Mr H discussed the matter of paying his outstanding adviser F fees from his HL SIPP
On the same  day Mr H formally complained to HL. He said HL had caused avoidable delays 
in the transfer  process and he was missing  out on investment opportunities as a result.  Mr 
Ref: DRN91208832H explained hed had conversations with HL between October and December 2017 and 
confirmed hed received positive advice  about transferring his funds to a SIPP.  He asked 
why HL hadnt asked him earlier to confirm  hed received advice and said this shouldve 
been raised on the SIPP application form he completed. Mr H also said hed never been 
made aware  of the need for confirmation of advice to be able to transfer his funds to an HL 
SIPP. And finally he complained HL had previously confirmed advisory fees could be paid 
from his SIPP and sent him a pro forma letter to arrange this. He couldnt understand why 
HL was now suggesting this wasnt possible.
HL wrote to Mr H on 17 January 2018. In summary it said:
Mr Hs VBS scheme was in the process  of being disinvested  before it was 
transferred to HL. VBS administrators had estimated this would  take 12-15 working 
days to complete and a further 3-5 working days for the money to reach HL
it had received Mr Hs letter confirming hed taken financial advice along with the CG 
scheme discharge paperwork. This had been processed and the completed form 
sent to the CG scheme administrators  that day with the transfer request
it understood Mr Hs frustration about  not being  able to pay adviser Fs outstanding 
fee from his SIPP  but wouldnt be changing  its position
Following this Mr H called HL on 19 January  2018.  Several discussions took place and Mr H 
again expressed his dissatisfaction  with HLs stance  regarding advisory fees being paid 
from his SIPP. He asked repeatedly for an explanation to be provided but remained 
unhappy with HLs responses.
Mr H wrote another letter of complaint to HL on 19 January 2018. He raised similar points 
to those hed raised  before but in summary he also added:
he felt HLs insistence he take advice was illogical given that it refused to allow his 
SIPP funds to be used to meet his advisory fees
HL had been unhelpful,  unresponsive and unwilling to answer his questions
hed called HL posing as a prospective  SIPP client  and been  told advisory fees could  
be paid from funds  transferred to a HL SIPP
hed chosen  a HL SIPP because of recommendations and its superior online 
investment platform and thought it wouldve welcomed his pension  transfer. Instead 
HL had done much to frustrate and delay  it
if HL resolved his complaint satisfactorily  and confirmed the advisory fee could  be 
paid from funds  transferred into his SIPP  he would  transfer  a personal pension he 
held in May 2018 as well as shareholdings he had to an HL Individual  Savings 
Account (ISA)
Mr H also called HL to discuss  his complaint  points  a number of times. HL responded with 
the same  explanations it had provided  previously. During a call on 19 January 2018 with HL 
Mr H said he wanted his transfers to be stopped. HL explained this would be difficult  given 
that three  companies  were involved and it was almost 5pm,  but it would see what it could do.
Correspondence between  HL and Mr H continued.  The same issues  regarding the fund 
transfers, delays, the SIPP and payment of advisory fees were discussed.
HL provided its final response  to Mr Hs complaint on 24 January 2018.  In summary it:
Ref: DRN91208833reiterated that HL only permitted advisory fees to be collected  from its SIPP  where 
there is a legal obligation for advice to be taken. As Mr H confirmed  he received 
advice in October 2017, prior to applying to transfer to HL it wouldnt agree  for fees 
to be collected  from Mr Hs SIPP. And HL was under no obligation to do this
couldnt locate  the call where Mr H said HL guaranteed advisory  fees could be paid 
from his SIPP
had reached a decision at board  level and asked Mr H to not contact  its Helpdesk  to 
discuss the matter any further  as there  was no merit to doing  so
hadnt been able to identify any delays caused by HL
given Mr Hs dissatisfaction it asked that he transfer to another  provider
Mr H responded to HL and said he felt fobbed off as a proper response still hadnt  been 
provided by it. He said HL had a responsibility to openly address the issue of advice early in 
the transfer process and the secondary issue of the payment of fees needed to be better 
explained to clients. Mr H explained that hed spoken to the administrators handling the 
transfer of his CG fund and theyd confirmed HLs letter of 11 January 2018  and a direct call 
on 19 January 2018  halted their preparation to disinvest and to transfer his fund to HL. It 
was only when Mr H reassured  the administrators that he wished to proceed  that they 
restarted their work on the transfer.
On 26 January 2018 HL responded to Mr H. In summary it said:
its email of 24 January 2018  was its final response to his complaint
it was satisfied it was under no obligation to provide the service Mr H was asking for 
and its position  wouldnt change
further to Mr Hs request on 19 January HL had contacted the administrators 
handling the transfer of his CG fund to establish whether Mr Hs transfer could  be 
halted. As explained  in its message of the same  date, no instruction  to stop the 
transfer was given to Mr Hs existing  provider and it was up to him whether he 
wished to cancel the transfers
it had acted on Mr Hs requests in good  faith
an impasse had clearly been  reached and it reminded Mr H that apart from the 
transfers already  initiated it wouldnt accept any further business  from him. It asked 
that he find another pension provider within 3 months of 24 January 2018 and 
confirmed it wouldnt charge its standard transfer out fees
Mr H responded to HL on 27 January 2018  saying he wasnt  willing  to accept  its request that 
he take his business elsewhere. He said HLs request was disproportionate and unjustified. 
And that as HL had accepted his application to open  a SIPP  there were no reasonable 
grounds for it to refuse to accept his investment in accordance with the existing agreement.
HL replied to Mr H on 29 January 2018  and said it had taken the decision  to ask Mr H to 
transfer to a different provider based  on his comments and evident dissatisfaction. HL 
explained it reserved  the right to withdraw services  where it believed there was a valid 
justification as was the case  here. HL said it hadnt taken its decision lightly,  but said the 
relationship it had with its clients  was based on mutual trust and in light of recent  events it 
would be in both parties interests if Mr H found another  provider. HL concluded  it was 
mindful Mr H would be disappointed with its decision.
Unhappy with HLs response Mr H referred  his complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN91208834Following Mr Hs referral  of his complaint to our service there  were  the following  
developments:
a marketing letter was sent to Mr H saying HL wanted to keep him as a customer.  Mr 
H contacted HL following this saying he was pleased  HL had changed its position so 
he wouldnt be returning the SIPP transfer  forms that had previously been sent to 
him. He said his complaint about the delay in the transfer of his CG pension 
remained and asked  HL to admit responsibility for this
HL responded  to Mr H and confirmed the marketing letter  shouldnt  have been sent 
to him. It said its position remained  the same as before and asked Mr H to transfer  to 
another provider
Mr Hs SIPP account was blocked and HL refused  to accept any further investment 
instructions from him
HL also asked Mr H to transfer  his Fund & Share  account and ISA elsewhere
One of our investigators  considered the matter. He didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint because 
he hadnt seen  anything to suggest  HL had said Mr Hs advisory fees could  be paid from his 
HL SIPP.  He also said HL had given reasonable notice to Mr H of its intention to close its 
SIPP account.
Mr H responded and in summary said:
his complaint turned on whether HL was justified in rejecting one of his three pension 
fund transfers on 11 January  2018. He didnt think  it was
HL caused  the delay  in the transfer of his funds
hed completed  a HL SIPP application form in December 2017.  As he was aware of 
the importance of demonstrating hed received pension  advice  hed sent HL a copy  
of the advice hed received on 28 December 2017 to avoid  any delays in the transfer 
process
Mr H had discussed the advice hed received with HL in December  2017  before 
completing his SIPP  application
the administrators of his CG pension had confirmed  HLs mistakes had delayed the 
fund transfer to HL
the matter had caused him nerve-wracking uncertainty  and anxiety
he still felt HL were  acting unreasonably asking  that he close  his account
HL had accepted his application to open  an ISA account which seemed 
unreasonable and inconsistent given  it wanted him to close  his SIPP account
The investigator considered what Mr H had said but his view remained the same. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Having done so, Im intending to partially 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the extensive arguments  and comments made,  I have limited  my response to 
the issues I consider  to be central to this complaint. That is to say:
Ref: DRN91208835whether HLs stance on the payment of Mr Hs advisory fee from his SIPP was 
reasonable in the circumstances
whether HL did anything wrong regarding the transfer of Mr Hs pension funds and in 
particular whether HLs stance on the requirement for Mr H to have received a 
positive recommendation to transfer was reasonable in the circumstances
whether, in the circumstances, HL is unfairly and inappropriately requesting that Mr H 
transfer all of his accounts with it to another provider
what, if any, compensation is due to Mr H from HL for what  has happened
whether HLs stance on the payment of Mr Hs advisory fee from his SIPP was 
reasonable in the circumstances
Mr H is unhappy HL wouldnt allow him to pay his advisory fee directly  from his HL SIPP. He 
says HL misled him about this and said it would  be possible. Mr H also feels  hes been 
disadvantaged and inconvenienced  as a result. He says because  of HLs position on the 
matter he unexpectedly had to pay the advisory fee (around £4,000)  from his own cash  
resources.
HL says it never told Mr H his advisory  fee could be paid from his SIPP. It has explained the 
payment of advisory  fees directly  from a SIPP isnt something it would permit in Mr Hs 
circumstances. Specifically it says that that as Mr H chose to take advice  before  requesting  
the transfer of his funds it wouldnt allow him to pay his advisory fee in this way. In addition 
to this it has confirmed  that once it became  clear  that the advice Mr H had received related 
to him taking  out a SIPP with another provider it confirmed the payment  of a fee for this 
advice would not be permitted from Mr Hs HL SIPP.
I havent seen  anything in HLs SIPP terms and conditions which  refers  to the payment of 
advisory fees directly  from a SIPP. In particular I havent seen anything which suggests this 
is permitted. Nor do I think this is something  HL is obligated to allow Mr H to do. 
Nevertheless, I do have to consider whether HL misled Mr H regarding  this in any way and 
whether hes been negatively  impacted as a result. 
Mr H has referred  to a call he had with HL on 8 January 2018 where he says he was told he 
could pay his advisory fee from his SIPP. I note that while Mr H does mention in the call that 
hed like to pay the advisory fee from his SIPP (and HL confirms this is possible) he didnt 
explain that the advice hed received (for which he wants to pay the fee from his SIPP) was 
in relation to a SIPP with another provider and not HLs own SIPP.  HL says that on the basis  
of what was understood in this call it sent Mr H a pro forma  letter  to facilitate the payment of 
the advisory fee from his SIPP. However once  it was clear what  the exact  nature of the 
advice Mr H had received was, HL confirmed this wasnt something it was prepared to allow 
him to do. I also note that the form HL sent to Mr H did say:
Ref: DRN91208836() Please accept this letter as evidence that I have received advice in favour of 
transferring my []  Defined Benefits Pension  Scheme to my HL SIPP.  As part of this 
advice I have agreed to pay my financial adviser,  [..] an initial adviser  fee of £.
Based on this I think Mr H ought  reasonably to have  been aware that what  he wanted to do 
may not be possible.  
I can understand Mr Hs frustration that he was sent a form which  indicated  hed be able to 
pay his advisory fee from his SIPP. But on the basis of the information Mr H gave  HL at the 
time I dont  think this was unreasonable. HL could only answer  Mr Hs queries based on 
what it understood at the time and I think it did so in good faith.  Its no doubt unfortunate Mr 
H was under the impression following his conversation with HL that hed be able to pay his 
advisory fees from his SIPP and that a form was sent to him which seemed to support this. 
But I hope that its clear  now why this wasnt possible.
Its not the role of this service to tell HL how to operate regarding  when it permits advisory 
fees to be paid from its SIPP. But having carefully  considered the matter and on the basis  of 
the available  evidence Im not persuaded HL has acted unfairly in this respect. I think its 
decision not to allow the payment of advisory  fees from its SIPP where the advice received 
(and to be paid for) relates to an arrangement with another  provider is reasonable. 
I know Mr H feels  hes been misinformed by HL. Especially as he also says he has friends  
whove been able to pay advisory  fees from their own SIPPs with HL. I can only comment  on 
Mr Hs case but I should  clarify that HL hasnt said it would never  allow the payment of 
advisory fees from its SIPP, simply that this depends on the circumstances of each case. 
In a letter to HL on 19 January 2018  Mr H said he called HLs helpdesk  posing as a 
prospective SIPP client. He says that during  the call HL confirmed advisory fees could be 
paid directly from its SIPP. I dont think this helps Mr H and it doesnt change  my opinion  on 
the matter. I understand Mr H was very frustrated at the time because  he felt HL was giving 
him incorrect information but I dont think it was appropriate for him to pose as someone else 
in order to prove this. Again, any information HL provided to him during this call would have 
been based on the details  Mr H provided.  I havent seen anything to suggest  it gave Mr H 
incorrect or contradictory information based  on what it was told at the time. Nor can I find 
that Mr H was misled when in fact he was pretending to be someone  other  than himself.
Overall, having carefully considered the matter I dont think  HLs stance  on Mr Hs advisory  
fee and payment of it from its SIPP is unfair.  I appreciate how unhappy Mr H is with this but 
this is a legitimate  exercise of HLs commercial decision. And so its not something  Im able 
to interfere with. I also dont think HL carelessly  or intentionally misinformed  Mr H regarding 
its stance on advisory  fees. As Ive already explained I think the information  HL did provide 
about this was reasonable and appropriate  in the circumstances. 
For the reasons  Ive outlined I dont intend  to direct HL to make any award to Mr H in respect 
of its stance on advisory fees and their payment from his SIPP.  
whether HL did anything wrong regarding  the transfer of Mr Hs pension funds  and in 
particular whether HLs stance on the requirement for Mr H to have received  a positive  
recommendation to transfer was reasonable in the circumstances
Ref: DRN91208837Ive looked first at HLs advice requirements. Mr H has complained that HL incorrectly 
delayed the transfer of his CG pension to its SIPP. He says it was wrong to do this on the 
basis that it didnt  think hed received the necessary advice to transfer  because  he had. He 
also says he made  HL aware of this several  times  in October/November 2017 and it 
shouldve made  sure this was recorded  at the time.
I think it would be helpful if I first outlined HLs position on pension  transfers.  The Key 
Features and Terms and Conditions documents Mr F was provided with and agreed to when 
he applied  for a HL SIPP  said:
Defined Benefit, e.g. final salary,  pension schemes () This can include money purchase 
schemes with guarantees () deferred annuities () an Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(AVC) linked  to a defined benefit  scheme () We normally insist  you take advice to confirm 
it is in your interests to transfer such pensions ()
Pension Transfers () [HL] may require you to take advice from a pension specialist before 
we will accept a Pension Transfer from certain types  of pension scheme.
So in a situation where a customer wants to transfer pension benefits to a HL SIPP  which 
are of the nature of those  outlined above,  HL would  generally require a customer  to receive 
a positive recommendation  saying it was in their best interests to transfer to its SIPP.
Defined Benefit  (DB) OPS schemes typically have valuable benefits and guarantees. 
Giving these up and subjecting future  pension income to the risks associated with 
unpredictable investment  returns  (as in a SIPP) should only be done  where  it can be shown 
that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. Its a regulatory  requirement that to 
transfer safeguarded benefits  from DB schemes, financial advice must be taken. 
In addition to this its also HLs policy to ask a prospective client to take and receive  advice in 
favour of the transfer of DB benefits  to a product with it before  it will allow the transfer  to go 
ahead. This isnt a regulatory requirement but a decision HL is entitled to make. So if Mr H 
wasnt happy with HLs position on this he had the option if transferring to another  provider 
which didnt have HLs requirements.  
Given what Ive outlined  above I dont think HLs position regarding advice was 
unreasonable. Im also satisfied Mr H was made  aware of this before he applied  for a HL 
SIPP. Indeed  I note that on 27 November  2017 when HL provided Mr H with its SIPP 
application form it said:
Please note, transfers of Defined Benefit pension schemes can usually only be accepted  
once you have received advice in favour  of the transfer.
Mr H had three pension  funds he wanted  to transfer  to a HL SIPP. One was personal 
pension and the two others were OPS pensions.  Mr Hs CG fund was AVC-DB linked. Mr Hs 
VBS fund wasnt, it was Defined Contribution based.
I think HL reasonably managed Mr Hs expectations  at the outset  around  the transfer of his 
funds. I note that on 2 January 2018  it wrote to him, confirmed it thought his PPP fund could 
be transferred without any issue but did say:
Ref: DRN91208838For your [VBS pension] you will receive discharge  forms  () please complete and return  
these as soon  as possible. For your [CG pension] we have requested  the necessary plan 
details from your existing provider in order to proceed with your transfer. Once these are 
received we will review the details  that they have provided and contact you in the event of 
any issues ()
On 8 January  2018 I can see that the scheme  administrator for Mr Hs CG fund wrote to HL 
saying it was aware the HL SIPP couldnt automatically accept a transfer from an AVC-DB 
linked scheme. It confirmed this was the case for Mr Hs CG fund and asked HL to confirm 
whether it would still accept the transfer.
Once HL was made aware of the exact  nature  of Mr Hs CG fund it wrote to him on 11 
January 2018  and said:
You recently  requested to transfer the [CG fund] to your [HL SIPP]. We have  details from [the CG scheme 
administrators] which show your plan contains potentially very valuable guarantees or benefits that would be lost 
if it were transferred to [a HL SIPP] (). [HL] does not want clients to lose out by transferring where  this is not in 
their best interest  () and would like to make  sure they are making a fully informed decision. 
In order  to properly compare the benefits of your existing  scheme with those of the [HL SIPP], we would ask that 
you seek financial advice. Once you have done so, if the advice recommends the transfer  we would ask you to 
confirm this in writing and provide the details  of the adviser you have  consulted  ()
We will not proceed with your transfer  now.  If you have  already taken advice please send us the details of your 
adviser as detailed above.  You should also enclose  any transfer forms you may have  for [the CG fund].
I think HL did all that was required  in the circumstances to appropriately inform Mr H at the 
outset of its stance on DB transfers  and once it was clear that one of the pension funds Mr H 
wished to transfer was DB linked that it reasonably  (in line with its terms and conditions) said 
it needed him to have  received a positive recommendation  for the transfer to go ahead.
Based on what Ive outlined above about  HLs stance on DB transfers it seems to me the 
fact Mr H had previously  received a positive recommendation to transfer to a SIPP  with 
another provider  and that he says he made HL aware of this in October/November 2017 is 
irrelevant. The advice  Mr H received didnt relate to transferring DB benefits  to HLs SIPP so 
Mr H didnt meet HLs requirement regarding this.
I should also say that Ive seen nothing to suggest any discussion took place in late 2017  
between Mr H and HL specifically about  Mr H receiving a positive recommendation from 
Adviser F regarding the transfer of funds to a SIPP. Mention seems to have been  made  of 
the SIPP provider  adviser F is linked to being another provider Mr H is considering because 
of lower charges.  But there was nothing specific discussed about advice relating to the 
transfer of the CG scheme benefits. I think that if Mr H had specifically  discussed  the CG 
scheme  and the fact it was DB linked at the time,  HL wouldve in all likelihood made him 
aware that the advice hed sought wouldnt  be sufficient as it wasnt relevant to the HL SIPP 
he wanted to transfer to. 
I dont think HL couldve known that it required confirmation Mr H received favourable advice 
until it was fully aware of the exact nature of the benefits Mr H was intending to transfer to it. 
Ref: DRN91208839Unfortunately the fact that one was AVC-DB linked meant that the transfer had to be halted 
until HL was satisfied  favourable advice  had been received in this respect.  
Mr H has said he has no objection to HL requiring favourable financial advice in the 
circumstances and he understands  the importance  of this. But he says HL ought to have 
made its position on transfers like his and the required  advice clear  at the outset. But based 
on what Ive seen I think HL did make it sufficiently clear that where there  was a transfer 
from a DB scheme HL would insist that favourable advice was received regarding the 
transfer to its SIPP. Indeed  Mr H signed the declaration  which confirmed hed read the Key 
Features and terms and conditions which outlined HLs stance regarding this. Because  of 
this Im unable to conclude HL did anything  wrong  in the way Mr H has suggested regarding 
this.
Im aware that Mr H feels  HL shouldve  asked for information  about the nature of any advice 
he received on his SIPP application form but this simply isnt HLs process. As not all 
consumers will have or be able to provide full details for their pensions  I dont think  its 
unreasonable that HL doesnt ask for all details regarding this on its application form. Instead 
it relies on the details it gets direct from the scheme provider which  is best placed to confirm 
the exact nature of a consumers pension. The SIPP application  Mr H completed did say Mr 
H was giving HL authority  to get the required information it needed about his pensions  from 
the relevant parties. I think this was reasonable  and something HL presumably did to make 
its customers experience  easier.
While Im satisfied  that HLs requirement regarding a positive recommendation to transfer 
DB linked funds to a SIPP with it is fair and reasonable,  it appears to me that HL did 
unfortunately cause  some  avoidable confusion and frustration to Mr H regarding  the matter.
In a letter to HL on 15 January 2018  Mr H confirmed I personally decided to open a [HL 
SIPP] rather than follow the advice of [adviser F] to open a SIPP  [with provider F]. Mr H 
made it clear  to HL at this point that he hadnt received a positive recommendation to 
transfer his funds to a HL SIPP as HL required.  So its unclear to me why following this letter  
HL wrote to Mr H on 16 January 2018 saying Thank you for providing discharge  forms and 
confirmation of favourable  advice to transfer your [CG pension] to a [HL SIPP]. We will now 
request the transfer monies.
I think HL caused  avoidable confusion and contradicted itself regarding  its stance  on DB 
transfers here. 
In the first instance  HL had said it needed  Mr H to have  received a positive recommendation 
to transfer his CG pension to its SIPP.  When Mr H confirmed he hadnt,  HL then said it could 
go ahead  with transferring his CG fund to its SIPP. This seems contradictory given what HL 
says its stance on transfers of this nature  is. 
Its unclear why HL allowed the transfer  to go through without the advice it said it needed  but 
given Mr Hs unhappiness  and the fact this minimised  further  delays (as Mr H wouldve 
otherwise needed to get a positive  recommendation from a financial adviser  saying 
transferring his CG fund to a HL SIPP was in his best interests) I think  that in the 
circumstances this was probably the pragmatic thing to do. However as Ive previously said I 
Ref: DRN912088310recognise that this will have added to Mr Hs confusion and frustration. And I think its 
appropriate Mr H receives compensation for this. 
Mr H has said HL delayed the transfer of his pension funds to its SIPP. Hes specifically 
referred to the transfer of his CG fund which he says HL delayed by a week  because it 
incorrectly said he hadnt received the appropriate  advice. Ive already considered  and 
addressed this above so wont repeat my position  on the matter. But I should  say that I 
havent seen anything to suggest HL avoidably delayed the transfer of Mr Hs CG fund in the 
circumstances.
Im also mindful that at points when he was deeply frustrated Mr H did express to HL his 
wish for the transfer  of his funds to be halted/cancelled. I think  this added to the confusion  
there already was surrounding what was going on. Thankfully despite HLs efforts to make  
enquiries about and action Mr Hs requests (and then change them when  Mr H confirmed he 
actually still wanted  the transfer  to go ahead)  it doesnt appear that any significant  delays 
were caused  as a result.  
whether, in the circumstances, HL is unfairly  and inappropriately  requesting  that Mr H 
transfer all of his accounts with it to another provider
Turning now to what appears to be Mr Hs main concern- HLs request that he transfer  all of 
his HL accounts to another provider.  In addition to a SIPP Mr H also holds a Stocks & 
Shares ISA and a Fund & Share  Account with HL.
I think the following  facts  are particularly relevant regarding this matter:
Mr Hs SIPP was opened  and the transfers  of his pension  funds completed  were 
completed as follows:
PPP- 15 January 2018
VBS OPS  DC-linked  fund-  29 January 2018
CG OPS DB-linked fund- 30 January 2018
Mr Hs Fund & Share account  was opened on 29 January 2018. And his ISA was 
opened on 5 September 2018  
HL first asked Mr H to transfer his SIPP to another  provider  on 24 January  2018 and 
subsequently on 19 September  2018
HL later asked Mr H to transfer  his SIPP and other accounts away  from it on 19 
September 2019
Mr H is unhappy with HLs request for a number of reasons. To summarise he says:
he doesnt understand why HL is insisting he transfers and doesnt think HLs request  
is fair or reasonable
he doesnt understand why HL allowed him to open an ISA with it after it asked him 
to transfer to another provider
he wishes to remain a HL customer
Ref: DRN912088311HL has provided  it reasons for requesting Mr H transfer to another provider. In summary  it 
says:
Mr H repeatedly refused to accept information provided by its agents
it operates on the basis of trust and Mr Hs refusal to accept its position made an 
ongoing relationship impossible 
it was clear Mr H was unhappy with the service HL provided  so it felt it was beneficial 
to all parties involved for Mr H to transfer away and it would  waive the applicable 
transfer fee to help him do so
Based on what HL and Mr H have said my conclusions  are outlined below. For simplicity Ive 
captured these  under  relevant headings.
HLs decision to ask Mr H to transfer  all of his accounts with it to another provider
It clear to me Mr H is very unhappy  that HL is requesting he transfer  all of his accounts  to 
another provider.  Hed like to remain with HL and has said that since the transfer  hes been 
happy with the service  HL provides.
But HLs terms and conditions are clear  on the matter and allow HL to take the decision not 
to retain  Mr H as a customer. They say: () our agreement may be terminated by us with 
immediate effect, at any time, by giving written notice ().
Im also unable interfere  with what I consider to be a legitimate exercise of HLs commercial  
decision. Businesses are entitled to choose  who they conduct business  with, in the same 
way a customer can choose between different providers. However Im mindful that any 
decision taken by HL regarding who it retains  as a customer must be done  in a fair and 
reasonable way. And thats what Ive considered  here.
Overall and having given careful thought to everything provided  and said I dont think HLs 
request that Mr H transfer his accounts to another provider  is unfair  or unreasonable.  Ill 
explain why.
HL has said one of its reasons  for asking Mr H to transfer his accounts to another provider is 
that he repeatedly  refused to accept  information  and explanations provided  by its agents. 
This caused prolonged and protracted  dialogue.  HL has also referred  to a call Mr H made to 
it where he pretended to be a prospective  client. HL interpreted this as an attempt by Mr H to 
manipulate its agent to provide incorrect information.
I can understand why HL no longer  feels a positive working relationship with Mr H is tenable 
in light of this. 
Im satisfied Mr Hs prospective client call occurred. What seems  to be in dispute is HLs 
interpretation of Mr Hs intention in this call. I dont  doubt Mr H was genuinely concerned at 
the time that HL wasnt providing him with correct  information. But I dont  think posing as 
someone other than himself was appropriate  action  to take.  I can understand HLs issue  with 
this, particularly as it says its relationship with its customers is based  on a level of trust which  
it considers Mr H flouted when he made the aforementioned call. 
Ref: DRN912088312I should say that I dont  think  Mr H made the prospective client call to intentionally deceive 
HL but I can see how it has unfortunately been  interpreted this way. So while I appreciate  Mr 
H feels HLs decision  to ask him to transfer  his accounts seems  extreme,  Im unable  to 
conclude in the circumstances that its unfair  or that HL has acted unreasonably.
Im also mindful having reviewed Mr Hs correspondence with HL that its clear HL did 
repeatedly confirm what its position was regarding the payment of advisory  fees from a HL 
SIPP. It seems  to me that because Mr H wasnt happy with HLs responses  he refused to 
accept what he was being told and continued  to challenge HL. I dont think  challenging HL in 
the first instance was unreasonable  but given this was happening on a repeated basis where 
an agreement clearly  couldnt be reached  I can understand why HL reached  the decision  it 
has.
I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration in some of his calls and email exchanges with HL, 
especially where it appeared  to be providing what he felt was illogical  or contradictory  
information. But Im also mindful that there  are also quite a few occasions where what  HL is 
trying to explain things  to Mr H and the information  its conveying is correct, but Mr H 
becomes annoyed  because  he doesnt agree HLs processes  and approaches are 
acceptable.
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr H and recognise  how important it was for him to consolidate 
his pensions. And when he thought HL was unreasonably  preventing this he became upset. 
But I must also have regard for HLs position.  
From the available evidence its clear  to me HL has put a lot of time and resource into trying  
to answer Mr Hs concerns and queries.  Unfortunately attempts by both parties  to reach  an 
agreement havent  been successful. And I dont think thats because of either party has 
intentionally been difficult, unhelpful  or obstructive.
Its unfortunate that the incident  which tipped  the scales (the prospective  client  call) may 
have been due to a misunderstanding. But its fair to say that on the evidence Ive seen the 
breakdown in relationship between HL and Mr H appeared possible- sooner or later. 
I dont think this has been an easy situation in which to try to strike the right balance.  
HL has made repeated  attempts to resolve the situation as has Mr H. Sadly  the relationship 
has broken down. I realise this is deeply upsetting for Mr H but I dont have the power to 
force HL to retain Mr H has a customer.
I dont think HLs decision has been  taken  lightly  or that its concerns are without merit. 
I understand that in asking Mr H to transfer  all of his accounts to another provider HL has 
said it will allow Mr H to do so without the application of a transfer fee. In the circumstances 
this seems fair. I am mindful of Mr Hs concerns  about how much time he will be given to do 
this. I think a period  of three months from the date of my final decision would be reasonable-
especially given how long the transfers took when Mr H originally transferred to HL. I note 
that Mr H has already said he considers this timescale to be reasonable
Ref: DRN912088313Mr H has said that transferring to another Provider will cost him money in terms of higher 
charges and missed  investment opportunities with HL. I have sympathy for Mr H but I dont 
think this is something HL is responsible for. Mr H, feeling very strongly about what  
happened with his transfer chose  to engage with HL regarding his complaint in a way that 
made HL feel it could no longer provide its services to him. This is unfortunate but I dont 
think this means HL should be liable for all of Mr Hs costs/losses that arise from him having 
to transfer elsewhere.  And Im mindful  that in Mr Hs case HL has waived the transfer fee 
that would  usually apply. 
HL allowing Mr H to open  a Fund & Share account and ISA after  it requested he 
transfer all his accounts to another  provider
I can see Mr Hs Fund  & Share account  was opened on 29 January 2018 prior to the 
completion of the transfer of Mr Hs pension funds to HLs SIPP.  I dont find anything odd 
about HL allowing Mr H to open this account  at the time as this took place before HL asked 
Mr H to transfer elsewhere. But whats unclear to me is why HL allowed Mr H to open  an 
ISA, after it had already  advised him it no longer wanted him as a customer. 
Ive asked HL to explain why this happened and it has said, The ISA was opened from 
monies that were  sold from [Mr Hs] Fund & Share  account. As he was not adding new 
money to his HL account, the instructions were  processed accordingly. 
I dont think HLs explanation here is reasonable. While HL is permitted to decide whether  it 
continues to let Mr H use its services,  its required to apply this decision sensibly. I dont 
think HL did this when  it allowed  Mr H to open an ISA with it. Indeed HLs behaviour in the 
circumstances appears contradictory- on the one hand it says it no longer  wants  to keep Mr 
H as a customer and on the other hand  it allows him to open  a new account with it. 
Again, not wanting to keep Mr H as a customer is a decision  HL is entitled to make.  But I 
think that in allowing Mr H to open an ISA after HL asked  Mr H to transfer  elsewhere  
provided Mr H with conflicting and confusing information about its stance on the matter.  
It seems  to me HLs inconsistent actions gave  Mr H false  hope  that it had changed its 
position on wanting him to transfer  elsewhere.  And this was compounded by HLs error when 
a letter  was sent to Mr H (again after hed been asked to transfer away) stating HL was keen 
to keep him as a customer. I think this caused Mr H avoidable frustration and loss of 
expectation and consider  HLs actions regarding  this to have been careless albeit not 
deliberate. Im mindful that HL did correct Mr H when  he contacted it saying he was happy it 
had changed its position. 
Given how stressed Mr H already was with the situation at the time, I can see why some of 
HLs actions would have  made an already difficult situation worse. As I mentioned above I 
think its appropriate Mr H receives  some compensation for this. Overall  I think £200  for 
trouble and upset  caused would sufficiently recognise what  has happened here.
I invited Mr H and HL to comment  on my provisional decision. 
Mr H responded and in summary said:
Ref: DRN912088314he was disappointed and dismayed by my conclusions
he wanted to contest my decision that he should  move all three of his accounts  
with HL within three months
his case highlighted  that we didnt have  power  to prevent a large financial services 
firm from closing a clients account  just weeks after it had accepted the client, even 
if the firm concerned had acted  unfairly  and unreasonably
he wanted to remain a client of HL and wanted  me to  ask HL to revoke its request 
that he transfer his SIPP away from it
he proposed contacting  the FCA but he wouldnt  do that if HL agreed  to retain him 
as a client
Id erred in asking  him to close all three of his accounts (SIPP, ISA and Fund  & 
Share Account). HL had asked him in January 2018 to close his SIPP. HL didnt 
ask him to close the other two accounts.  They werent opened until later in 2018. 
HL had allowed  him to open those two accounts  after the dispute had been 
referred to us. HL didnt  have  reasonable grounds for requesting that he close 
those accounts.
Id allowed HL to change the nature of the dispute after the complaint process had 
begun. I shouldnt accede to HLs unreasonable revised request to force him to 
close all three  accounts  
HL was entitled to start proceedings to force him to close  his ISA and Fund  & 
Share Account but it shouldnt be allowed to conflate these with issues regarding 
his SIPP  complaint with our service  he should be allowed  to keep his ISA and 
Fund & Share Account  otherwise  that was procedural unfairness.  
he took issue with what  he considered  my highly partial selection of evidence 
and acceptance without comment on what he considered was HLs withholding 
of telephone evidence
my provisional decision had rewarded HL for its incompetence and unfair 
treatment with a trivial compensation award  of £200. He thought the level of 
compensation I recommended was derisory and wouldnt compensate him for the 
time, cost and risk hed face if he had to move all of his accounts to another  
provider. His SIPP included a large holding that couldnt be transferred in specie 
so his funds would be uninvested during the transfer  period - £200  didnt  begin  to 
cover the risks of transferring in SIPP holdings, let alone the trouble and upset
HL responded  and in summary said:
it accepted  it may have inadvertently  caused  Mr H some  confusion by allowing him 
to add money to an ISA with it
whilst  it had overlooked Mr Hs confirmation  that the advice he received  was to 
transfer to a SIPP with Provider F rather than the HL SIPP it didnt think this had 
caused Mr H any distress or inconvenience. However it accepted my provisional  
decision to award Mr H £200 compensation and was prepared  to make the 
payment to resolve matters
regarding Mr Hs request to remain a HL customer, its position  remained 
unchanged. It still required Mr H to move his SIPP and other  accounts  to another  
provider
Ref: DRN912088315my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part for the reasons Ive given. However Ill respond to some of the points the 
parties have made following my provisional  decision. 
Id first like to reassure Mr H and HL that while I wont be responding to every single point 
made, I have  carefully considered all that has been  said. For simplicity Ive summarised the 
relevant points in response to my provisional decision below and provided my responses 
following this.
Mr H wants to contest  my decision that he move all three of his accounts with HL 
within three months
To be clear, my (provisional) decision  wasnt that Mr H must move all three of his accounts 
(his ISA, SIPP and F&S account).  I said I couldnt interfere in what  I considered  to be a 
legitimate commercial decision by HL. It was HL who has decided (in accordance  with its 
terms and conditions of business) that it doesnt  wish to retain Mr H as a customer. While the 
outcome is the same  for Mr H  in that he will have to close  his accounts with HL  the 
decision was HLs.  And, despite Mr Hs unhappiness, I could understand how HL had 
reached that decision. Thats still my view.
Mr H considers that Ive allowed HL to change the nature of his complaint since he 
referred it to this service. He says  this constitutes procedural unfairness
Specifically Mr H says that by allowing HL to force him to transfer his ISA and Fund & 
Share Account away from HL after he referred  his original complaint to our service, his 
complaint hasnt been handled correctly and theres been procedural  unfairness. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said but Im unable to agree  for a number of reasons. 
To be clear, I should first say that Im not allowing  HL to require  Mr H transfer his ISA and 
Fund & Share Account  away  from it. As I explained  in my provisional  decision I have no 
power over HLs decision regarding this.
I also dont consider that Ive allowed HL to change the nature of Mr Hs complaint since it 
was referred to this service in such a way that constitutes procedural unfairness. The 
complaint Mr H originally referred  to this service related  to his SIPP. However  Mr Hs dispute 
and correspondence  with HL continued  while  his complaint was with us. During this time HL 
allowed Mr H to open an ISA and Fund  & Share Account with it before it later requested  that 
these accounts  as well as his SIPP be transferred away. HL made this request  directly as a 
result of the issues that had arisen  regarding  Mr Hs SIPP. As such the matter  of the transfer  
of Mr Hs ISA and Fund & Share Account are inextricably linked to his SIPP  complaint.  So it 
wouldve been remiss of me not to comment on HLs actions regarding Mr Hs ISA and Fund 
& Share  Account as well as his SIPP. 
Im also mindful that Mr H did refer the issues he was having  with HL and his ISA and Fund 
& Share  Account to me along with to his SIPP complaint. Indeed  he said:
Ref: DRN912088316() HL asked me in writing to close not only my SIPP account (first requested in January) 
but also my Fund and Share account and my ISA account () I consider this moving the 
goal posts while the ombudsman is considering her decision completely unfair () Clearly, 
as a major  contributor  to the funding of the FOS,  HL expects or assumes that the decision 
will go in its favour.  Of course, I hope  that it is disappointed. If the ombudsman does find in 
HLs favour  I hope she will insists that HL allows a three  month period from  her  final 
decision and insist  that HL allows me to keep my ISA and Fund and Share account. [Mr Hs 
emphasis]
When a complainant has raised  several  issues it doesnt automatically follow that theyre  
dealt with in separate complaints. A decision on whether to deal with all of the points in one 
complaint or more  than one involves a variety of different  considerations  including  the 
similarity of the points  made, the number of businesses involved and the wide-ranging  
implications of creating  more than one complaint for everyone involved. 
Im satisfied Ive considered Mr Hs complaint pragmatically  as Im obliged by statute (in 
addition to the Dispute Resolution rules) and on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and 
reasonable. So I think it was both procedurally  fair and lawful  for me to address all of the 
relevant issues I did in my provisional  decision. I dont think  Mr H has been  deprived of 
natural justice or due process as a result of this. Thats particularly the case  when, as Ive 
explained, I cant interfere  with HLs decision  not to retain Mr H as a client. 
Mr H would like to remain  a client of SIS
I understand Mr H feels strongly that he should  be allowed to remain  a client  of HL. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision  HLs terms and conditions allow  HL to choose whether 
or not it keeps Mr H as a customer. This is also a legitimate exercise of HLs commercial  
judgment. And therefore not something  I have  the power to interfere with. So my role here 
isnt to tell HL to keep  Mr H as a customer (or direct it to revoke its request that he transfer 
his accounts away) but to look at whether HL has reached this decision in a fair and 
reasonable way. Having  considered the matter carefully I didnt think  HLs decision was 
unfair or unreasonable. And having  reviewed  the matter again,  my view remains  the same.
Mr H isnt happy  Im allowing  HL to require  that he transfer all the accounts  he holds 
with it away
Mr H has expressed  real concern about the impact  of HLs request that he transfer his SIPP, 
ISA and Fund & Share Account to another provider. Hes explained how challenging this 
process will be, given  the nature of some  of his investments  and referred to the potential  
financial implications. 
As Ive explained above I dont have the power to decide whether  or not HL requests Mr H 
transfer his accounts to another provider. So Im not allowing HLs request, in the same  
way Im not able to direct it to revoke  its request.
I understand the transfer of Mr Hs accounts  away from HL wont  be an entirely 
straightforward process. And thats  why I said in my provisional decision that HL should 
allow Mr H three months from the date of my final decision to complete this transfer.  Im also 
Ref: DRN912088317mindful that this in line with what Mr H suggested would be acceptable in his 
correspondence to this service:
If the ombudsman does  find in HLs favour,  I hope she will insist that HL allows  a three 
month period  from her final decision.
Mr H has concerns about the way Ive approached the evidence in his complaint
Mr H has taken issue with what he considers to be my partial selection  of evidence, my 
failure to challenge  HL over its untruthful allegations  and my acceptance without comment  
of its withholding of telephone evidence. 
Im sorry  Mr H feels this way. But I can assure  him and HL that Ive carefully considered  all 
the available  evidence in this case and reviewed everything that has been said. However, 
the purpose of my decision isnt to address every point thats been made and refer to every 
piece of evidence   its only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. It doesnt 
automatically follow that if I havent  referred  to a piece of evidence  or point that Ive ignored 
it. No discourtesy is intended by this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our service. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or piece of evidence  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Im sorry  to learn Mr H is frustrated by what  hes has described  as my failure  to challenge HL 
over its untruthful allegations. But as Ive outlined above it isnt my intention  or the purpose 
of my decision to address  every allegation or argument. I have focused on what is relevant. I 
should also say that while I reviewed this complaint, in addition  to carefully considering  the 
available evidence I also made substantive requests  to the parties involved for information 
and responses to the key issues relevant to Mr Hs complaint.
I dont accept Mr Hs claim that HL has withheld telephone evidence.  The absence  of a call 
recording does not automatically demonstrate that it has been withheld. Moreover, HL has 
explained that the call Mr H has referred  to couldnt be located.  Ultimately, where evidence is 
inconclusive or contradictory, I have to reach  a decision on the balance  of probabilities; that 
is, what I consider is most likely to have  happened, given  the evidence  that is available and 
the wider surrounding circumstances. And thats what  Ive done in this case.
Mr H doesnt consider the £200 compensation I recommended  to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances
Mr H has said the £200 compensation  I intend to direct  HL to pay him is derisory  and trivial.  
Specifically he says its loose change  for HL and doesnt cover  the risks and costs  hell face 
having to transfer his accounts away from HL. I should perhaps clarify  that it isnt the role of 
this service to punish a business. Awards for trouble  and upset arent  a scientific measure  
nor are they intended  to act as a deterrent or punish  a firm for its mistakes and/or 
wrongdoing. Instead, such  awards  are a broad reflection of the impact  a firms acts and/or 
omissions may have  had on a complainant.
Ref: DRN912088318It seems  Mr H is particularly concerned about  the time and trouble hell be put to and 
possible investment  loss he may have to suffer if he has to close his accounts   in particular 
hes mentioned  a large holding in his SIPP which cant be transferred  in specie. 
But, as outlined in my provisional decision, the compensation I intend to direct  HL to pay Mr 
H is to reflect the following:
It seems to me HLs inconsistent actions gave Mr H false hope that it had changed its 
position on wanting him to transfer  elsewhere.  And this was compounded by HLs error when 
a letter  was sent to Mr H (again after hed been asked to transfer away) stating HL was keen 
to keep him as a customer. I think this caused Mr H avoidable frustration and loss of 
expectation and consider  HLs actions regarding  this to have been careless albeit not 
deliberate. Im mindful that HL did correct Mr H when  he contacted it saying he was happy it 
had changed its position. 
Given how stressed Mr H already was with the situation at the time, I can see why some of 
HLs actions would have  made an already difficult situation worse. As I mentioned above I 
think its appropriate Mr H receives  some compensation for this. Overall  I think £200  for 
trouble and upset  caused would sufficiently recognise what  has happened here.
The £200  compensation  is not meant to reflect the costs and risks Mr H says are associated  
with transferring his accounts to another provider. As I said in my provisional decision:
Mr H has said that transferring to another Provider will cost him money in terms of higher 
charges and missed  investment opportunities with HL. I have sympathy for Mr H but I dont 
think this is something HL is responsible for. Mr H, feeling very strongly about what  
happened with his transfer chose  to engage with HL regarding his complaint in a way that 
made HL feel it could no longer provide its services to him. This is unfortunate but I dont 
think this means HL should be liable for all of Mr Hs costs/losses that arise from him having 
to transfer elsewhere.  And Im mindful  that in Mr Hs case HL has waived the transfer fee 
that would  usually apply.
I remain of the view that £200 is an appropriate and proportionate award for trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr H.
However, I should also say that Mr H doesnt  have to accept my final decision or the level of 
compensation Ive awarded. If he doesnt  accept  my final decision, it wont be final and 
legally binding on him or HL. It may be open  to Mr H to pursue this matter  through  the courts  
if he wishes to do so.
Mr H has mentioned contacting the regulator.  Its a matter for him if he wishes  to contact the 
FCA.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order to resolve  this matter I order 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay Mr H £200  for trouble and upset 
caused.
Ref: DRN912088319Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9120883