K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining about the adverse  information  Ikano Bank AB (publ)  ( Ikano) has 
recorded on his credit file
background
Mr H took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano, with monthly payments by direct  
debit. Ikano were unable to take the payment in December 2016. This incurred a charge 
and a letter  confirming  this was sent out. Mr H contacted Ikano and made the payment.  
Later in January the letter was returned to Ikano marked as gone away.  This incurred a 
further charge  and the account  was marked accordingly. Mr H later contacted  Ikano and 
gave them his new address.  
Mr H has complained to Ikano that his late payment had been recorded on his credit file. 
He said he was told this wouldnt  happen.  Ikano reviewed the complaint and confirmed 
the gone away marker had been removed, but said it couldnt remove  the late payment 
marker, as this was an accurate reflection of what happened with his account. It did 
waive the charges  incurred  caused  by the late payment and returned letter.  
Mr C remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to this service. He said it was unfair  
this information  was on his report,  and it was affecting his ability  to get a mortgage. 
The investigator looked into the case and concluded  that Ikano hadnt done  anything 
wrong. The information on Mr Hs file was correct. She listened  to the call recordings 
provided and couldnt  find any evidence that Ikano had told Mr H otherwise.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and requested an ombudsman  look at the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Hs loan statements and can see that the December payment wasnt 
made on time. I know that Mr H did make  the payment, but it was made late. Therefore  I 
cant say that the information Ikano shared with the credit reference agency  was wrong. I 
can also see that where information  was updated,  such as Mr Hs new address,  Ikano  
amended the record appropriately. 
I acknowledge that Mr H says he was told the late payments  wouldnt be recorded, but 
from listening to the relevant  call recordings,  I cant see that this was the case. 
I understand that Mr H has said the marker  on his credit report is affecting his ability  to 
get a new mortgage, and I do sympathise. However, where information about the 
management of an account is reported to a credit  reference  agency,  there  is an 
obligation on the business,  in this case Ikano, to make sure it is fair, accurate complete 
and up to date.  From what Ive the business  has done that. Therefore, I cannot fairly ask 
Ikano to do anything  further. 
Ref: DRN98850952my final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before xxxxx.
Sarah Holmes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885095