K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed him to over pay into his regular 
saver account. Hes also unhappy that he couldnt  immediately open  another regular saver 
account when  his existing savings account  matured.
background
Mr G opened a regular  saver account  with HSBC on 17 November 2017, and he set up a 
standing order for £250  to credit the account on a monthly basis.  The accounts interest rate 
of 5% would be paid be on the anniversary of the account opening  12 months later.  
In February 2018,  Mr G incorrectly set up another standing order,  which  meant a further 
£1,350 was crediting his regular saver  account.
Mr G realised his mistake  in May 2018 and arranged for the over payments to be returned  to 
his current account.  But Mr G was annoyed  that HSBC  had allowed  him to pay over and 
above the £250 monthly limit.  He  raised his concerns with HSBC  it said it wasnt  sure why 
hed been able to overpay but that it looked like the matter had been  sorted.  
In early November 2018, HSBC contacted  Mr G to let him know  his regular saver  account 
was due to mature.  And it explained what would happen to the funds in the account when it 
matured on 17 November  2018. 
Mr G said he tried to open another regular saver account on 17 November  2018,  but he was 
unable to do so. He said he tried every  day to open the account, but he wasnt  able to 
successfully do so until 23 November  2018. Mr G contacted HSBC  to provide feedback on 
his experience.
Mr G remained  unhappy and so brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked at the complaint and was of the view that HSBC had acted fairly. She said because  
HSBCs systems dont  allow it to place upper limits on payments, Mr G was able to make 
overpayments. She was satisfied that as Mr G hadnt suffered financially as a result  of this, 
HSBC didnt need to do anything else. 
She said Mr Gs initial  application for a new regular saver account  was unsuccessful  
because his existing  regular saver account was still open, and HSBC only allows  customers 
to hold one regular saver  account  at a time. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators findings. He said HSBCs processes shouldnt allow 
overpayments to be made. He said the money  he overpaid couldve been earning  interest  in 
another savings  account. And that his new regular saver couldve been earning  interest  from 
17 November 2018. He said hed tried every  day from 17 November 2018 to open a new 
regular saver account but it was only successful on 23 November 2018. He explained  his 
wife had been able to open another regular saver  account on the same  day her previous 
account matured.  Because  Mr G disagreed,  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN99904342my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
over payments
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC allowed him to make monthly payments to his regular saver 
account above the £250 monthly limit. Some of the concerns hes raised in respect of this 
are hypothetical, so I wont be commenting on these  - Im concerned  with what  actually 
happened in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Mr G made  payments greater than £250  for a few months. But upon realising this, he 
arranged for the overpayments  to be withdrawn from the account, and the account returned  
to the balance it wouldve been had he only paid £250 per month. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for his account and they explain  that overpayments  
can be made and what  happens if they occur:
If youve  saved more than the maximum monthly balance,  well pay interest on the 
excess amount at the Flexible Saver interest  rate that applies to that amount.
So Im satisfied HSBC  made  it clear  that overpayments could be made at the time Mr G 
initially applied for the account  and that theyd attract interest.  Ultimately,  its Mr Gs 
responsibility to manage his accounts,  so I dont  think its fair to say HSBC  acted unfairly by 
allowing him to make  overpayments.   And  Im not satisfied hes suffered any detriment as a 
result of being able to make over payments, so I wont be asking HSBC  to do anything  else 
in respect of this. 
applying for a new regular saver  account
Mr G has said he couldnt apply for a new regular saver account on the same day his 
existing saver account matured. Ive looked at the letter HSBC sent Mr G on                                
1 November 2018, and it does say a new regular saver account can be applied for once the 
existing regular saver  matures. 
Mr G says he applied for a new regular saver  account every  day from 17 November until he 
was successful on 23 November 2018.  HSBC has said its only aware of his application on               
23 November 2018 which is when the account was opened. 
Its not clear why Mr G wasnt able to open a new regular saver account prior to the                         
23 November 2018. But in any event, he was able to open the account five days  after it 
matured. While this wouldve been  frustrating for him, I dont think it goes beyond  minor 
inconvenience. I cant see that this was because  of an error on HSBCs part and so I wont  
be asking it to do anything  else in respect  of this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Ref: DRN99904343Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9990434