K820x#14complaint
In 1995, Mrs M took out a credit  card with The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). At the 
same time, RBS sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs M thinks  that 
RBS mis-sold this policy to her and wants it to refund her all the premiums  she paid for it, 
plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
RBS had mis-sold the policy  to Mrs M. Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  what to do in Mrs Ms case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mrs M and RBS have sent us or told us about the complaint and Ive decided 
not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Mrs M and RBS have agreed that she applied for the card and bought  the PPI policy through  
the post. But Mrs M has told us that RBS added PPI to her card without her knowledge or 
consent and that she was unaware she had it. Shes said that if RBS had given her a choice 
about PPI, she would have declined it. 
But RBS has sent us a copy of the application  form which Mrs M filled in to apply  for the card 
and PPI, and I think this form shows that RBS did give her a choice about PPI and she 
chose to buy it. 
The form offered PPI to customers in a section called Card  Holder  Payment Protection 
Plan, which was separate from information about  the card itself.  The first sentence of this 
section said: 
 I have  read and understood the Summary of Cover for (the) Payment  Protection  
Plan. 
It then then gave  a very brief description  of the cover and ended with text which said::  
 and I would  like to take advantage of it.
There was then a space for customers to sigh alongside more  text which said sign  here for 
cover. 
Mrs M has signed in the relevant space. 
Its over twenty years  since Mrs M applied for her credit card and bought  the PPI policy  and I 
fully accept that she is doing her best to remember what happened.  But it seems  to me that 
if she had not wanted PPI she could  have left the relevant section of the form blank. I dont 
think that RBS added it to her credit card without  her knowledge  or consent. 
Ref: DRN97054012RBS and Mrs M have agreed that RBS didnt recommend the policy  to Mrs M personally or 
advise her to buy it. This meant that although  RBS had to tell Mrs M about the policy  fairly  
and clearly, it didnt have to check that the policy was right for her circumstances. 
The application form didnt tell Mrs M much about  the policy,  and I dont know for sure if RBS 
sent her a copy of the Summary of Cover or any other information about  the policy.  So I 
think its quite possible that RBS didnt explain the details of the policy to Mrs M as clearly as 
it should have  done. So Ive looked  into the policys features  to see if there were any that 
would have stopped Mrs M from buying it if RBS had told her about them. 
From what  Mrs M has said about her circumstances in 1995, she was eligible for the policy  
and wasnt affected  by its main limitations and exclusions. She also seems  to have been 
able to afford it. 
Mrs M has told us that if she was off work ill, she would have received sick pay from her 
employer. And I understand that she may also have been entitled to redundancy pay if she 
lost her job. Shes explained  that she thinks that this meant  that the policy  wasnt suitable for 
her. I fully accept that Mrs Ms entitlement to sick pay and possible redundancy pay would 
have been useful for her, but as RBS didnt recommend the policy  to her, it didnt have to 
check these things. However, I would like to reassure Mrs M that if she had made a 
successful claim, the policy would have paid out over and above any sick or redundancy 
payment she received  from her employer.
So I dont  think that RBS mis-sold the policy to Mrs M. But RBS has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium), so it should have  told Mrs M about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair 
. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9705401