K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) didnt agree to cover 
the cost of repairs to his car. 
background
In June 2018 Mr B bought a second  hand car with hire purchase funding provided  by 
BMWFS. He identified  a noise which appeared to come from the gearbox and took it back  to 
the dealer. It said there was no noise. The car was then subject to an independent  
inspection and that concluded there was a fault with the gearbox and it was highly likely  that 
this was developing at the point  of sale.
The dealer  appears  to have gone  out of business and Mr B asked that BMWFS cover the 
cost of repairs carried out by another garage. It suggested it pay for half the cost.  The matter  
was considered by one of our investigators who recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that BMWFS  was responsible for ensuring  the car was repaired at a suitable  garage as 
soon as possible. She also said it should  pay him £250  compensation for the trouble and 
upset he had suffered.  She also said the business should refund the monthly payments 
made by Mr B from 27 September until the car was repaired.
BMWFS agreed  to cover the cost of repairs and pay compensation, but it didnt believe  it 
should refund any of the monthly  payments. It said that despite the noise the car was still 
drivable and fit for purpose. Mr B said he had booked the car in for repairs in late January. 
He also said that the independent  inspector had advised him not to drive it as the gearbox 
could fail at any time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although BMWFS was slow to recognise  its responsibilities it has agreed  to pay for the 
repairs to the car and to pay compensation. The only issue  which remains open is the 
proposed refund of monthly  payments.
Mr B relied on his car for work and given the nature of the fault which was significant,  and I 
gather has required  a major repair, he felt unable to use the car. I find his testimony  credible 
and I accept he was told by the independent inspector that he was wise not to use it. I 
suspect if he had continued to make use of it and the car had suffered major  failure  the 
business might well be suggesting that this contributed to the problem. 
It seems  prudent of Mr B not to have used it and once  he brought the problem to the 
attention of BMWFS the matter could have been  easily and quickly  rectified.  It delayed  
matters and left Mr B without a usable car. I find it odd that it now argues that the car was fit 
for purpose  when it is clear that a major  repair was required. I dont see why Mr B should be 
expected to pay for a period when it wasnt prudent to use the car. As such  I find myself in 
agreement with the investigator.
Ref: DRN91138442my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
pay for the repairs carried out to the car in line with the findings of the independent 
report,
pay Mr B compensation  of £250 for the distress  and inconvenience he has 
experienced,
refund  his monthly payments  for the period from 27 September  until the car was 
repaired.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9113844