K820x#14complaint
Mr P says that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr P or Barclays sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN92980662Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  
my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN92980663copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
This policy was taken out during a phone call a few months after Mr P had applied  for 
his credit card. On Mr Ps credit card application he had an option to take out PPI but 
chose not to take it. 
Ive then considered  what  we know  more  widely about how Barclays sold PPI during 
phone calls around the time this policy was taken out. I think  that its more likely than 
not that they followed their normal sales process  and made Mr P aware  that PPI was 
optional - before he chose  to take it out.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr P has said that he had a pre-existing medical condition  (PEMC) at the time 
of sale. This policy excluded PEMCs.
Ive seen evidence  that Mr P made  Barclays aware of his PEMC at the time of sale.  
In a letter dated 12 May 2008, Barclays wrote to Mr P outlining  what  had been  
recommended following  the telephone call and explained that Mr Ps medical 
condition may not be covered.  
When Ive considered this alongside  what Mr P has told us about  his PEMC  that 
hes never had time off work because of it and that it was controlled, I dont think  that 
the recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable  or that the policy wasnt  right for 
Mr P as it seems unlikely that Mr P would have  thought hed need  time of work 
because of his PEMC  at the time of sale.  
Ive also noted  that there were different levels of cover available,  but Mr P chose to 
take out the level of cover  that included accident and sickness  suggesting  that he 
still wanted to be covered  for all of the other  reasons why he might  be unwell and 
unable to work. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his wider circumstances at the time,  including  the 
available employment  circumstances  information, I still think  that the 
Ref: DRN92980664recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was right for Mr P. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Barclays also had to give Mr P good enough  information so that he could  decide  if 
the policy was right for him. Its possible the information Barclays  gave Mr P about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose  to take it out - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him 
if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but these points dont currently  change  my 
decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. If Mr P or 
Barclays Bank UK PLC have anything further to add, they should do so by 2 August 2019. 
Ill then reconsider the complaint.
I do intend to tell Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont 
currently intend to award  any further compensation. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9298066