K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) held him at fault 
after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr S was in an incident with another moving car. He provided  LV with dashcam footage  of 
the collision  and gave  details of an independent  witness. LV replied an hour later that it 
couldnt hold the other  driver  to be at fault.  Mr S was unhappy that LV hadnt considered the 
evidence fully and that this would  now affect his No Claims  Discount (NCD).
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  LV had 
reasonably considered the dashcam footage and made its decision on liability.  He thought  its 
explanation that this superseded any witness statement  was reasonable. So he thought  LV 
had fairly  decided to settle the claim as fault on a without prejudice basis.
Mr S replied  that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nature of the incident was that the two cars collided  at a blind bend when they were 
coming from opposite directions. The other  driver was completing an overtaking of a parked 
car and so was pulling  back  to his own side of the road. LV said that it couldnt hold the other  
driver at fault as he couldnt see Mr S and was driving at a reasonable speed.  But it thought 
that although Mr S was driving within the speed limit, he should  have  been  warned by road 
signs to slow down and so avoid any potential obstacles. I can understand that Mr S is 
disappointed that LV is holding him at fault as this will affect his NCD at renewal. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
LV is entitled  under  the terms  and conditions of its policy with Mr S to take over, defend,  or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim,  whether he agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making  its decision. 
The evidence that LV considered was the dashcam footage provided by Mr S, photos and an 
account provided by the other  driver.  I can see from LVs notes that several  claims handlers  
viewed the footage. LV said it didnt  obtain  a statement from the independent  witness Mr S 
identified. It said the footage of the actual event would be more reliable than a witness  
recollection. I think this was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN95782422LV said the footage showed  the other car travelling  at a reasonable speed and unaware of 
Mr Ss car. But it said it also showed Mr S passing three road markings  saying slow and then 
not stopping in time. It said that as it couldnt  apportion any blame  to the other driver,  then it 
would hold Mr S at fault. It did this after considering how it could defend the matter  if it went 
to court.
I think LV reasonably  investigated the claim and made its decision after reasonably 
considering the evidence  available. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that LV has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in making its decision 
about liability. 
LV said it settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis so that Mr S could pursue the matter 
further at his own cost.  I think thats  fair and reasonable  as Mr S made it clear  that he didnt 
accept that he was fault.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9578242