K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC has registered a fraud-related  marker  against 
his record after some transactions on his account  which Barclays believe he authorised. 
Mr S disputed this.
background
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service  after Barclays had closed  his account 
and lodged a CIFAS  marker against  his name.  They told him theyd closed  his account as 
hed misused it. They  believed hed either taken money out of the account after fraudulent 
payments had been made into it or hed allowed someone else to use his account.
Detailed evidence was provided by both Barclays and Mr Ss father  on his behalf.
Our adjudicator felt overall the evidence pointed to Mr S knowing about or having authorised 
himself what happened.  He therefore didnt think it was right to ask Barclays to remove  the 
CIFAS marker  as theyd met the relevant tests in lodging this.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome  and asked an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator and for roughly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and the different arguments around  who may have 
authorised the transactions prior to Barclays closing  this account in February  2018  were 
comprehensively covered in our adjudicators view of 28 February 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The issues  I think are pertinent to this complaint include:
Mr S increased his cash machine withdrawal limit on his account in June 2017. So I 
believe its more than likely that he did this again, using his mobile phone,  on 
26 January 2018.
This increase allowed  someone to take the £450  that was withdrawn from the 
account on 2 February. Mr S hasnt been able to explain this.
It is more than possible  that Mr S could  have been shoulder-surfed and his card 
stolen on 20 January just after he used a cash machine at 4:12pm. But the rest of 
whats happened doesnt suggest  this is the full story.
Mr S didnt  tell Barclays his debit card was missing. I appreciate  he was young  when 
this happened  so may well not have realised the importance of reporting  this loss as 
soon as it happened.
Mr S had his mobile phone throughout what happened. He regularly  logged  onto his 
Barclays account to see what  was going on until 31 January 2018,  prior to the 
fraudulent funds being paid in. He then doesnt  log on again until 6 February  after the 
second fraudulent  payment into his account. His usage was then blocked as Barclays 
had identified the unusual behaviour on his account.
Ref: DRN98634772We know that fraudsters encourage people whose genuine account theyre using to 
suspend checking  their account  whilst payments are being paid in and then rapidly 
withdrawn. Thats  what happened  here.
Transactions with Mr Ss debit card after 20 January often took place when Mr S 
would have been in education;
The transactions that happen on 2 and 5 February didnt require any additional  ID 
apart from Mr Ss card and PIN and date of birth.
Mr S said his driving licence could  have gone  missing at the same time as his debit 
card. I dont dispute this but dont  think that alone would suggest someone  unknown, 
and without Mr Ss knowledge,  has done this.
Ive also considered what the Payment Services Regulations say. This means I have to 
decide whether  I believe  Mr S made  or authorised the transactions  made on 2 February (and 
those before from 20 January onwards where  Mr Ss own funds were used).
There are a number of different scenarios that could  have happened here. But overall,  and 
taking into account  Mr S knowing the status of his account up to 31 January  he himself  
tried to make payments to someone  he knew but was unable to as there werent  sufficient 
funds  I think Mr S was aware  someone else was using his account. And therefore Ive 
concluded he authorised this use.
I asked Mr Ss father for additional  information.  Hed indicated  he was going  to approach his 
sons mobile phone provider to show his phone  could have been tampered  with. Hes not 
been able to provide this. I also asked whether there was further  information  he was able to 
provide about  what could  have happened.  
We know young people  are targeted by fraudsters  so that their accounts can be used to 
transfer money fraudulently. Sometimes  young people are encouraged financially to 
participate in this type of fraud  but sometimes there are other things going on. Ive not seen 
anything here to show Mr S got any financial benefit  out of what  happened.  In fact the cash 
machine withdrawals that happened on 24 and 26 January use Mr Ss own money. It is, of 
course, possible that Mr S withdrew this cash himself but I accept that isnt what hes told us.
Im aware that Mr S had recently  crashed his car just before this had happened.  I very much 
doubt his father was chuffed about this. He may have felt unwilling to confide further in his 
parents about  what was going on as this was an upsetting time. Our adjudicator  tried to get 
Mr S to tell us what happened. Limited  information was forthcoming.  
Im very aware that a CIFAS marker being  lodged against someone whos only just 18 and 
off to further education will have a large impact on them.  On balance though I dont think it 
would be fair to ask Barclays to remove this. Based on the evidence  presented  to me, I dont 
think theyve done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Ref: DRN98634773Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863477