K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  via her professional representative that Paragon  Finance PLC, trading as 
Idem Servicing (Idem) have incorrectly reported  late payment markers to her credit file.
Background
Miss J had a credit  card account with her bank. Miss Js circumstances changed, and she 
began to struggle  with her debt. She made  an agreement with the bank to pay £55 a month 
due to there being evidence of financial difficulties. The bank had also frozen  the interest on 
the account whilst Miss J made monthly  payments to reduce the debt.  In 2012 the account 
was sold to Idem. From then on, Miss J continued to pay her agreed monthly payments to 
Idem.
Between 2017 and 2018 Miss J missed 11 payments on the account. 
In early 2018 Miss J completed an income and expenditure form with her professional  
representative. The representative spoke to Idem and informed them  that Miss J could only 
afford to make  reduced  repayments to the debt. So, Miss J started paying a reduced 
repayment each  month.  Idem reviewed the income  and expenditure form and agreed  to 
accept the reduced  repayments for 15 months.  
Idem continued to report the account to the credit  reference agencies. 
In 2019 Miss Js professional representative complained  on her behalf  to Idem.  They said 
that Miss J had only ever made an agreement with idem to make the reduced repayments.  
So, they felt her credit file shouldnt show as having  late payments. 
In response Idem said that Miss J had missed repayments between 2017 and 2018  so, her 
account was still in arrears. It said it had been reporting the account correctly  to the credit 
reference agencies.
Miss J was unhappy with Idems response and so brought  the complaint to us. 
Our investigator was satisfied that Idem had been accurately reporting Miss Js account  to 
the credit  reference  agencies. And, that Idem had acted fairly  when Miss J started to miss 
payments on her account. 
Miss J remained unhappy  as she said she didnt make the payments in 2017 as she had 
disputed liability for the debt under  s78 Consumer  Credit  Act (CCA). And, that the only 
repayment agreement  she had ever made with Idem was the agreement  to make reduced 
repayments. So, the matter has been  passed onto me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Js original lender  didnt default the account but in this situation  a default would have 
made sense.  It was clear  Miss J was unable to repay the debt, agreeing  to monthly  
repayments which were  likely to be lower than the credit cards  minimum payments. 
But because the original lender didnt default the account, it makes it less straight forward.
Ref: DRN94307792Idem purchased the account from the original lender  so they were the owner of the debt and 
werent working as a debt collector. When the debt was sold to Idem, Miss J was bound by 
the same  contractual repayment arrangements she made with the original lender. And Miss 
J had made  these arrangements with the original lender after there  was evidence of financial 
difficulties. But Miss J kept up these payments for several years  and didnt  show Idem any 
signs of further difficulties until 2017.  
Miss Js representatives have said that Miss J didnt make her repayments in 2017 as she 
had disputed the debt under s78 CCA and so the account wasnt  enforceable. 
However, from Idems file I have seen  that a s78 CCA dispute was raised  in November 
2016. Idem  have  said that whilst the debt was disputed, they made the debt unenforceable. 
But the debt still existed and at no point  did they tell Miss J to stop payments. I can also see 
from the file that Idem  were  able to comply with their obligations under the CCA in December 
2016 by sending Miss J a copy  of her original credit  agreement and account history.  In that 
letter Idem made it clear  that the debt had again  become enforceable. So, even if the debt 
was disputed in 2017 when Miss J stopped  making  payments  which  I dont think  it was  I 
havent seen any evidence that Idem told Miss J to stop making  payments  towards  her debt.  
Between 2017 and 2018 when  Miss J missed 11 monthly payments to Idem.  It regularly 
wrote to Miss J to inform  her that arrears  were being recorded  on the account and asked her 
to make repayments. Idem also sent Miss J an income and expenditure form to complete 
which wasnt returned. So, I think Idem were  reasonable in informing Miss J of the arrears  
and trying to get her to contact them.  
Idem reported the arrears on Miss Js account  to the credit reference agencies.  
The information commissioners office  (ICO) provides guidance to businesses  about the 
information that they must send to credit reference agencies. The ICO say that the data 
reported on credit files must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date. 
So, I have considered if this is true in Miss Js case. 
I have seen a report from one of the main credit reference agencies which  shows reporting 
of each of Miss Js missed payments and the status code increasing by one each  month to a 
score of six after six months (the maximum number of months  that can be reported). 
Although Miss J started  making reduced repayments to Idem  in 2018, she was paying less 
than her contractual monthly payment  her agreement  with the original lender. This meant  
that the arrears  recorded on the account  were still increasing.
I understand why Miss J is confused  that the account markers  show as late payments and 
is concerned because she says her (reduced)  payments  are made  every  month  on time. 
However, I want to reassure her that late payment  is just another  term for arrears. 
It doesnt mean that an individual  months  payment was made  late, just that the account 
overall is always being paid late - as theres arrears  on it. A payment will not show  as being  
made on time if there are such significant outstanding amounts from previous months still 
owing.
Therefore, the information sent to the credit  reference  agencies  by Idem is reflecting that the 
account is over six months  in arrears. I know this will disappoint  Miss J but as this is a true 
reflection of her account, I cant say that Idem have done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN94307793Miss J has agreed with Idem a suitable repayment  plan, considering her income and 
expenditure. Idem have also said that it will look to stop reporting Miss Js account to the 
credit reference agencies in March 2023 so that Miss J isnt any worse off than if it were  to 
have defaulted  her account  in March 2017  when  she stopped  making payments. I think this 
is a fair solution by Idem to ensure Miss J isnt any worse off in the future.
In short,  I think Idem have  acted  reasonably  in the circumstances  and havent done  anything 
significantly wrong. So, Im not minded to ask Idem to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9430779