K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I understand Miss Hs policy was sold by phone and that Miss H subsequently  received an 
application form with the box for PPI pre-ticked.
Ive thought about whether this means  Barclays didnt make it clear Miss H had a choice  
about taking the PPI. I cant  know what  was said during the call  theres no recording 
available. But Barclays has provided a sales script  and the script instructs  the sales  advisor 
to confirm whether  or not the customer wants to take out PPI. On balance, I think  its likely 
the person Miss H spoke to wouldve followed the script and offered her a choice.
So although  the box for PPI is pre-ticked, I think this is likely to reflect that Miss H gave her 
agreement during a phone  call.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. In saying 
this, Ive taken into account  that Miss H was entitled  to some sick pay. But I dont  think this 
made Barclays recommendation unreasonable  the cover could still be useful  to Miss H. 
And Miss H wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
I dont know how well Barclays explained  the key features of the policy  to Miss H and so its 
possible the information it provided  about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
Miss H chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
Ref: DRN92526642But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said and I know  she feels strongly  that she wasnt 
given a fair choice.  But, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think the PPI policy  was 
mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9252664