K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a policy  to protect  their mortgage repayments  at the same time as 
they took out a further advance in 1992.  They recall the sale took place in one of the 
societys branches. The cover was in Mr Ss sole name and gave  him accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  Nationwide disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive taken followed this here.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms Nationwide has referred  us to say that benefits for accident, sickness or
unemployment wont be paid until after 90 days from when someone stopped working  due to
accident, illness or becoming unemployed (the waiting period).
Even though  Nationwide didnt recommend  the policy to Mr and Mrs S, this was an important 
term. Its reasonable to expect Nationwide wouldve explained the waiting period clearly  to 
Mr and Mrs S before  they agreed  to take the cover.
Ive taken into account that Nationwide says the waiting period wouldve been  verbally  
explained to Mr and Mrs S as part of the branch sales process. Ive also seen the policy 
leaflet that wouldve been in use when  Mr and Mrs S bought PPI, that Nationwide says 
wouldve been given  to them help them make an informed decision on whether to proceed.
That leaflet mentions the waiting period, although Im not satisfied  its very clear or 
prominent. And I cant know how, if at all, Nationwide  verbally  explained the waiting period to 
Mr and Mrs S, or when the policy leaflet was given to them. So based  on everything Ive 
looked at, I dont think theres  enough  evidence to conclude that Nationwide clearly 
explained the waiting period to Mr and Mrs S before  they agreed to buy PPI. Its inclusion in 
the policy document they were later sent does  not make up for failings at the point of sale.
Mr S wasnt  entitled to any sick pay from his employer, just statutory sick pay. And hes told 
us he didnt have  any other means  to rely on if he wasnt  working.  He did say family and 
relatives would  have helped but thats  not suitable  alternative protection  its not guaranteed  
and peoples  circumstances can change.  So based on the available evidence it seems  they 
had no guaranteed means in place  to keep up with their mortgage repayments  if Mr S wasnt 
working. I think they mightve  struggled to meet  their mortgage repayments  during the 90 
day waiting period if Mr S was sick, had an accident  or lost his job. 
Ref: DRN99243362Nationwide says Mr and Mrs Ss testimony about Mr Ss circumstances is inconsistent.  It 
points to different  information they supplied at the time of the initial complaint. I accept that, 
but we had already reverted to Mr and Mrs Ss representative to confirm Mr Ss 
circumstances in 1992. They told us they were as Ive set out above. Nationwide  also asked 
that we consider Mrs Ss independent  income,  but given the nature of her work I dont think 
its likely  Mr and Mrs S would have thought it could always  be relied on to fund their 
mortgage during  the waiting period. And Nationwide  hasnt provided enough evidence  to 
persuade me otherwise.
Nationwide also argues that the reality of the way Mr and Mrs Ss account was managed 
evidences that had a claim been  accepted,  there would be no issues  if their mortgage went 
unpaid or fell into arrears  during the 90 day waiting period. But Mr and Mrs S would  not have 
known when taking  out the policy what Nationwides attitude would be if they were having  
difficulty meeting their mortgage repayments,  nor that they may in the future  be in a position  
to make overpayments  or hold a credit on their account. So this point does not change  my 
conclusion.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs S wouldve agreed  to take the policy had Nationwide  clearly
explained the waiting period to them. It follows I think  theyve lost out because  of the 
problems with this sale.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out
PPI. Nationwide  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on. 
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr and Mrs S.
If Nationwide has already refunded an amount to Mr and Mrs S in respect of this 
policy then it can deduct the amount paid already from the amount it now owes  them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Nationwide  Building Society to 
pay Mr and Mrs S compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9924336