K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for this complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs M took out a store card account  in 2003. She completed an application form in store   
and was sold a PPI policy at the same time. The policy cost £1 for every £100 she owed. If 
she was off work sick or lost her job, each  month  it would have paid her 15% of what she 
owed when she made her claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
I think Mrs M knew she had a choice and chose to buy PPI.
FICL has sent me a copy of the credit agreement. It explains  that Account Cover  
provides purchase  protection, price  protection and payment protection.  And Mrs M 
has signed separately to confirm  she wanted  Account Cover.
Mrs M told us she felt rushed and didnt realise shed signed separately to agree to 
buy Account Cover.
I appreciate that Mrs M may have felt rushed  when  she filled in the form. But she was 
able to provide  all the information that was needed.  And she didnt  just tick a box to 
buy Account Cover  she signed her name. Its a separate section of the form under 
the heading Protecting your Account  and it says:
Only sign this box if you require Account  Cover.
So on balance, I think Mrs M knew she was signing for a separate product.
FICL  says it didnt recommend Mrs M buy Account Cover  and Mrs M agrees. So it 
didnt have to check that the policy was suitable  for her. But it had to tell her about 
the policy in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
In the Account Cover section of the agreement, it says the policy cost 1p for every £1 
owed. And it says:
Ref: DRN99079542For more information  on the benefits, eligibility requirements and exclusions relating 
to cover please see the customer  copy of this Credit Agreement.
I havent seen  Mrs Ms copy of the credit agreement  so I dont know  what 
information was included or how it was presented.
Its possible the information provided  wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
Mrs M chose  to buy Account Cover   so it looks like she wanted this type of cover, 
despite the sick pay she says she would have  received. 
And she was eligible  for the policy, employed  and in good health at the time  so she 
wouldnt have been affected by any exclusions or limitations which might materially  
affect a self-employed consumer or someone who had a pre-existing medical  
condition. So I dont  think better information  about  the policy would have stopped  her 
buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9907954