K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA)  didnt cover  the full 
cost of repairs needed to a piece  of farm machinery when they made  a claim on their 
Agricultural Vehicle Insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S use a motorised telehandler machine on their farm. In February 2016 it was 
involved in an incident. Mr and Mrs S thought its front fork was twisted and that its inner 
boom was damaged. Initially a local dealership (firm D) assessed the damage.  RSAs  
engineer then said Mr and Mrs S should  get an opinion from a local agricultural engineer, 
Mr W. Mr W didnt  think the necessary repairs were as extensive as firm D had said.  But he 
thought the fork and the boom needed  to be replaced. RSA agreed to pay for that work, so 
the repairs were done in May 2016.  
In April 2017 Mr and Mrs S told RSA there was a problem with the machine.  They  said it had 
developed gradually, starting a short time after the repairs were done.  Mr and Mrs S had 
asked firm D to rectify the fault. Firm D made several attempts to do so and discussed  the 
problem with the manufacturer (firm  M). Firm D eventually found a fault with the machines 
compensating ram. Firm D later told RSAs engineer it thought the impact in 2016  had sent 
shock waves through the machine and that had caused the fault to develop over time.  
RSAs engineer didnt agree. He thought the fault was caused by premature  wear and tear, 
which wasnt covered  by the policy.  The ram was then taken  to a specialist hydraulics firm 
(firm A) for inspection.  Firm A thought the damage was caused by a foreign object in the 
oil, which  had caused a seal to fail over time - but it didnt  have an oil sample to check.
Mr and Mrs Ss broker later told them hed spoken  to firm A. It told him RSA hadnt advised it 
that the ram was from a telehandler that had been involved in an incident. The broker  said 
firm A told him if it had it known  that, it may have reached a different conclusion.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs S had sent an oil sample from the machine to an independent 
oil analyst. The analyst said there was no cause for concern with the oil. Shortly afterwards, 
an advisor from firm M told RSA the compensating  ram failure was not likely to be related to 
the accident in 2016 as the machines tilt ram had been replaced at that time.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with RSAs  rejection  of the claim,  so they complained  to this 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into their concerns. She thought it was reasonable 
for RSA to decline the claim. She noted that there  were a range of different views,  but on 
balance she thought the damage to the machine was probably caused  by wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs S said RSA hadnt given firm A all the facts. They said firm A didnt know  about 
the independent oil test. Nor had it been  told that the machine was less than two years  old 
and had done less than 1,000 hours  work. Mr and Mrs S said firm D told them that when it 
gave firm A these facts, it said it may have taken a different view had it known about them 
previously. They also pointed out that RSA hadnt  told firm Ms advisor  about  the oil test, 
either. And they noted that firm Ms advisor  wrongly believed that the tilt ram had been 
replaced after the accident. They said hed have changed his view had he known the facts.
Ref: DRN90166572The adjudicator checked with RSAs  engineer.  He said all the parties  were  made  fully aware  
of all the circumstances. The adjudicator  still didnt  think  there  was clear evidence  that the 
later fault with the machine was caused by the initial incident, so she didnt change her view.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint as follows:
I think RSAs notes  and correspondence show that it relied heavily on the view it got from 
firm A, the hydraulics specialist. RSAs  notes suggest that firm A knew about the accident, 
although I cant see anything to show it was told about the machines age or low output. 
Firm A wrote to RSA in October  2017. It said there were  no damage marks on or around the 
ram, so it thought a foreign object within the oil caused the damage.  But firm A said it had no 
oil sample from the machine to back up what it described as its theory.  It looks  as though  
firm A didnt know that Mr and Mrs Ss independent oil analysts report  said there was no 
cause for concern with the oil. I think its more likely than not that had firm A known about the 
report, it would have reconsidered  its view.
RSA appears to have  accepted firm As view as fact. In RSAs engineers report, the 
engineer relied  on what firm A had said. He concluded that as a contaminate  in the oil 
caused the seal to fail, the rams cylinder  was destroyed  over time. So he thought the cause 
of the problem was premature wear and tear. The engineer  said that further  tests  would be 
required to establish  the exact catalyst, but further  tests werent  done.   
Mr and Mrs S challenged RSAs conclusion, and it then consulted firm M  the vehicles 
manufacturer. Firm Ms advisor said the accident could have led to the later failure  of the 
compensating ram, as they are on the same circuit. But he went  on to say that since the tilt 
ram was replaced at the time of the accident, then the failure of the compensating ram was 
unlikely to be related  to the accident. I think the evidence shows  that the tilt ram wasnt 
replaced at the time of the accident, so firm Ms view was based on an inaccurate  belief.
RSA acknowledged  firm Ms view in an internal  email dated 6 November 2017. Its advisor 
informed a colleague that as we changed the tilt ram at the time of initial  repair I think 
this suggests  that RSA believed it had paid for work  to be carried out that in fact was never 
agreed to or done. It may be that confusion arose because an estimate for repairs  was first
prepared by firm D. But the estimate  that was accepted by RSA was from Mr W, the 
agricultural engineer.  The only items  he replaced  were the fork and the boom.    
After the complaint was passed to me, Mr and Mrs S sought an opinion  from Mr W. He said 
it wasnt surprising the oil wasnt contaminated, given that the machine was relatively  new. 
Mr W said he thought it quite likely that the severe impact in 2016 caused damage  to the 
seals, and that eventually the damaged seals allowed  oil to pass  through.  In his view, it 
would have taken  time for the machine to fail in this way. We asked RSA to comment  on 
Mr Ws report, but to date it hasnt done so. 
Firm D replaced the compensating ram in 2017. It was aware of the dispute with RSA and 
provided a note setting  out its view in April 2018. Firm D said in its experience, the rams on 
this type of machine had never failed before. It queried RSAs  view that wear and tear 
caused the problem. It said it had contacted firm A, given  firm As view that the oil was 
contaminated. Firm D reported  that firm A said it hadnt known about the independent oil test 
or the accident and its opinion would have been  different had it known.  
Ref: DRN90166573We asked RSA to comment on the conclusion of the independent oil specialist that the 
machines oil wasnt contaminated. We also asked it to comment  on the fact that the tilt ram 
wasnt replaced during  the original repairs. RSAs engineer didnt refer to the second  point  at 
all. In response to the first query, he said the original  repairer (firm D) didnt find any 
contamination in the oil. The engineer said hed only referred  to contamination for the wear 
and tear of the compensating ram, which was an isolated issue.
I dont think RSAs engineers response  was helpful. Whats  clear is that Mr and Mrs Ss 
claim was declined based on premature wear and tear. That appears to be based on the 
view of firm A, which didnt have any oil to sample  and made an assumption  that there must 
be a contaminant in the oil. The independent report shows there was no contaminant.  It 
looks as though RSA is mistaken  in thinking the manufacturer,  firm M, supported  the decline 
of the claim. Firm Ms view was based  on the mistaken belief that the tilt ram was replaced 
after the accident. I think it may have taken a different  view had it known the facts.
Theres other evidence  in support of Mr and Mrs Ss claim from Mr W, who carried  out the 
accident repairs, and from firm D, whose  engineers  liaised with the manufacturer  about  the 
later fault with the machine. Neither of them thinks wear and tear was the reason for the 
problem with the compensating ram. 
Taking everything into account,  from the details Ive seen  to date, I think its more  likely than 
not that the fault developed slowly  but was caused  by the accident. So I think  RSA should  
cover Mr and Mrs Ss claim. Its engineer discussed  the repairs with firm D, and then with firm 
M, in 2017. He agreed that a reasonable sum for the work would be £1,103.46. Mr and Mrs 
S paid that sum to firm D. They have also paid for two independent reports  in support of their 
case, from the oil specialist and from Mr W. I think RSA should  pay for those reports, if 
Mr and Mrs S can provide invoices for them. I also think  Mr and Mrs S were upset and 
inconvenienced by RSAs decision to decline their claim, despite  the evidence  theyd 
produced. So I think it would be reasonable for RSA to pay them some compensation.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs S didnt comment. 
RSA asked us to let it know the cost of the reports so it could calculate the interest on them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any substantive comments on my provisional  view, I dont think 
theres any reason  to depart  from my provisional findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £1,103.46 for the repairs
Pay Mr and Mrs S for the two independent reports from Mr W and the oil specialist, 
subject to evidence  of the cost of the reports
Ref: DRN90166574Add interest  to the sums above  at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of each  
payment by Mr and Mrs S until the date of settlement   
Pay Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience
If RSA thinks its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9016657