K820x#14complaint
Mrs C doesnt think its fair for Capital  One (Europe) Plc (Capital  One) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  she was discharged 
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mrs C took out her credit card in 2004  and was sold PPI at the same time.
In 2007, Mrs C granted a trust deed   which became  a protected trust deed   for her 
creditors. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mrs C was discharged from her trust deed  in 2010.
In 2017, Capital One wrote out to Mrs C explaining  that she had been  mis-sold PPI on her 
credit card.
Capital One upheld Mrs Cs complaint  and offered Mrs C compensation. Capital One then 
used the compensation to reduce the balance  it said was outstanding on Mrs Cs credit  card 
that hadnt been fully repaid.  
Mrs C, unhappy with what Capital  One had done, referred the matter to our service. 
Mrs C says it is unfair for Capital  One to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from 
which she has been discharged. Mrs Cs explained that there  had been a court  case  which  
focused on whom PPI compensation should  be paid to when a consumer has been 
discharged from a protected trust deed. Because of this, Mrs C says the compensation 
should be paid directly to her.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought Capital  One had acted fairly in using  
the compensation to reduce the amount left unpaid  that Mrs C wont now ever have to repay  
to Capital One  despite  Mrs C being  discharged from her trust deed.  
Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been resolved its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
While the complaint was waiting  for an ombudsmans  decision,  Mrs C asked our service  to 
put her complaint on hold until the Scottish  Courts Inner House  of the Court of Session had 
made its decision in Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1. I wrote to 
Mrs C explaining why I didnt think I needed to wait for the outcome of the case in 
considering and providing my decision on her complaint. Mrs C didnt respond. I will explain 
my reasoning on this point again,  within my findings below.
Ref: DRN93397102my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
The Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA) is an act of Parliament of the 
United Kingdom  that created the Financial Services Authority (now called the Financial 
Conduct Authority) as a regulator for insurance,  investment  business  and banking, and 
created our service.
FSMA under  Part XVI  The Ombudsman Scheme sets out:
225. The scheme and the scheme  operator.
(1)This Part provides  for a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality  by an independent person.
228. Determination under  the compulsory jurisdiction.
(2)A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion  of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) sets out, in its handbook, the rules 
under which we operate. They can be found  online.  These are known  as the DISP rules 
(Dispute Resolution:  Complaints).
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in 
[the ombudsmans] opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
And when  considering what  is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So I wont be looking at how the 
PPI came to be sold as that is no longer  in dispute.  And Mrs C isnt unhappy with the amount 
of compensation  being offered, so I havent  looked  at that. Although  from looking at what 
Capital One have offered it includes everything I would expect to see. 
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for Capital  One to use the 
PPI compensation  to reduce the credit card balance that Mrs C says was written off after she 
was discharged from her protected trust deed. 
Ref: DRN93397103Mrs C says as she was discharged from her protected  trust deed and in light of relevant law 
(Scots law) the compensation should  be paid directly to her. 
Capital One says it has the right to offset  the compensation  against  monies  Mrs C hasnt 
fully repaid.
Is it fair for Capital One to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed 
 despite Mrs C being discharged from her protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that 
Mrs C says I should rely on in determining what should happen  to the compensation. 
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC 
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that Mrs C says is relevant to her situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But, importantly,  Im not bound to 
follow it. And if I decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must apply an over-arching test of whats  fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances  of Mrs Cs complaint  as required of me through 
FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for Capital One to use the compensation to reduce the 
monies Mrs C borrowed  and didnt  fully repay.
While Mrs C was discharged from her protected trust deed there was still an amount that 
Mrs C wont now ever have to repay  to Capital  One. The fact that Mrs C entered into a 
protected trust deed  and was discharged  from her debt when her trust deed  came to an end 
doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference to what is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell Capital One to pay back  the PPI compensation to Mrs C, 
when Mrs C doesnt now have to pay back the monies she borrowed. 
I would also like to add that when I decide  a complaint about the sale of PPI should  be 
upheld, Id tell a business to put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if they 
hadnt been sold the policy.
Ref: DRN93397104With a credit card PPI policy like Mrs Cs, the PPI was charged to the outstanding  balance. 
Until the card balance  has been  repaid in full  Mrs C had not actually paid in full for that 
PPI. The majority of it is unpaid PPI. So whilst  Capital One has worked out the amount of 
PPI in its calculation,  it is not the amount Mrs C had actually ever paid out of her own pocket. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to tell Capital  One to pay Mrs C the compensation when it 
isnt the amount she had actually paid for PPI over the duration she held her credit card. 
Capital One, by using the compensation  to reduce the unpaid debt, is actually showing what 
the debt would have likely  been had Mrs C not taken out PPI. 
And it is important to note,  Capital  One isnt seeking to legally pursue Mrs C for any amount. 
It is simply using  the PPI compensation to reduce the credit card balance left unpaid that 
Mrs C doesnt have  to pay back.  And for the reasons explained above, I think that is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for Capital One (Europe) Plc to use 
Mrs Cs PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid when Mrs Cs trust 
deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9339710