K821x#15complaint
Mrs E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned  down her claim under her pet insurance 
policy. It also then added  a number of exclusions to the cover, backdated  to the policys  start 
date. Mrs E also complains about  the service she received from Allianz.
Mrs Es husband, Mr E, has represented  her in this complaint but the policy is in her sole 
name. So while Ive referred to Mr Es submissions my decision is in Mrs Es sole name.
My references in this decision to Allianz include its agent. 
background
In March 2017 Mrs E took out a pet insurance  policy for her and Mr Es two cats, who Ill call 
C and D. She and Mr E had owned  D for a few years, but had recently  acquired C, who was 
then a kitten. She says that on the recommendation of their vet they decided to insure  both 
cats. 
Mrs E says that the insurance was arranged through their vet, which  is an appointed 
representative of Allianz,  after Mrs E had called Allianz. But Allianz says that the policy  was 
set up and taken  out on the telephone  with Mrs E on 31 March 2017,  during which  it asked 
her questions about both cats health.  Allianz says it emailed the policy documents within an 
hour of the call, and it also sent the documents by post at Mrs Es request.
In September  2017 the vet arranged for D to have some dental  work done under general 
anaesthetic. Mrs E made a claim for the costs, which  were  just over £570.  Allianz  turned 
down the claim. It said that when she took out the policy Mrs E hadnt given it correct  
information about Ds clinical history, which included grade two and grade three periodontal 
disease, cystitis and obesity. If shed given it this information it would have put a range of 
policy exclusions on the policy including for mouth and oral disorders, and a stated list of 
disorders it said were  related to obesity.
Mr and Mrs E complained about Allianzs response to the claim. They said it hadnt  sent her 
the policy documents until after it had turned down the claim,  and it hadnt  acted 
transparently. They were unhappy  with its response to the complaint, and came to us with a 
detailed complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with his findings so 
the complaint  came  to me for review.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said I intended to uphold  this complaint in part. My 
provisional decision forms part of this final decision,  and I attach a copy  to this decision. In 
brief summary, my provisional findings were  that:
On balance, the insurance  contract  had been  set up during  a telephone 
conversation between Mrs E and Allianz  on 31 March 2017, when Allianz asked 
Mrs E a series of questions. 
In taking reasonable care to answer  Allianzs  questions I thought  Mrs E should have 
told it that D had had dental  treatment  in 2015. I also thought she should  have told it 
Ref: DRN96956112that the vet had discussed with her and Mr E the need to reduce Ds weight, as this 
was mentioned specifically in relation to Ds episode of cystitis. 
If Mrs E had given Allianz  the above  information,  then I was satisfied Allianz  would 
have placed a policy exclusion for mouth and oral disorders on the policy from the 
outset. D would  have  to go 24 months  from the last treatment date before Allianz  
would review this policy exclusion.  So I provisionally found that Allianz was entitled  to 
put this policy exclusion on the policy backdated to its start date. This meant it was 
fairly entitled not to pay the claim for Ds 2017 dental  treatment, under the mouth and 
oral disorders  exclusion. 
But I wasnt satisfied Allianz  had shown it had been entitled to add exclusions for 
obesity related disorders had Mrs E had given it information about the veterinary 
advice she and Mr E had been  given to reduce Ds weight. I said this because, in 
summary, Allianz  hadnt contacted  Ds vet  in line with its underwriting guide   to 
find out if D was clinically obese.  The evidence given by Ds vet was that D was 
overweight at the time they took out the policy  and had already lost a good amount 
of weight. The vet hadnt confirmed D was clinically obese  at the time the policy  was 
taken out. So I provisionally found  that Allianz should remove the policy  exclusions 
related to obesity,  back dated to the policys start date. 
Mr and Mrs E had complained Allianz  hadnt reduced the premium for the policy even  
though it had excluded a number of disorders from cover. Theyd made  a separate  
complaint about that so I made no findings on that issue.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs E responded to say, in summary,  that the provisional decision findings  
represented a balanced approach that they could accept. They  pointed  out it was never their 
intention to misrepresent  or deliberately mislead  Allianz. Theyd been persuaded to insure C 
and D and pursued the complaint because  they thought the exclusions were  
disproportionate and callous. They asked me to consider these points:
The full list of exclusions  in the final paragraph should mirror those in an email  from 
Allianzs operation  underwriter, dated  13 November 2018, being  The exclusions for 
hormone disorders,  heart disorders, leg/hip/shoulder disorders and respiratory 
system disorders.
The recognised  the retrospective nature of the decision and questioned whether  the 
final decision would include an effective date for the findings to be complied with. 
They accept they should raise the matter of the policy premium  separately with 
Allianz. But, having attempted to do so, had found Allianz  totally unresponsive. So 
they thought it would be helpful if my decision should confirm  a requirement for 
Allianz to respond to this issue. 
After requesting additional time to respond  Allianz said that it didnt agree with my 
provisional findings. It had discussed  the issues with its technical  underwriter, which  
responded as follows:
The veterinary history  is an accurate record of events and it relies on the notes  
provided by the vets when placing exclusions. When it says in its guide that the 
Ref: DRN96956113veterinary practice must be contacted to find out whether a pet is clinically  obese  or 
not, this means  it must have received a clinical history for the pet and it must be 
clearly stated in the clinical history  that the pet is obese. It wouldnt rely on 
confirmation from the customer alone. Alternatively, if the clinical history  did not 
clearly indicate that a pet is obese,  it would then contact the vets and ask for verbal 
or written confirmation as to whether or not the pet was obese.
In this case the vet clearly noted that D was obese on several occasions, prior to the 
policys start date:
o23.12.14 obese
o7.01.15 obese
o13.2.15 obese
The pet doesnt have to be clinically obese at the time of policy  inception  for it to 
place the obesity related exclusions. This is because the exclusions can be reviewed 
once the pet is at the correct weight  (and this is confirmed by the vets) and the 
correct weight is maintained for six months.  The vet confirmed D was obese on 
13 February 2015, indicating that D is still at an unhealthy weight. On 17 August 
2016 the vet also states  that Ds weight  was up again, overweight,  with advice to see 
the veterinary  nurse  weight clinic  again.  
But in this case the evidence points to D being  obese at inception.  When  D went to 
the vets on 17 August  2017 the vet notes weight is a constant battle . At that time it 
was confirmed that D had a body  condition score (BCS) of 5/5, despite the fact that D 
had lost weight.  Ds prior appointment  was 22 May 2017, indicating D was obese  at 
that time  considering he was still obese despite  having  lost weight. The BCS are 
used by vets as a measure  of obesity (and it gave an external link from the American  
Animal Hospital Association  to confirm how the BCS is used by vets).
developments
Allianz offered  to send us its file and said that we could look at the pricing issue  as part of 
this complaint. We explained this to Mr and Mrs E, and that it would take longer for this 
complaint about  the exclusions to be decided. We also noted that in their complaint form 
about the pricing Mr and Mrs E had mentioned compensation for the overall time spent in 
dealing with Allianz. They hadnt  mentioned that in response to my provisional  decision. So 
we explained  that if they were looking for compensation in this existing complaint (as distinct 
from the separate pricing issue)  then Id need to review that now  and it was likely Id need 
to issue a second provisional decision because  Id not considered any award in my 
provisional decision. 
We explained that if Mr and Mrs E were  looking at distress and inconvenience we could look 
at that in the pricing complaint, but it would be confined  to the pricing  issue. We wouldnt be 
able to look at their overall distress and inconvenience on the issues Id already decided. 
I couldnt comment on the merits of the pricing complaint as wed not yet looked into it. So 
we said that I would be likely to issue my final decision on this complaint now,  with the 
pricing issue to be decided separately. 
We also explained to Allianz that it was likely wed look at the pricing complaint separately.  
Mr and Mrs E responded to say, in summary,  that:
Ref: DRN96956114Wed changed  our position on this issue, given that wed said we werent able to deal 
with financial claims.  Theyd  already lodged a claim for compensation with us and 
were waiting  to hear about that. Theyd already raised the matter of their stress, 
inconvenience and costs in earlier correspondence on the matter of Allianzs  
repudiatory breaches of Ds insurance cover. Theyd also claimed the refund of 
premiums whilst  the insurance cover was curtailed. 
They question why its only now that Allianz has sent us its file, and they feel this is a 
departure from the directions  given in my provisional  decision. It is appalling  that 
Allianz acts in this matter, being  an international insurance cover. He sees  no reason 
why we cant deal with the repudiation of insurance cover for D, the continuation of 
taking premiums for reduced  cover and compensation for the unnecessary  stress,  
inconvenience and cost of their pursing this matter. 
By way of example they explain  Allianz  has failed to answer their request for the 
individual premiums  charged for their cats C and D. 
But to be helpful they agree the following  approach by the ombudsman: that the 
matter of the repudiatory breaches of insurance  cover is dealt with together  with 
their claims for compensation associated with that matter, together with the 
repayment of a proportionate premium cost for D while his insurance cover  was 
reduced from its commencement date
They point out that the breach of Ds cover and compensation were  raised  with 
Allianz over two years ago, but they didnt respond to the financial issues of their 
claim. In support  of this they include an extract of their letter  to this service  of 
11 December 2017, in which (amongst other things, they asked Allianz  to cancel the 
policy, pay the dental claim by way of compensation and compensate them  for their 
time and trouble in bringing this matter before the ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E have  accepted my provisional decision, subject to the points Ive summarised 
above. I accept  their point  that there  as no deliberate intent to mislead  and Allianz hasnt 
suggested it was deliberate. For the reasons Ive explained I think there was a failure  to take 
reasonable care, even though I understand Mrs E might have thought Allianz  would ask the 
vet for clinical notes before the policy was set up. 
Allianz hasnt accept my provisional decision, because it says its underwriter  would have 
applied the policy exclusions  for obesity had Mrs E told it that D was overweight at the time 
she applied  for the policy.
Ive considered the underwriting evidence very carefully. Allianz is essentially saying that it 
would have asked  for the veterinary notes, which it says indicated  that D was clinically  obese  
at the policys  start date.  As such,  it says it would have applied the obesity exclusions, 
because the clinical  history indicated that D had previously been obese and would need to 
be at his correct weight for at least six months.
Ref: DRN96956115I can see Allianzs reasoning. But the underwriting guide that Allianz sent me says 
something different.  It says that in all cases the veterinary practice must be contacted to find 
out if the animal is clinically  obese. 
Allianz has pointed  to clinical notes in August 2016 saying that Ds weight was up again and 
that he was overweight. But the notes  dont say he was obese. Advice was given to see the 
veterinary nurses weight clinic again. But as mentioned  in my provisional decision Ds vet, 
who had seen and treated  him, said that he was overweight at the time of taking out the 
policy but Mr and Mrs E were already undergoing a strict weight loss regime  and D had 
already lost a good amount of weight. Ive reviewed  the BCS index that Allianz has referred  
me to, and the rating  of 5/5 a few months  after the policy was taken  out. But I dont think  its 
shown that D was obese at the time Mr and Mrs E took out the policy.  Im not relying on what  
Mr and Mrs E have  told me and Allianz.  Im relying on information their vet gave to Allianz.  
So for the reasons given here, the fair outcome is for Allianz to remove  the policy  exclusions 
for obesity.  For the avoidance of doubt, the exclusions are set out in the final decision 
section below, together with a date for compliance  with my final decision. Its fair for Allianz  
to confirm in writing to Mrs E that it has removed the exclusions  and to send her an 
amended schedule of cover. 
Ive considered all the comments  about  the pricing issue.  To be clear  Allianz  had sent us its 
full file on the issue of the policy exclusions and the declined claim. But the pricing  issue  had 
been referred as a separate complaint, and much later than the original one, so it was just 
the pricing complaint file that wed not seen. 
I remain of the view that the pricing issue  that is that Allianz didnt reduce the premium 
when it excluded a list of conditions for dental and obesity related issues - should be dealt 
with as a separate complaint. So I dont make any findings on it here.  I do appreciate  Mr and 
Mrs E did raise this issue with Allianz  at a much  earlier stage, and its appropriate that their 
concern about  its failure to respond  to that issue be considered under their complaint about 
that issue. We can consider whether they should receive compensation for that issue, but 
I wont comment on the merits  of the pricing issue because weve not yet investigated  it. We 
will be in contact with Mr and Mrs E and Allianz separately about the pricing issue. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and in my findings  above, I uphold this 
complaint in part. 
Within 28 days of the date on which we send  it Mrs Es acceptance of my final decision 
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to remove the policy exclusions  it has placed on Ds policy  for 
obesity related orders, backdated  to the policys start date, and send to Mrs E confirmation in 
writing it has removed  the exclusions and an amended schedule of cover  for D. For the 
avoidance of any doubt, Allianz  must  remove the exclusions for claims resulting from or 
connected to the following disorders, backdated  to the policy  start date:
hormone disorders
heart disorders
leg/hip/shoulder disorders
respiratory system disorders
Ref: DRN96956116Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96956117copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned  down her claim under her pet insurance policy. It 
also then added a number of exclusions  to the cover, backdated to the policys start date. Mrs E also 
complains about the service  she received from Allianz.
Mrs Es husband,  Mr E, has represented her in this complaint but the policy is in her sole name. So 
while Ive referred to Mr Es submissions my decision  is in Mrs Es sole name.
My references  in this decision to Allianz  include its agent. 
background
In March 2017  Mrs E took out a pet insurance  policy  for her and Mr Es two cats, who Ill call C and D. 
She and Mr E had owned  D for a few years, but had recently acquired C, who was then a kitten. She 
says that on the recommendation of their vet they decided to insure both cats. 
Mrs E says that the insurance was arranged through their vet, which is an appointed representative  
of Allianz, after Mrs E had called Allianz.  But Allianz says that the policy was set up and taken out on 
the telephone with Mrs E on 31 March 2017, during which it asked her questions about  both cats 
health. Allianz says it emailed the policy  documents within an hour of the call, and it also sent the 
documents by post at Mrs Es request.
In September 2017 the vet arranged for D to have some dental  work done under general  anaesthetic. 
Mrs E made a claim for the costs, which were just over £570. Allianz  turned down the claim. It said 
that when she took out the policy Mrs E hadnt given it correct information  about  Ds clinical history,  
which included grade  two and grade three periodontal disease, cystitis and obesity.  If shed given it 
this information it would have put a range of policy exclusions on the policy including for mouth and 
oral disorders,  and a stated list of disorders  it said were related to obesity.
Mr and Mrs E complained about Allianzs response to the claim. They  said it hadnt sent her the policy 
documents until after it had turned down the claim,  and it hadnt acted  transparently. They  were  
unhappy with its response to the complaint,  and came  to us with a detailed  complaint.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with his findings so the 
complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive included only a brief summary of the background to this 
complaint but I have  considered all the evidence  including Mr Es detailed submissions. Ive also 
asked for some more information from Allianz,  Ill summarise the material evidence in this provisional 
decision. 
There are a number of areas of dispute, and Ill focus on the ones that I consider  to be central  to this 
complaint. I intend to uphold this complaint  in part, and Ill explain my reasons. 
the insurance  contract
Mr and Mrs E say that the policy was set up through their vet, under a free four week cover note. 
They say it wasnt set up during the telephone call with Allianz on 31 March  2017.  Ive noted  that they 
say the vet completed the insurance application after this call, and that they assumed  the vet would  
provide the health information to Allianz. They point out that the vet sold the policy. As they say the 
vet was an appointed representative of Allianz.  
Ref: DRN96956118Ive not been able to read the copy of the cover note that Mr and Mrs E have sent us. Allianz says the 
cover note for their cat C started on 30 March 2017 and would have ended  on 27 April 2017.  
Mrs E took out the full policy on 31 March  2017 with both cats C and D being  insured under the policy. 
It says the full policy started on 31 March  2017, and wasnt a continuation of the free cover.  
Allianz has told us that if Mrs E wanted to continue the free cover for an annual paid policy they could  
do so by contacting it directly. It says the vet wouldnt  be involved with this. Allianz hasnt contacted 
the vet about Mr and Mrs Es comments, even though the vet is its appointed representative. 
Ive read the promotional leaflet, which I see offered  four weeks free cover. During  the 31 March  2017 
call Allianz actually offered Mrs E two months free cover. Thats reflected in the policy  documents 
which show she didnt  have to make payments for the first two months.  It looks as though Mrs E has 
noted the two main premiums quoted to her for the annual policy and lifetime cover on the 
promotional leaflet about the four weeks  cover. That leaflet told her to call Allianz to activate the four 
weeks cover.  I appreciate Mrs E said shed  want to discuss the policy with Mr E, but she gave her 
bank details to Allianz to set up the policy. She didnt mention that she had four weeks free cover 
already during that call. 
Allianz told Mrs E during the telephone call that it would email the documents  with an hour. Its given 
us evidence that it did send  her an email on 31 March 2017. Allianz told her she could  cancel the 
policy without charge  within  14 days. It also says she asked it to post the documents to her on 1 April 
2017, and from the evidence seems  to have done this on 3 April 2017. So I think the evidence is that 
Allianz did send the policy documents both by email  and post. 
Having considered  all the available  evidence  I find it more likely  than not, on balance,  that the policy 
covering both C and D started during the telephone call on 31 March 2017  and not after the call as 
Mr and Mrs E suggest. I also find, on the evidence  that Ive seen,  that Allianz did send the policy 
documents to Mrs E as it says. Although they say they thought their vet would give Allianz their cats 
clinical history  Ive not seen anything  from either Allianz or the vet to support this. If they want to 
supply any further evidence from the vet about this then Ill be willing to consider  it.
So Ive provisionally found the insurance policy  started on 31 March 2017, during  a call when Allianz  
asked Mrs E a series of questions.  I now need to decide  whether Mrs E took reasonable  care in 
answering those questions and, if not, whether Allianz would have offered the policy on different 
terms.
did Mrs E take reasonable care in answering  Allianzs  questions?
The main issue in dispute is whether Allianz was entitled to add the policy  exclusions it did and then 
backdate them to the start date of the policy. 
The consumer law that applies in this case is the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 or CIDRA. In very brief terms CIDRA  says that a consumer must take 
reasonable care in answering an insurers  questions put to them  when taking out or renewing an 
insurance policy. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable  care - either  deliberately or carelessly  - 
then the insurer is entitled  to rewrite  the insurance  policy based on what  it would have done had the 
questions been answered correctly. 
In this case theres no suggestion Mrs E deliberately misled Allianz. But it says she was careless  
when it told her that D had been seen by a vet only for vaccinations.  It says that if she had told it 
about dental issues, cystitis and obesity in Ds clinical  history it would have  placed a list of exclusions 
on the policy from the start date. When  it received the full clinical history it realised her omissions and 
thats why it backdated the exclusions to the start of the policy. 
Ref: DRN96956119The significant clinical history was listed  in Allianzs final response letter  and Ive also seen the clinical 
notes. In summary, there are notes  to show D had grade 2 dental disease in August 2014 and grade  
3 dental disease in August 2015. In October 2015 D had a routine scale and polish.  
For the obesity there are references in the August 2015 notes that D would  be booked  in for a scale 
and polish once hed lost weight. (And as the scale and polish took place in October 2015 I assume 
hed lost weight at that point). In December  2014 D had cystitis,  and D is noted to be obese.  The 
notes say the vet discussed  his weight and said it was becoming a real problem and that weight was 
a big factor in feline idiopathic  cystitis. D was started on a branded obesity food at this point and was 
told to see the veterinary nurse.  His pulses werent palpable because  he was obese. Again in August 
2015 the weight loss diet was discussed, with the aim of reducing his weight  to 5 kilograms.  In 
October 2016 the notes say Ds weight  was up, and he was on the obesity food.
Allianz says Mrs E should have told it about  Ds dental disease and obesity in response to its 
questions where it asked  her whether  D was in good health; whether  hed suffered  from any illness or 
injury or been  unwell either now or in the past,  regardless of whether  hed been  seen by the vet for 
the problem; whether  hed been seen by the vet for any other reason; and whether hed discussed 
anything else with her vet about D, where it needed to know  about  any potential signs of illness or 
injury even if the vet felt there wasnt anything to worry  about at the time or even if the signs went 
away quickly.  In response to these questions Mrs E told Allianz only that D went to the vet once a 
year for his vaccinations.  
Ive considered Mrs Es explanation  about why she didnt  tell Allianz about  the issues in Ds clinical  
history that Allianz says she should have mentioned in response to its questions. She and Mr E say:
The dental work  D had was carried  out some time before  the claim,  to maintain his healthy 
teeth. This was just to clean his teeth. Both cats (and their previous cat) have six-monthly 
health checks.
Allianz didnt ask about  Ds weight  at the time the insurance  was taken  out. They were dieting  
D using the branded obesity food, following the regime  recommended by and supervised  by 
their vet. But they cant control  the food he consumes when  not with him, as hes free to roam 
and scavenge.  At his last medical  check D had lost weight. Also,  D is a big cat, with a 
particular type of large cat  Maine-coon - within  his breeding. They acted  to control  his 
claimed obesity only because his vet recommended  it. 
Allianz should have carried out due diligence and they couldnt  be expected to know all of 
Ds clinical history.  That was available at the vets practice  and they thought  the vet would 
provide it to Allianz at the time of application, and not at the time of claim. 
Mrs E cant recall being asked detailed questions about Ds health over the phone. (Mr E has 
said that Allianz was firing  questions  at her). But she does recall mentioning  that D had a bout 
of cystitis some time previously and that he had had some periodontal work  carried  out to 
prevent further problems  occurring.  As to Ds weight  this didnt occur to Mrs E that this was a 
condition which would affect the insurance cover. Ds physical capacity wasnt impaired by his 
weight. They couldnt have known about Ds health before they acquired him. 
The practice owner has told them D was not obese. 
If Mrs E had known about the policy exclusions  that Allianz would add she wouldnt have 
taken out the insurance. 
Their vet has supported Mr and Mrs E, saying that:
Ds teeth  were excellent  after the October 2015 dental treatment with no sign of disease. Mr 
and Mrs E had been using dental  homecare  products after this and his teeth were  checked 
regularly. At his 2016 vaccine his teeth were good.  At the 2017 vaccine some early  
periodontal disease was noted and Mr and Mrs E booked him in for treatment straight away. 
On closer inspection some early  resorpative lesions were noted, which required extraction. 
The claim should  be reviewed.
The vet also said that D was overweight at the time of taking out the policy  but Mr and Mrs E 
were already undergoing a strict  weight loss regime and D had already lost a good amount of 
Ref: DRN969561110weight. The vet considered the broad spectrum exclusions  (relating to obesity) should  be 
reviewed and, at the very least, removed when  D reaches an appropriate  weight. 
Ive listened to the 31 March 2017 call, and Ive thought about all the comments  made by Mr and Mrs 
E and Allianz. 
I think  that taking reasonable care Mrs E should have told Allianz that D had had treatment  for dental 
disease in 2015, even if his teeth  had improved in the following years.  I think this was an illness, and 
this illness, coupled with the treatment, meant it was something Mrs E should  have told Allianz  about 
in response to its questions. She says she recalled telling Allianz about this but I didnt hear this in the 
call recording Ive listened to. 
I also think  that taking reasonable care Mrs E should  have told Allianz, in response to its questions, 
that the vet had discussed  with them the need to reduce their cats weight, because  of concerns  he 
was obese. I say this because the vet advised weight reduction specifically in relation to Ds episode 
of cystitis, where the vet said it was a feature in feline  idiopathic cystitis. Also, the vet recommended a 
diet food and asked them to regularly bring  D in to be weighed, which they did. Mrs E didnt as she 
thought, mention cystitis during that call. 
I know Mrs E thought the vet would give Allianz information.  But I dont think this was based on 
anything Allianz told her during the telephone call. And Allianz did warn  her about  the importance of 
answering its questions with care, saying that if she didnt then it could result in a claim being declined 
and could affect  the cover she had for the cats. 
would Allianz have  offered  the policy on different terms?
Under CIDRA Allianz only has a remedy  against Mrs E if it was a qualifying misrepresentation. To 
be a qualifying misrepresentation:
The consumer  made a misrepresentation  in other words they failed to take reasonable  care 
when answering the insurers questions; and 
The insurer shows that without the misrepresentation  it would not have entered into the 
contract at all or would have done so only on different terms.  
Ive already made a provisional finding that Mrs E didnt take reasonable care.  But Ive also 
considered whether Allianz has shown  that without the misrepresentation it would  have entered the 
contract on different  terms; that is, that it would have placed exclusions  for particular conditions on the 
policy from the outset. 
Allianz has given us its underwriting guidelines in place  at the time Mrs E set up the policy. If shed  
told Allianz that D had had treatment  for dental  disease then Im satisfied it would  have put a policy 
exclusion for mouth and oral disorders on the policy from the outset.  D would have to go 24 months 
from the last treatment date before Allianz would  review  this policy exclusion.  
So I provisionally find Allianz was entitled to put the exclusion for mouth and oral disorders on the 
policy backdated to its start date. This means that it was fairly entitled not to pay the claim for Ds 
2017 dental treatment, under the mouth and oral disorders exclusion. 
Allianzs underwriting guidelines for obesity  say that if the policyholder tells it the cat is, or has been 
obese, then in all cases the veterinary practice must be contacted  to find out if the animal is clinically  
obese  so Allianz would have to confirm obesity at policy inception. The exclusions placed on the 
policy for obesity are the ones that Allianz has applied;  that is for leg, hip and shoulder, hormone, 
heart and respiratory  disorders. The exclusions are reviewable once the animal is at the correct  
weight. The underwriting guidelines say that this must be confirmed by the vet and not on the average 
weight statistics for the breed, and the correct weight must have been maintained  for six months. 
Allianz says its underwriter  will look at each individual case to consider any long term problems  that 
particular animal has, and it will re-underwrite as necessary.
Ref: DRN969561111I provisionally  find that Allianz was not entitled to put the exclusion for obesity related disorders, as 
listed above, on the policy from the start date. I say this because:
Allianz has referred to various entries in Ds veterinary clinical  notes, suggesting  D was obese 
before (and after) the policy start date. Theres an entry  from August 2016 saying Ds weight 
should ideally be 4.5gk. But Allianz  hasnt  given  us any evidence to show that its contacted 
the vet to find out if D is clinically obese, in line with its underwriting guide. 
In fact, the evidence provided to Allianz by Ds vet is that (as stated above) D was overweight  
at the time Mr and Mrs E took out the policy. The vet stated D had undergone a strict weight 
loss regime and had already lost a good  amount of weight. The vet does suggest that D was 
not at the appropriate weight , but importantly hasnt confirmed that D was clinically obese at 
the time the policy was taken out.  
So based on the available evidence I dont consider Allianz has shown, based on its own underwriting  
guidelines, that D was clinically obese at the time the policy was taken out. In the absence of that, 
Allianz hasnt  shown that there is a qualifying  misrepresentation under  CIDRA. 
This means  I provisionally find that Allianz must remove the policy exclusions relating to obesity, 
backdated to the policys  start date. As this is a lifetime policy,  Allianz will not be entitled to re-apply  
the obesity related exclusions at the policy  renewal  dates  - it can do this only for annual policies.
Mr and Mrs E have said they wouldnt have taken  the policy had they known about  the exclusions. I 
do see their point. But I dont  think it was Allianzs fault that it didnt tell them  about the exclusions,  
given that it didnt know about  Ds visits to the vet about his teeth and obesity at the time they took out 
the policy.  
the policy  premium
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Allianz hasnt reduced the premium for the policy even though its 
excluded a number  of disorders from cover. Our adjudicator has explained they will need to raise  this 
issue a separate complaint, and I know Mr and Mrs E have made  that complaint to Allianz.  So I make 
no findings on this issue in this decision. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to require Allianz 
Insurance Plc to remove the policy  exclusions it has placed on Ds policy for obesity related disorders, 
backdated to the policys  start date. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9695611