K820x#14The complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs T bought the single premium policy when she took out a loan in 1995. The loan included 
an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs T and Lloyds  agree the policy was sold during a meeting in branch. During this meeting, 
Lloyds should  have taken reasonable steps  to make Mrs T aware  she had a choice about 
buying the PPI. 
In reaching my decision, Ive thought about Mrs Ts comments alongside the limited  
documents Lloyds  has been able to provide. Ive also considered what  I know  about the way 
Lloyds sold these policies  in general, to decide  whats most likely to have happened. 
Although Lloyds cant give me copy of Mrs Ts loan agreement, it has been able to give me a 
copy of the type of agreement it was using at the time. Nothing Mrs T has said leads me to 
think she was given  anything different  to this. This sets out the cost of the PPI under the 
heading Optional Loan  Repayment Protection. And it shows  tick boxes to indicate whether 
PPI should be included in the loan or not. I think its likely Mrs T would  have seen this and 
any conversation she had with a Lloyds  representative would have reflected this. I think  
overall, its likely that Lloyds made it clear this was an optional policy and  at the time     
Mrs T chose  to buy it.
Ref: DRN93583902Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mrs T, so it shouldve  taken reasonable steps  to 
make sure it was right for her. From what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time,  I think it 
was right for Mrs T. I say this because:
Mrs T was eligible  for cover under the policy.
Mrs T says she would have got generous sick pay benefits. In the event of a 
successful claim,  the PPI wouldve covered  her loan repayments for a maximum of 
12 months if she became unemployed. If she was unable to work  due to sickness  or 
an accident, the policy wouldve covered her loan repayments up until the loan was 
repaid or she was better  whichever came first. This wouldve been  in addition  to 
any sick pay she received. 
Mrs T says she had some savings and shares at the time. But having the policy  
would have meant Mrs T couldve used her savings to pay for other essential costs if 
she was too unwell to work or became unemployed.  And it would have also meant 
she didnt need to sell her shares. 
Looking at Mrs Ts circumstances, I dont think there was anything that would have  
made it difficult for her to make a claim. For example, she didnt  have any existing 
health concerns  or unusual working  patterns that werent  covered by the policy.  
As far as Im aware the policy wasnt unaffordable for Mrs T.    
Mrs T would have  got back only a limited  refund  of the PPI premium  if she cancelled 
the policy early. But I havent  seen anything  to suggest she thought  shed repay the 
loan early. So, I dont  think this meant the policy wasnt right for her  or that better 
information about this wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ive also considered the information Mrs T was given about the policy.  Looking at this I think  
its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But  as Ive 
mentioned above  - Mrs T doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those  things. 
And I think Lloyds could have explained  the costs of the plan more clearly. The sample loan 
agreement didnt show how much  interest  would be incurred on the policy. But it looks like 
the missing cost information  was for a reasonably low amount. And given how long the 
policy couldve paid out for, Mrs T would  have got back quite a bit more  than she paid for it.
So even if Lloyds had given Mrs T clearer, or more complete, information about the policy, I 
still think she wouldve taken it. And I say this for the same  reasons I think the PPI was right 
for her. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs T has lost out because  of anything Lloyds 
mightve done wrong. 
Ref: DRN93583903My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9358390