K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has set off a debt using funds 
from another account, which  has left him in difficulties.  
background
Mr T had a Mint branded credit card with RBS. This credit card account had a repayment in 
March 2017 and was last used in April 2017. No further payments were received  to the 
account after that. 
Arrears notices were sent to Mr T in June 2017.  RBS also called  Mr T but he refused to 
continue the call. And in a following call Mr T said he was unable to continue as he was due 
to board a plane. As RBS received no payments  or payment proposals from Mr T it sent a 
default notice  on 31 July 2017. And because there was still no further payment or proposals,  
the account was terminated on 22 August 2017 and Mr T written  to and informed.  
RBS employed a collection agent,  who also contacted Mr T about  the arrears  on the 
account. But as Mr T didnt recognise  the debt, as the debt didnt appear to be in his name, 
payments werent  made. Mr T says he made enquires of both the collection agent and RBS 
but received no further information.  
In January 2018 and March 2018 RBS wrote to Mr T to warn him that it might  use its right of 
set off. And it used  this right on 9 April 2018  moving over £6,000 from Mr Ts account  to 
repay the balance  of the card. During this time the account and its debt was also sold a third 
party. Mr T was written  to and notified of this. 
Unhappy with the set off as he couldnt  now complete renovations on his house,  Mr T 
complained to RBS.  But as he didnt  get a response he asked us to look into the matter. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. She was satisfied Mr T ought to have 
recognised the debt was his  although there  had been a typing error in the spelling of       
Mr Ts first name, it had always  been  like this, even when the account was being  used  and 
repayments made. She was also satisfied RBS had followed  the correct  process to notify   
Mr T of the debt and of the subsequent default and termination of the account  although  
these had been sent to Mr Ts old address this was because he hadnt updated his address 
with the bank. And she found the right of set off notification had been sent to the right 
address and the bank had followed the required process correctly. 
Mr T didnt  accept the outcome. He sent us a copy of correspondence sent in June 2018 
which said there was an amount  still outstanding  on the account. He also said he had 
become unwell and couldnt provide any further  information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Im sorry  to hear Mr T is unwell. I hope  he is recovering. 
Ref: DRN93062942Im satisfied Mr T ought  to have recognised the debt was his. I accept  his first name  was 
spelt incorrectly, but it had always been  spelt this way on this account. I understand Mr T 
now accepts the debt is something he has to repay,  but would like the set off refunded  and a 
payment arrangement agreed. 
I would only ask the bank to refund the set off if I found it hadnt followed the correct process 
or if the funds removed  were for essential  livings expenses  such as food, bills etc. I 
appreciate the money removed was to be used for renovations but there  was still over 
£9,000 in the account after the right of set off had been used. Im not persuaded Mr T was 
left without funds  for essential living expenses.
Mr T was sent arrears notices,  a default  notice and informed of the account termination.  I 
can see from the records provided they were sent to Mr Ts old address. But that was 
because he hadnt  updated the account address. And although he had other accounts with 
the bank, these werent linked such that any address updating would have been automatic. 
RBS employed a tracing agent to locate  Mr T and when he was contacted by them he 
continued to argue he didnt recognise the debt. Ive already found he ought to have known 
the debt was his. And I can see RBS wrote to him twice to warn him that it was going to 
exercise its right of set off. These  letters were  sent to Mr Ts correct  address. The vast 
majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly delivered, and Im satisfied its most likely 
they were received. 
RBS has followed the requirements set out by the regulator to use its right of set off, a right 
which is also a general legal principle. And as Mr T was provided  fair warning the bank was 
going to use that right and was given a chance to make alternative arrangements  to pay the 
debt, I find no basis on which to ask it to refund that money now.    
Mr T was sent information in June 2018  that said the debt was outstanding. But that letter 
gave the position as at January 2018 and the set off was used after that. And I know  Mr T 
has received letters  notifying him the debt is clear, as he sent us a copy  of these. So the 
letter makes  no difference  to my findings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject  my decision before 
25 February 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9306294