K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains about a faulty car she bought  with credit provided by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background 
In January 2019 Miss D bought a car under  a hire purchase agreement financed  by VWFS. 
She complained about a clunking noise coming  from the brakes. There is a dispute about 
whether she raised  this issue within 30 days  of acquiring the car, but it is not in dispute that 
this is a known  issue with the make  of car she had. In May VWFS told her that it would repair 
the problem once it had received the relevant  parts, which  were  expected  to arrive soon. 
Meanwhile it offered  her £500 for her inconvenience.
Miss D did not accept that offer. In June she brought this complaint to our Service.  VWFS 
later told us that, contrary to what it had first thought, the relevant parts had already been 
available in April.  It increased its offer to £1,000. For those reasons, our investigator thought 
that VWFS had done enough to resolve  this complaint. She thought  that the repair  could 
have been carried  out in May, when VWFS  first told Miss D that it had the parts it had been 
waiting for (shortly after its final response  letter), and that £1,000  was fair compensation for 
the short delay  (about seven weeks). She said that as the car could be repaired, and Miss D 
had first complained  in April, there  were  no grounds to reject  the car.
Miss D asked for an ombudsmans decision, and so this case  has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The earliest mention  of the problem in VWFSs  contact notes is on 3 April.  However,  there is 
a slightly earlier mention of the problem in the Vehicle History, where there  is an entry  for 27 
March. However, that is still more  than 30 days after she bought the car. I havent seen any 
evidence that the issue was raised  any earlier, so VWFS was entitled to try to repair  the car 
before Miss D could  reject it.
I have seen an email to Miss D dated 24 May 2019  only four days after the final response 
letter  telling her that the parts were now available to order, and concluding with so  we 
can organise the repair whenever you are available.
So although  VWFS initially  misled her, that did not last for long, and the repair  could indeed 
have been carried  out in late May. I think that £1,000 is fair compensation for a delay of 
almost two months.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited to pay Miss D £1,000, and to arrange  the repair of the brakes to be carried out at no 
cost to her.
Ref: DRN99572262Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9957226