K821x#15Mrs F says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (Uncle  Buck) irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs F says the 
loans were unaffordable and Uncle Buck should have seen from her credit history  she wasnt  
creditworthy.
background
This complaint is about five short-term loans  Uncle Buck provided to Mrs F between  
February and December 2016. Mrs Fs borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 08/02/2016 29/04/2016 3 £200.00
2 29/04/2016 29/07/2016 3 £400.00
3 29/07/2016 05/10/2016 3 £500.00
4 21/10/2016 01/12/2016 3 £600.00
5 01/12/2016 Outstanding 3 £700.00
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Fs complaint and thought none  of the loans  should  have been 
given. This was because  the credit checks for loan one found  that Mrs F had already taken 
three loans  with other short-term loan providers. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed but did offer to uphold loans  four and five. 
Mrs F didnt  accept the offer. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN91117982the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Fs complaint. After  doing so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
As our adjudicator explained, the credit checks made by Uncle  Buck show that Mrs F 
already had borrowing from three other  short-term lenders. Uncle  Buck has said there is 
nothing inherently  wrong  with this as there was no indication that Mrs F wasnt  making her 
repayments on time and therefore doesnt  mean she was having problems managing her 
money. 
But I disagree. I think Mrs F was struggling  to manage her finances. As well as having 
borrowing with other short-term lenders, her borrowing behaviour with Uncle  Buck would 
suggest she was struggling to manage her finances.  Loan one, which  was for £200, was 
repaid on 29 April 2016, on the same  day Mrs F took loan two for double  the amount of 
£400. Loan two was repaid on 29 July and again, loan three was taken out the same  day for 
the larger sum of £500. This continued with loan four taken out on 21 October, two weeks 
after loan three was repaid, this time £600  was borrowed. Loan four was repaid on 
1 December, and again another loan was taken the same day for £700. So Mrs F was repeat 
borrowing, and for increasing  amounts each time. 
I think this shows Mrs F was struggling,  and particularly taking account of her disposable 
income of between £784 and £963 per month. For the first loan in February  2016,  where  the 
monthly repayment figure was £95 and Mrs Fs disposable income was £963, Mrs F was due 
to repay  a payday  loan she already had for the amount of £508  as well the monthly 
repayment due on the five-month instalment borrowing  of £400 (£80 per month). So, the 
repayments made up a significant proportion of Mrs Fs income. She was also in arrears on 
another loan,  taken  in May 2015, when the credit search was completed.
Uncle Buck  has said the increased lending doesnt necessarily mean  the lending  was 
unsustainable and it refers to Mrs F repaying  loan three early.  But I dont agree this is 
Ref: DRN91117983evidence of sustainability. It could equally be the case that Mrs F was in effect juggling her 
finances by repaying  a debt early and then taking out further credit to finance  current 
borrowing. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks  lending history with Mrs F, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Fs case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
loan four. I say this because:
As Ive mentioned  above, Mrs Fs first loan was for £200 and by loan four was three 
times the amount  £600. Uncle Buck ought to have known that Mrs F was not likely  
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
At this point Uncle Buck ought to have realised Mrs F was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mrs F was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Mrs Fs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs F was provided with new loans within days  in most cases  of settling the 
previous one. 
Mrs F wasnt making any inroads  to the amount she owed Uncle  Buck. Loan five was 
taken out ten months after Mrs Fs first. And it was for a much  larger  amount. Mrs F 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs F lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing  from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Fs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans which Mrs F borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans one to five and 
Uncle Buck  should  put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
The outstanding balance  due on Mrs Fs loan five has been transferred to a third party. 
Uncle Buck  should  buy the loan back if it can. If Uncle Buck cant buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs F towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN91117984B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs F which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mrs F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results  in Mrs F having made  overpayments then Uncle  Buck should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Uncle Buck should then refund  the amounts calculated  in A and B and move  to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Mrs F. However, if there  is still an 
outstanding  balance then Uncle Buck should try to agree an affordable  repayment 
plan with Mrs F. 
E) Remove any adverse information  recorded on Mrs Fs credit file in relation to loans 
one to three. The number of loans taken from loan four onwards means any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans four and five 
should be removed from Mrs Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Fs complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9111798