K820x#14Complaint
SG, a property management company,  complains  that East West Insurance  Company 
Limited unfairly declined  a claim made  on a building  warranty.
SG is represented in this complaint by Ms M, so Ill refer to her directly  in my decision.
All references to East West  include their appointed  agents.
Background
I will set out the key events below which are relevant to my decision. However, I want to 
reassure both parties that I have read and carefully  considered everything that has been  
provided.
SG manages a property  which  includes 108 flats covered by a ten-year warranty  provided by 
East West. The start and end dates of the warranties fell between  2001 and 2011.
In 2007, SG contacted the insurer to report an ingress of water to the property.  The insurer 
agreed that SG could carry out investigations  to determine the cause of ingress. As a result  
of the investigations the cavity trays in the roof were  found to be defective.  The cavity trays  
were replaced in 2008 and the insurer covered the cost of the repairs.
In 2013, SG again contacted the insurer to say there  was a recurrence of water ingress. 
Investigations were completed  by the insurers loss adjuster.  It was concluded there  was 
dampness entering underneath the cavity trays. SG completed further investigations and 
provided a scope of works to the insurer which was accepted. Further  works were 
undertaken to repair the areas  around  the cavity  trays in 2014 and 2015.
In March 2016, SG approached the insurer again to say the water  ingress  was continuing.  
East West appointed  a loss adjuster to investigate who concluded the water  ingress  was a 
result of two factors; the flat roof covering  had failed, and the roof outlets were  inadequate  
and insufficient.  
East West declined SGs claim as it said these items were considered to be a new defect 
causing water ingress. And as it wasnt notified until 2016 it was deemed  the defect was 
reported after the policies expired in 2011.
SG disagreed with East Wests  decision to decline the claim. It said the current water ingress 
was a continuation of the original claim and was connected to the original defect it reported, 
so the current ingress shouldnt  be treated as a new claim. East West maintained its position 
to decline the claim  so Ms M, on behalf of SG, referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything  and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She 
considered the expert reports and found  there  wasnt any evidence  there was an 
undiscovered defect  in the roof which existed at the date the property was built (a latent 
defect). She also found there wasnt any reference to a defective roof in the reports which 
supported the repairs in 2007 and 2013.
Our investigator concluded that the water ingress  from the defective  roof was reported 
outside the insurable period, and as she couldnt  find any evidence  the roof had caused 
Ref: DRN94801552water ingress prior to the policy lapsing, or that the two causes of ingress were linked, it was 
reasonable for East West to decline the claim.
Ms M disagreed with our investigators findings.  She said the claim had been  ongoing since  
2003, and repairs  were also completed on the property in 2003  and 2005.  Ms M said         
East West should deal with the current water  ingress under the previous claim. Ms M added 
that if the insurer had replaced the roof in 2003 this would have resolved the water ingress 
completely. She said the cause of ingress was linked as it had continued  in the same  
locations as before, so it was clear it was a continuing issue.
Our investigator responded and said that there was no loss adjuster  appointed for the 2003 
and 2005 claims.  So there  was limited evidence  available to consider these  claims.  She said 
the insurer didnt  need to deal with the current ingress as a continuation of the previous 
claim as there was no evidence to show the ingress  reported in 2016  was linked to previous 
ingress. She added  that she hadnt  seen  any evidence that the repairs to the cavity  trays 
werent effective.
Ms M, on behalf of SG, requested an ombudsmans decision  so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint and I will explain why.
In order for a claim to be accepted, the onus is on the insured party  to show that an 
insurable event  has taken place. And its not in dispute here that there is still water ingress 
occurring at the property. But our service  would only require  an insurer to cover the cost of 
repairs if it can be shown the insurable  event happened when  the policy was still in force.
In this case, I can see the ten-year warranty period for the insurance started around 2001 
and expired around 2011. So what I need to determine is if there is any evidence the cause 
of water ingress reported in 2016  can be linked  to any events that happened during the 
warranty period. I will also consider whether there  are any terms under the policy which  
mean this claim should succeed.
Ive read the terms and conditions of the policy. Part 3 of the policy   the Structural 
Insurance Period  section covers the period in dispute. And it states,  We will indemnify the 
Buyer during the Structural Insurance Period against  the cost of reinstating those parts of the 
New Home which have been subject to Major damage, caused by a Latent Defect. The 
policy goes on to define a Latent Defect  as A defect in the New Home that existed at the 
effective date of the Final  Certificate but which was undiscovered or not reasonably known to 
exist
Ive considered whether the current report of water ingress can be considered a latent 
defect. The loss adjusters report from 2016  states  we  can confirm that there is major 
damage in the form of water ingress  which  is due to a premature failing of the flat roofing 
system i.e. felt. The report also states all of the roof is covered by either paving slabs or 
timber decking  or gravel or soil, I am of the opinion that this is a major contribution to the 
failure of the roof covering.
Ref: DRN94801553Ive not seen anything to dispute the loss adjusters findings  here. As such I am not 
persuaded the water ingress reported in 2016  can be considered  a latent defect  under the 
terms of the policy, given that the main cause  has been attributed to a premature failing of 
the flat roofing system.  So on this basis it seems  reasonable  for East West to decline the 
claim.
But I also need to consider whether there is anything to show  the failure  of the flat roof felt 
i.e. the cause of the water  ingress can be linked to any of the previous ingress events SG 
reported. The loss adjuster report from 2016 also makes reference to the previous repairs  
carried out and states these  repairs may well have reduced  the water  ingress  but will not 
have stopped the main area of water ingress  through damage (sic) felt.
Ive considered the previous loss adjuster  reports. The report from November 2014 states 
The cause of the water  ingress has been established as defectively  installed cavity trays at 
all of the stairs. And the earliest report Ive seen  from 2007 (and commissioned by SG) 
states the DPM (damp proof membrane) sagging below the level of the weepholes is 
resulting in a build up of water in the cavity traythe current  installation cannot be remedied 
and the only effective remedy is to have remedial  cavity trays installed
So based  on the evidence I am satisfied the causes  of the ingress are different and as such  
should be treated  as two events, not a continuity of the same claim. I havent  seen anything 
from the evidence  provided to show  the repairs to the cavity trays werent effective  there 
were some years between claims,  and I havent  seen  anything from the previous reports  to 
suggest the flat roof failing was a cause prior to 2016. 
Ive considered Ms Ms comments that replacing the roof entirely in 2003  would have 
stopped the cause of the water ingress,  and that may well have been  the case. But I would 
need to see evidence that sufficient  investigations had been done to justify replacing the roof 
at the time. And based on the limited information I have from that period, I cant see this was 
discussed. The first report  to discuss the investigations  in 2007 states, Our inspection was 
restricted to the top floor and roof levels of the stair cores and did not extend  to any other  
part of the building.  So it is reasonable to assume  the wider  roof and felt covering wasnt  
inspected at this point, and Ive not seen anything to show it was inspected earlier either.
So, having  carefully considered everything, I think East Wests decision to decline the claim 
is reasonable and I wont  require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M, on behalf of 
SG, to accept or reject  my decision  before 28 September 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9480155