K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Easi-Drive Limited didnt arrange for his car to be properly repaired 
when they managed an accident claim for him.
background
In August  2018,  Mr F had an accident that wasnt his fault. He didnt make  a claim against 
his motor insurance policy. But used the services of Easi-Drive an accident management 
company (AMC).
Mr F drove a licenced taxi and, as part of the repair to his taxi, the independent engineer  
said his AC condenser and oil cooler  should  be replaced. Mr F said his taxi was repaired and 
returned to him. But said when  he went to use his air conditioning several months later it 
leaked. And said he was told by another garage that his AC condenser and oil cooler 
needed replacement.  He complained to Easi-Drive.
Easi-Drive said the initial  independent engineers report had recommended  the replacement  
of the parts.  But the repairing garage on stripping  the car said the AC condenser could be 
repaired. And a supplementary report was sent to the independent engineer  who they said 
accepted this. Easi-Drive  said, as it was now several months later,  the damage to the AC 
condenser wasnt  accident  damage  but wear  and tear.
Mr F wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Easi-Drive hadnt  shown him the supplementary report. And that Easi-
Drive had accepted the repair of the AC condenser and oil cooler  and hadnt  instructed the 
repairing garage to replace  the parts as authorised by the independent engineers  report. He 
said that Easi-Drive should reimburse  Mr F what hed paid to get these now replaced. And 
that they should compensate Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
Easi-Drive didnt agree as they said they couldnt be held responsible for the work done by 
the garage. And Mr F had use of the taxi for several months after it was repaired. Easi-Drive 
asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
Easi-Drive as an AMC aim to provide their customers  with a hire car, if needed. And arrange  
for the damaged vehicle to be repaired,  or determine the pre accident value of the vehicle if 
it is beyond repair. They would then look to recover the costs  back from the third-party 
insurer (TPI). Easi-Drive  has a responsibility to mitigate these costs, as the TPI could reject 
payment if they thought the costs werent valid.
After Mr F was involved in the accident,  an independent engineer  assessed  the damage  
done to his taxi. The independent  engineer doesnt  work specifically for either  party and 
would have made their own assessment. And its not in dispute that the independent 
engineers report  said Mr Fs AC condenser and oil cooler should be replaced.  But this didnt  
Ref: DRN90268232happen. So, what  I need to determine  is whether  I think  the actions of Easi-Drive  were fair 
and reasonable in their dealings with Mr F.
The repairing  garage said that instead  of replacement the damaged  AC condenser  and oil 
cooler could be repaired.  And I can see that in September  2018, Easi-Drive told the repairing 
garage:
the client  mentioned the condenser should  have  been replaced.. but a visual test was 
done on this? Our engineers gave the authorisation to replace this so we would really have 
requested this to be changed
Easi-Drive said that there was a supplementary report sent to the independent engineer  and 
theyd agreed for the repairs to be done.  But Ive not seen this supplementary  report  or any 
evidence that the independent  engineer was asked for their report  to be changed or agreed  
for the repairs, rather than replacement,  to be done.
From what  Ive seen, the repair was done  by the repairing garage and Easi-Drive accepted 
this despite Mr Fs clear insistence  that the damaged parts  should  be replaced. As outlined  
above Easi-Drive as an AMC would only look to arrange the repair  of a damaged vehicle and 
not carry out the repair themselves. But I havent  seen any issues  about the liability for 
Mr Fs accident  or any challenge by the TPI about  the costs  associated with the independent 
engineers report.  And as the independent engineer had said the AC condenser  and the oil 
cooler should be replaced,  I think this is what Easi-Drive should  have arranged with the 
repairing garage to be done. And when asked by the repairing garage about  whether to 
repair or replace  they should have  instructed  them to replace.
I can see that the repairing garage wanted Mr Fs taxi removed after they said they had 
completed the repair, or they would start to add storage costs. Mr F has said he wasnt  
prepared to collect the car until hed confirmation that the parts had been replaced. And he 
said he didnt sign the satisfaction note because  of this. He said the note was signed  by 
Easi-Drive. And Ive no reason to doubt  this.
I can understand Easi-Drive not wanting to add storage costs  to Mr Fs claim as these costs 
could have been challenged by the TPI. But these costs would have only been added  while  
Mr Fs taxi was awaiting collection. And I dont think they would have been added  while  his 
taxi was still under repair.
Mr F has said he wasnt happy with his taxi when it was returned to him and has said he 
went back to Easi-Drive  as early as October  2018 about this. But neither Mr F or Easi-Drive 
have shown evidence  of these discussions.
But in May 2019,  Mr F had to take his taxi into a garage as its air conditioning was leaking.  
And the garage  recommended  the replacement of both the AC condenser  and the oil cooler. 
Easi-Drive has said the damage  could  be due to wear and tear and not as a result of the 
accident. But its not in dispute that these parts werent replaced but repaired. And as the 
repaired parts were now older there  would I think have been additional wear  and tear from 
when Mr F had his accident. But if Easi-Drive  had arranged for the replacement of the parts 
at the time of the accident when I think they should have, I dont think  Mr F would have 
needed the parts replaced in May 2019. 
Ref: DRN90268233So, I dont think Easi-Drive acted  fairly  and reasonably in agreeing to the damaged parts  
being repaired and not replaced. And so, to put things right Easi-Drive should refund Mr F for 
the cost of the replacement of his AC condenser and his oil cooler.   
I can understand the trouble and upset this has caused to Mr F especially as he wasnt  at 
fault for the accident that caused the damage to his taxi. And he has had to ask for work  to 
be done that had already been authorised  by an independent engineer. So, I agree with our 
investigator that Easi-Drive should  also pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused to 
him.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Easi-Drive Limited to:
pay £1217.46  for the AC condenser and £440  for the oil cooler;  and
pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9026823