K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Paymentsense Limited  mis-sold a terminal  hire and payment 
processing agreement  to him.
background
Mr C met a representative of Paymentsense and entered into the agreement for his business 
on 22 January 2019. But in March  2019 he complained saying that the charges were  higher 
than hed been told by the representative.  He contacted  Paymentsense to tell it he wanted  to 
end the agreement as a result and he stopped using the services on 10 April 2019.  But it told 
him hed have to pay termination fees and charges.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. There was no record  of the 
conversation between Mr C and the sales representative. But he thought  Mr C had provided 
persuasive evidence  in writing setting out why the agreement  was mis-sold to him. Mr C 
relied on what the representative  had told him and so did not read the agreement in detail  
before he signed  it. Our investigator said that Paymentsense should  cancel  the agreement  
and refund any payments Mr C had made  after 10 April 2019 and pay him £75 for 
inconvenience.
Paymentsense did not agree. It said that Mr C had signed and read the documentation  and 
accepted the terms.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2019  and I set out below  
what I said.
There is a fundamental  difference  between  what Mr C and Paymentsense say was agreed.  
Mr C says in his letter to Paymentsense of 7 May 2019 that the rate agreed was to be lower 
that he was being charged; that the contract  was only to be for 24 months and not 60 
months; that there were hidden charges  so called bolt on costs which doubled  his 
charges; and that he had to show the termination costs for an existing provider and would 
only receive a refund  of these less VAT.
Paymentsense has provided a copy of the documentation he signed.  I said I thought that the 
cost of terminal hire and length  of the contract  was clearly set out. And that the costs  of 
payment processing  and the bolt on costs were  also specified. In addition Paymentsense 
says he was offered  six months terminal hire free. 
Paymentsense has shown that the agreement was emailed to Mr C and that he accessed  
this and signed it electronically. This was a business commitment and I thought it was 
reasonable for Mr C to read the agreement to confirm it met his requirements  and what  had 
been agreed.
I couldnt know exactly what was said in the meeting. And while  Mr Cs letter  sets out his 
understanding that is strongly disputed by Paymentsense. Mr C has not been  able to support 
what he says with any evidence. Id considered everything Id been  told about the 
circumstances of that meeting and whether there were reasons say why an error  was made 
or there is an explanation for the significant differences in position. But I hadnt  identified any 
Ref: DRN98314032such reasons and as I couldnt fairly  resolve exactly what was said was going  to need to rely 
on the signed agreement.  
Paymentsense has since said that Mr C could terminate the agreement  at 18 months if he 
paid the costs to that date. Hes seen that as an admission of liability. But thats not right  
because as this was a regulated agreement he had the option under the contract to 
terminate this after 18 months. Paymentsense has offered  to do this and arrange  for the six 
months free hire payment.  
I appreciated that our investigator gave Mr C an opinion upholding his complaint. So hed be 
unhappy that Id reached  a different view. But my assessment  is an independent one. And 
also because it is different I said it was provisional at that stage. This meant Mr C has the 
opportunity to provide any further  evidence  and comments to me. That also applies to 
Paymentsense and I said it would be helpful if in response to this provisional decision it set 
out the current costs  to terminate the agreement  and alongside  this repeats the terms of its 
original offer to resolve the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paymentsense said it was happy for me to proceed on the evidence  I already have.
Mr C did not agree and through  his representative  made a number  of comments. I 
understand his position to be that the sales representative changed the agreement after hed 
signed it and handed the computer tablet back. He was told he had two weeks  to come out 
of the contract  but he could not get hold of the sales representative to do so. And he 
stressed that he wanted an agreement for two not five years.  He again maintained he was 
told the cost would be £15 a month but that it was a lot more.
Im going  to consider those points. Id looked at the case  notes  held by Paymentsense  and 
what Mr C had said before. I understood his position to be that he had not read the 
agreement and trusted what hed been  told and only complained  when he saw the actual 
costs. His explanation now is different to that. If the agreement was changed  then he must 
be saying he saw something different on the computer first and had read it. And if he was 
trying to cancel this in the first two weeks  that would mean hed seen a different one too.
Ive seen the systems  audit for the agreement which is clearly in place to demonstrate that it 
has been signed electronically.  Im satisfied that this shows  Mr C was sent a copy of the 
agreement, opened it and signed  it and then a copy was emailed  to him. There  is no scope I 
can see for the agreement to be changed after he signed it. Theres also no evidence of him 
trying to cancel the agreement in the two weeks after signing it. The first record  
Paymentsense has of any contact about  his complaint is 5 March  2019.
Im afraid that the further comments do not persuade me that the agreement was mis-sold 
and that I shouldnt for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision rely on the signed 
agreement as the key evidence here.
Paymentsense did not set out as I asked the current figures  relating to the offer to terminate 
the agreement. So Im going to rely on and copy below what has been  offered here:  There 
Ref: DRN98314033were two options either to terminate at 18 months  or at a date before then. The information 
below sets out the position should  Mr C chose one of these.
In its response of 12 March 2019 Paymentsense said
the below has been  actioned in order to resolve  the complaint:
 I have processed  a request  to pay out your half price  terminal offer,  this will mean the sum of 
£144.00 will be paid directly  into your bank  account
 I have requested that the lease company collect 6 months of payments  from Paymentsense on your
behalf
 You will contact your old provider  and settle the account to close it. You will then send a picture  of 
the termination invoice and the proof of payment as a reply to this email so that I can process  a rebate 
of the net of VAT amount.
 You will also send in any fees you have paid for the previous service since  February  2019 (Please 
note this does not include any fees paid directly as transaction processing  costs)  I will then refund 
these to you.
Finally, please  accept  this as written confirmation that following the completion of 18 months of your 
service and if the account billing is up to date, you can close  the agreements and be subject only to 
the 30-day notice costs. The early closure fee and the re-stocking  fee will be covered  by 
Paymentsense.
And in its email of 7 May 2019 it said that:
If you were  to close your account now, outside of the 18-month clause, it would cost a total of 
£652.80. Please find the breakdown below  (all figures are inclusive of VAT):
Remaining rentals until the 18th month - £280.80
FDGL restocking fee - £228
Paymentsense early  termination fee - £144.
These latter figures would  clearly  need  to be adjusted to take account of further payments 
made which is what Id asked for.
Im afraid I wont be asking Paymentsense to do anything more  than its already offered to.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Paymentsense Limited 
does not need to do anymore that its already offered to. Its made a reasonable offer to 
settle the complaint as set out above  and I require it to comply  with that offer in the terms set 
out above if Mr C wants  to terminate the contract.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9831403