K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that a car she is financing through an agreement with Santander  
Consumer (UK) Plc, is of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Miss G took receipt of a used car in December 2018. She financed  the deal through  a five 
year hire purchase agreement with Santander.  The car cost £14,528.  The car was just over 
three and a half years old and had completed  37,800 miles when it was supplied.
Shortly afterwards Miss G noticed  some problems  with the paintwork and the interior. Miss G 
contacted the supplying  dealership and said the car had a number of scratches and marks 
both inside and out. Miss G said there  was a broken taillight. Miss G said that the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  and she wanted  to reject the car. The dealership didnt agree and 
said that Miss G had an opportunity to inspect the car and she accepted  the condition of the 
car.
So Miss G complained to Santander who explained  that she could withdraw  from the finance 
agreement as she was still within the cooling off period  but she would still have  to pay for the 
car. Santander didnt  agree that Miss G should  be allowed to reject the car. They  said that 
this was a second hand car that would have some  signs of wear and tear and that the 
damage must have  been noticeable  at the point of supply  so they suggested  Miss G had 
accepted the car in that condition.
Miss G disagreed and she referred  her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought
some wear  and tear of this type could be expected on a vehicle of this age and mileage and 
she noted that Miss G had signed  a document at the point of supply to say shed inspected  
the car and that the condition of the bodywork would have been evident to her. So she didnt 
think Santander needed to take any further  action.
But Miss G disagreed and she asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman  saying in 
summary that it was her decision about the satisfactory quality of the car. The car was not as 
described and the dealership pressured her into buying the car and did not let her inspect it 
in the daylight.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN98721662Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Santander, as 
providers of the credit are responsible and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them  to put 
this right.
But the relevant  legislation says that when we consider whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality if the pre contract inspection should  have  revealed faults with a car, and the 
consumer goes ahead with the deal anyway, then these faults should not persuade  us the 
car was of unsatisfactory  quality.
I can see that Miss G signed to say shed been  given  an opportunity to inspect the vehicle 
and agreed the handover condition of the car. In addition, Miss G says the following in her 
email to the adjudicator,
First time when I saw the car ( just after a brief look, I already knew that wasnt what 
in was looking for), and I have expressed my disappointment to K (the agent who 
dealt with the purchase), that the condition of the car wasnt as they described over 
the phone. It was full of scratches, the paint of the car was really  worn down, prove 
that the car hasnt been really looked  after from the previous owners,  thus I didnt 
want to go ahead with the purchase, (sic)
Miss G says that the car went  for a clean and valet and she was assured that the car would 
look better. This suggests  to me that Miss G was given an opportunity  to inspect the car in 
detail and indeed  she identified the scratches  on the bodywork and overall condition of the 
car. 
Miss G says it was dark when  the car was returned  for further inspection  but nevertheless if 
she wasnt happy about the condition  of the bodywork on first inspection  I would expect  her 
to have checked whether those scratches and marks had been repaired. It seems  unlikely if 
the car was only going for a valet that those scratches  would have been  repaired. 
Miss G says it was dark and she wasnt given  an opportunity to inspect the car a second  
time. Miss G says she was pressured  into the purchase. I havent seen any evidence to 
support this. If the car wasnt what Miss G was looking  for, she had the option to leave  the 
dealership in the car she had arrived in. If Miss G wasnt  happy about the condition of the car 
she could have arranged  to return and inspect the car again.  
Ive reviewed images of the damage  to Miss Gs car and I think  its fair to say that they are 
cosmetic and are to be expected of a car of this age and mileage.  I dont  think  they are 
enough for me to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality or not as described. I cant  
see that the car was described to Miss G as immaculate or that any description was given 
about the bodywork or interior. In these circumstances I dont think  it is fair to say that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so I cant ask Santander to take responsibility.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ref: DRN98721663ombudsman
Ref: DRN9872166