K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
which it called the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
background
Ms M took out a URCA in 2008. The fee was £10 a month. The account was taken out at the 
same time as a mortgage, and as a result of opening the URCA with the mortgage  Ms M 
received £150  cashback into the account.
The URCA provide a 15% discount on home building and contents  insurance, plus phone  
insurance, travel insurance, car breakdown cover and home  emergency  cover.
Our adjudicator looked at Ms Ms complaint and didnt think the URCA was mis-sold. Ms M 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Ms M was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she given a clear choice in taking the account.
I think its more likely than not that she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee 
free bank account with Bank  of Scotland and she continued to have a fee free account with 
Bank of Scotland throughout the time she had the URCA. So she knew she could have an 
account without  a fee. Ms M has also said that she discussed the URCA with Bank of 
Scotland and remembers she was interested  in the discount on the home and buildings 
insurance. And Ms M has signed  the application form for the account. So I think Ms M was 
aware she had a choice and chose  to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Ms M to take it, but Ms 
M says it did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Ms Ms 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, Bank of Scotland  needed to 
provide Ms M with sufficient information about  the URCA to make an informed choice. And in 
recommending the URCA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the URCA 
was a reasonable fit for Ms Ms circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the URCA was suitable for Ms 
M. I say this because she took immediate advantage of the £150  cashback with her 
mortgage and the discount of approximately £4.40 per month  on her home building  and 
contents insurance. Between them these would have covered Ms Ms fee for over 2 years. 
And as Ms M knew the account was optional, she could have closed the account after that if 
she wished to. She was also a new home  owner  and so could have benefitted  from the 
home emergency cover, and the car breakdown cover was useful to her if she was in a car 
Ref: DRN99575982that broke down whether she was driving or not. Ms M registered for the mobile  phone  cover 
in 2010, suggesting she was interested in making use of that protection  if she needed it.
Ms M has said that at the time of the sale she didnt  have  alternative insurance cover for any 
of these main benefits or any personal circumstances that would stop her taking advantage 
of them.
So in my view, the URCA was suitable  for Ms M, and there was no information that she 
wasnt given that would  have put her off buying  it.
I understand Ms Ms comments about  what happened in later years on her URCA, but once 
Ms M had chosen to buy the URCA and taken advantage of the benefits,  it was her 
responsibility to decide  how to use the account  thereafter.
So in my view Ms M knew she had a choice  about the URCA and decided to take it, and the 
URCA was suitable for her so she has not lost out as result of anything  Bank of Scotland  
may have  done  wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9957598