K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy.  She wants compensation for her costs and delays in the claim.
background
Mrs A was involved  in an incident  with another  driver and she said the other driver admitted 
liability and agreed  to pay for repairs. But then the other driver decided  to go through  
insurers. UKI said there wasnt enough evidence to show that the other driver was at fault.  It 
decided that split liability  was the best possible outcome. Over a year later,  UKI decided  to 
take legal  action against the other insurer  to hold the other  driver  liable. But its solicitors 
didnt receive requested  information from Mrs A and so the case was dropped.
After Mrs A complained, UKI offered to close the claim, refund Mrs As policy  excess  and 
restore her No Claims Discount (NCD). It also offered her £150 compensation for its delays 
in the claim. But Mrs A was unhappy with this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  both 
parties had caused  delays.  He thought  it wasnt  UKIs  fault if the solicitors wanted  further  
information from Mrs A. He thought UKI was entitled to settle the claim as it chose based on 
the evidence available. He thought its offer of compensation  and redress  was very fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs A replied that the other driver and she had exchanged  text messages showing that she 
admitted liability. She said UKI had told her that the damage claimed by the other driver 
didnt match damage to her car and so her story  was implausible. She said the solicitors 
could have obtained the information they needed from UKI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs As frustration that this claim for minor  damage has been  ongoing  for 
some years. I can see that shes determined to be held not at fault for the incident. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
UKI is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Mrs A to take over,  defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mrs A has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably 
investigate a claim and consider the evidence before making its decision. 
Ref: DRN98211302I can see that the evidence UKI had to consider was the other drivers diagram of the accident 
circumstances, the other insurers allegations, the damage report for Mrs As car, photographs of 
Mrs As car and text messages between the parties. There were no independent witnesses or 
CCTV evidence available. The other driver said she wasnt claiming for her damage as it was 
very slight and so theres no damage report for her car.  
The other insurer disputed liability. UKI sent the text messages to the other insurer but it said that 
they didnt include an admission of liability, so it maintained its stance. UKI drew the 
inconsistencies in the damage claimed for to the other insurers attention. But it still maintained 
that the other driver wasnt at fault and would defend this in court. But Mrs A didnt provide the 
solicitors with the further information requested. And so it decided it wouldnt be able to defend 
the claim. As neither side would accept liability, I think the claim was recorded correctly as split 
liability. 
Mrs A thought the solicitors should have found the information they needed in UKIs file. I can 
understand her frustration with being asked to provide again information that shed provided 
previously. But I cant consider that here as they are a separate business to UKI. In any case, I 
dont think its unusual for solicitors to ask for further information in order to better defend a claim. 
So I cant hold UKI responsible for this. 
So I think UKI reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available. I think it 
initially decided that split liability was the best possible outcome, but later decided that there may 
be sufficient evidence to defend the matter in court. I know Mrs A thinks UKI should have decided 
this earlier. But as she didnt co-operate with the solicitors, I think this didnt affect the outcome of 
her claim as neither side would accept liability and so the claim was settled as split liability. So I 
think UKI fairly and reasonably decide on split liability as its entitled to do by the policy terms and 
conditions. 
UKI agreed there had been delays in the claim. I think its offer of £150 compensation for this is 
fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances. UKI has also offered to close 
the claim, refund Mrs As policy excess and restore her NCD, with the warning that another 
insurer might still view the claim as fault as UKI didnt recover its costs. I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require UKI to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9821130