K820x#14complaint
Miss W complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance policy.
background
Miss Ws car was damaged during an accident  in January 2016. She claimed on her policy.  
One of esures  approved repairers (AR) repaired the car and returned it to Miss W in early  
March 2016. In the latter part of March 2016, Miss W said she had a minor accident where 
she hit a small wall causing  scrapes  to the bottom of the front bumper. She didnt claim for 
that damage, but had her front bumper repaired and resprayed by her own garage at the end 
of March 2016. 
Miss W complained to esure about  a number of things she wasnt happy about. She later 
brought her complaints  to our service. Our service has already adjudicated on a number of 
Miss Ws complaints, which I will not address in this complaint.  
At the end of 2017, Miss W complained to esure, she said:
esures AR damaged her two fog lights. She had them replaced by her own garage at 
her own cost. She said esure should  reimburse her.
esures AR also damaged the under guard, which  protects the underside  of the 
engine from debris and water splashes.  She said esure should pay to have the under 
guard replaced.
During her policy renewals in 2016 and 2017, esure unfairly increased her premiums.
As esure didnt uphold  Miss Ws complaint, she asked our service  to look into it. One of our 
adjudicators considered the complaint. He suggested that esure should pay for the two fog 
lights and for a new under guard. He also recommended esure should pay Miss W £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she suffered. He didnt think  that esure  
treated Miss W unfairly during her policy renewals in 2016  and 2017 by increasing the 
premiums.
As both Miss W and esure didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 20 February 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Miss W, but Im not likely  to uphold her complaint.  Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss W has made  a number  of detailed points and Ive considered  
all those carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues relevant to this complaint. My role is to decide if esure have dealt with Miss W 
in a fair and reasonable  way.
the fog lights and the under guard
Miss W believes that esures AR damaged her two fog lights and under guard when 
they were in possession  of her car for repairs back in early  2016. She said she didnt 
complain about  these until the end of 2017, because  she only found out in November  
Ref: DRN924818322017 that the AR had handled those parts of her car when she saw the ARs  estimate  
and breakdown of the work  they did to her car. She said she didnt know  that there  
would have been any need for the AR to touch  those parts of her car to repair  the 
damage. Miss W also said that both she and her own garage suspected that her car 
may have  been  involved  in accident while it was in possession of the AR.
Miss Ws complaint in relation to the fog lights was that they gathered water and 
condensation. She said that although  she didnt  complain  about the problem  when 
she got her car back from the AR, her garage  did tell her that both fog lights casings 
were broken.  She said they hadnt  been screwed  in as they should have been,  but 
instead a glue like substance had been  used to stick them  into position. She said as 
she couldnt afford to replace the complete fog lights, she had the casings replaced in 
June 2016, but reused the existing bulbs which were still working. She said that her 
garage also noticed that the same time that the under guard was broken. As she 
couldnt afford to have  it replaced, her garage secured it with a cable tie. Miss W said 
that as the AR removed and later refitted the two fog lights  and the under guard 
during their repairs, they were responsible for the damage.
esures senior engineer didnt agree with Miss W. He pointed  out that after the AR 
returned the car to Miss W, shortly after at the end of March  2016, she suffered a 
frontal accident whereby she hit the bottom  of her front bumper,  which is where the 
under guard is situated. He said that may have caused the damage she has 
complained of. The photo provided by Miss W shows the concrete curb she hit. The 
engineer also said that its possible the damage  to the fog lights was as a result of 
wear and tear given  her cars age. He said the AR didnt cause the damage.  
esure also said that as Miss Ws garage  replaced  her fog lights  casings in June  
2016, the problems they suffered  after that date were the responsibility of her garage 
and not esure. And there were problems after Miss Ws own garages  work, because 
Miss W sent esure  an estimate of proposed work to be carried  out dated  2018, in 
which replacement of the two fog lights was listed. But Miss W said that the only 
reason her garage  replaced the casings was because they had been damaged by 
esures AR. But during her 2016 complaint to our service, when Miss W was telling 
us about the work her garage did to the front bumper, she said some  of the work was 
withheld because she wanted to buy fog lights for her car. But she made  no 
mention that the casings were damaged and that she had to buy them for that 
reason. So Im not persuaded that the AR damaged the fog lights.
In relation to the under  guard, esures  engineer said that it wasnt  damaged  by the 
AR. He said that the likely cause of the damage was that the car must have run over 
something or hit an object. He also said that it was possible  Miss Ws accident at the 
end of March  2016  may have caused the damage.
Miss Ws belief  is that because the AR removed and refitted the two fog lamps and 
the under  guard, that they damaged them. But I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to support  Miss Ws belief,  especially as esures engineer has given his 
professional opinion to say that there are other possibilities as to how those  parts my 
have been damaged. I also dont believe there  is any convincing  evidence to support 
Miss Ws belief  that her car suffered an accident  while it was under the ARs care. So 
I think that esures decision to refuse to pay for the fog lights  and the under guard 
was reasonable.  So I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN92481833premium increases
Miss Ws 2016 renewal premium, which she accepted, had increased  by over 35% 
from what she paid in 2015. And the 2017 premium she was offered,  which  she 
rejected, increased  by over 40% when compared to the 2016 premium.  Miss W 
believes the increases were excessive. It might help if I explain that we're not the 
industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer  how much it can 
charge for its policies.  And our service generally takes  the view that, providing they 
treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the 
same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to 
cover a risk.
Miss Ws premium  did go up significantly.  So I can understand  why she was 
concerned. But Im aware that in the policy year before  the 2016 renewal Miss W had 
two fault claims against her. Its usual in the insurance industry for insurers  to 
consider drivers with recent  fault claims as a higher risk than those  without such 
claims. And insurers reflect that in their premiums.  So while Miss Ws premium  had 
increased, I don't think that means that esure have treated her unfairly. 
esure provided me with information to show how Miss Ws premiums in 2016  and 
2017 had increased. That information is commercially  sensitive  so I can't share  it with 
Miss W. But having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that esure treated Miss W in 
the same  way as it would other customers in similar  circumstances. So I think  they 
calculated her premiums reasonably.
I have seen that esure wrote to Miss W before the policy renewals informing  her of 
the increases.  It was open to Miss W to choose not to renew the policy if she wasnt 
happy with the increased  premium. So Im not intending to uphold  this part of the 
complaint. 
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. esure didnt comment.  Miss W 
reiterated her main points  again.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.  
 
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
  
Ref: DRN92481834
Ref: DRN9248183