K821x#15complaint
Miss M complained about a number of loans she took out through  a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Miss M says she was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Miss M took out 11 instalment loans from Sunny between  February 2018 
and July 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Ms borrowing with Sunny, based  on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators recently  re-looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should 
be upheld from the point of loan number  5 onwards. Sunny made an offer to otherwise settle 
the complaint  but this wasnt agreed  to by Miss M. Ive been  asked to make an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when  thinking  about Miss Ms 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Miss M 
could repay  all the loans she was given  in a sustainable manner. These  checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
Ref: DRN99906672whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss M could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss M including assessing  her income,  expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that at the 
time all this information showed  that she would be able to make the loan repayments she 
was committing to. Ive thought about  this and also looked at the overall  pattern of lending 
history with a view to seeing if there was a point  at which Sunny should reasonably have 
seen that further  lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  Ive considered  whether, 
at some point, Sunny  should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans 
to Miss M. 
Ive taken account of what  Ive said above,  about the length of the lending relationship, and 
applied it to the circumstances of loans  1  4 in this case. And I dont think its clear  enough  
that what Sunny would have would have seen, from its checks, would have suggested loans 
1  4 were either unaffordable for Miss M or that the information from the checks  it carried  
out undermined the income or outgoings Miss M had herself declared. 
I accept that Miss M may have already been  finding managing her money quite  difficult  at 
this point. However, theres  no clear record that the type or depth  of credit checks  carried  out 
at that time would have exposed these issues. So Im afraid I dont agree that Sunny knew 
its lending was unsustainable for loans  1 - 4. I therefore dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 5, the situation called for a different 
approach. Thats because by that point Miss M been  borrowing rapidly and this was her third 
loan application  in less than 2 weeks. Miss M was also applying for this loan whilst loans 2, 3 
and 4 were still outstanding,  so I think this pattern specifically shows she was having  
difficulty managing  her money. I note this pattern continued and an ongoing  feature of 
Sunnys lending was that loans were advanced  whilst others  yet to be repaid.
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing 
their money in this way are less likely to be able to sustainably  repay  a loan. With this 
information, I dont  think Sunny  ought to have  lent her the money for the loan 5 or those 
following this. I dont  think it was responsible  to do so.
In addition to the above,  from the point of loan 9 onwards,  there was an additional and clear 
pattern of repeated lending evident  in my view. And there was an obvious dependency on 
high-interest, short-term  lending evidenced by this, Miss Ms ninth loan in just 4 months. 
So Im also upholding  Miss Ms complaint in respect  of loans 9 -11 as Sunny repeatedly lent 
to Miss M in an unsustainable manner because:
 
Ref: DRN99906673these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use, over an extended time 
period; and
the length of time over which Miss M borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Miss M, Sunny should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 5 -11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 8, 9, 10 and 11 and treat 
any payments Miss M made towards  these loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Miss Ms loans 8, 9, 10 and 11 accounts as Ive directed results in Miss 
M effectively having made  payments above the original  capital borrowed, then Sunny 
should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple  interest  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
If reworking Miss Ms loans 8, 9, 10 and 11 accounts leaves an amount of capital still 
to be paid, then Sunny can use the total refund  for any other outstanding loans to 
offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind  
Sunny that it should take a sympathetic view when  seeking  to agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Miss M for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ms credit file in relation to loans 
5, 6, 7 and 8.
the number  of loans taken from loan 9 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 9 - 11 should be completely 
removed from Miss Ms credit file.
If any of the debts were sold then Sunny  must attempt buy back  the debt or 
otherwise ensure  the above is strictly complied with
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN99906674my final decision
I partially uphold  Miss Ms complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken  Out Repaid Amount
1. 12/02/2018 26/02/2018 150
2. 16/02/2018 26/04/2018 150
3. 10/03/2018 31/07/2018 200
4. 16/03/2018 17/04/2018 100
5. 21/03/2018 26/04/2018 100
6. 17/04/2018 26/06/2018 250
7. 30/04/2018 02/07/2018 250
8. 02/06/2018 Outstanding 200
9. 26/06/2018 Outstanding 200
10. 02/07/2018 Outstanding 100
11. 31/07/2018 Outstanding 150
Ref: DRN9990667