K821x#15Complaint
Miss D complains, in summary, that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  PLC (RBS) has refused to 
refund transactions (made using her RBS credit card) to a binary options investment company 
(the merchant).  
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this complaint, 
and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached  a copy  of my provisional decision, which 
forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response to 
my provisional conclusions by 8 February 2021. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Response to my provisional findings
Miss D responded  and accepted my provisional  conclusions. RBS didnt respond to my 
provisional conclusions.  In light of this, I see no reason  to depart from the resolution I proposed  
in my provisional decision.  
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland PLC should refund Miss D the deposit-
transactions. It should:
-Refund the deposit-transactions  totalling  £26,200; 
-Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement.
-If the Royal Bank of Scotland PLC deducts  tax in relation to the interest element of this 
award it should provide Miss D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision 
Complaint
Miss D complains, in summary,  that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) has refused to refund 
transactions (made using her RBS credit  card) to a binary  options investment company (the merchant).
Background
Ref: DRN94359502In 2016, Miss D visited the merchants website whilst looking for a way of investing redundancy money  
from a previous job. Miss D states, whilst scrolling  through information  on the website, a live chat 
activated and a conversation was initiated  with the merchant and she saw the following  message:
Are you new to Binary  Options Trading? Are you looking for high returns for low risk?
Miss D responded to say she hadnt considered it before and had no experience of Binary Options and 
the person with whom  she was speaking  (seemingly an employee of the merchant responsible  for 
manning its live chat service) provided Miss Ds details to a customer  service advisor who would  phone 
her to explain  more.
Miss D says she was called by an individual who introduced himself as a Senior Account  Manager  
(SAM) for the corporate  division  for the merchant. The SAM advised that Miss D would  need to make a 
minimum payment of £200 to access the merchants  world-leading software  services and, in return, Miss 
D would be provided with an online trading account,  access to training webinars,  the services of a 
personal Account Manager, and all the necessary support services  - including customer  services  and the 
accounts department.
Miss D says she was informed  by SAM that the merchant offered a binary  trading  service with a high 
return on investment rate, enabling Miss D to increase her financial position  through  investments and 
ultimately withdraw such funds from her account.
The transactions below came from Miss Ds RBS credit card:
Miss D also made payments  totalling £14,000 to the merchant using a debit card with a third-  party  bank 
account (Bank B) from December 2016  March 2017. These payments are not subject  to this complaint 
and Ill explain why below.
Miss D states the merchant  negotiated trades on her behalf,  after her initial  deposit. Miss D states she 
would receive emails  introducing her to an investment  (described as guaranteed risk-free  trades  whilst 
noting its risk free, you have nothing to lose and lots to gain). The merchant would  ask for a deposit to 
allow such trades  to be made  on her behalf, following each deposit Miss D would sign an agreement to Date Supplier Payment method Amount
10 November 2016 The merchant Mastercard credit card £200
16 November 2016 The merchant Mastercard credit card £5,000
8 December 2016 The merchant Mastercard credit card £5,000
11 January 2017 The merchant Mastercard credit card £5,000
24 February 2017 The merchant Mastercard credit card £2,000
24 February 2017 The merchant Mastercard credit card £2,000
24 February 2017 The merchant Mastercard credit card £1,000
22 March  2017 The merchant Mastercard credit card £1,000
10 May 2017 The merchant Mastercard credit card £5,000
Total £26,200
Ref: DRN94359503authorise the trade to be undertaken. Miss D states  that by proceeding, she was led to believe that she 
was commissioning  the services  of a Case Manager to do this on her behalf.  Miss D would  receive 
investment advice from the merchant based on their personal expertise of the money markets and was 
coached through the various investments  it was making on her behalf.
Miss D states the website  appeared very professional  and she was shown successful trades being 
placed and with each  deposit, Miss D was told she was getting  closer to the funds in her account 
becoming liquid and therefore  closer  to being  available for withdrawal.
Having reached the required trading volume, Miss D submitted withdrawal requests in July 2017 and 
August 2017.  The merchant acknowledged  receipt of her withdrawal requests but failed to action them, 
despite Miss D chasing  it several  times. When Miss D tried to access  her account  in September  2017, the 
webpage failed to open.
Miss D reported  the matter  to the police, Action Fraud and the Financial Conduct Authority. Miss D asked 
Bank B to process  chargeback claims for her in January 2018. Her Bank B account was subject to a 
different chargeback scheme  and it processed successful claims for all the transactions  made using her 
Bank B debit  card.
Miss D wrote to RBS in January 2018 to process a claim for breach of contract  or misrepresentation 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. She asked for RBS to return
£21,321.09  which represented the balance in her account.
RBS declined  to process a claim for Miss D on the basis that the contract she entered into with the 
merchant was for the provision of an online account  and the accurate application  of deposited funds to 
that account.  It considered  the trades Miss D subsequently placed  did not form part of the contracted 
service, and, consequently, there was no breach.
Miss D complained to RBS about  its decision. RBS issued its final response on 12 February  2018 and 
reiterated its position on Section 75 and gave consideration as to why it couldnt process  a chargeback 
claim for Miss D. It stated the card scheme (Mastercard) recognises  that when  funds  are loaded into an 
investment account,  the Mastercard  service is considered  as described. Because  of this, RBS couldnt 
process a chargeback for Miss D.
Unhappy with RBS  response, Miss D brought her complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators  
didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Section  75 didnt apply  to the matter at hand because  the 
transaction was the merchant depositing money onto her account.
Miss D asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, so the case  has been passed  to me to 
decide.
My Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done  so, Ive reached different conclusions  to that of our adjudicator and I intend to uphold this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Chargeback
The chargeback process is relevant here. A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between  card issuers  and merchants,  under  the relevant scheme  rules. What this 
means is that RBS can in certain circumstances  ask for a payment made to be refunded. One of those 
circumstances is where the goods or services arent supplied or as described by the merchant.
Ref: DRN94359504A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result in a refund.  There needs to be a right to a chargeback  under the 
scheme rules. And under those  rules  the merchant or merchant acquirer can defend a chargeback  if it 
doesnt agree with the request. If a chargeback  is defended,  the card issuer (in this case  RBS) can make 
a second  presentment of the chargeback by providing further  supporting evidence. If it is still defended  by 
the merchant, it can ask the card scheme provider  to decide whether a refund should  be given. This final 
part of the chargeback  process is called  arbitration.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to process a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. But we 
would consider it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted where the rights exist and there is some 
prospect of success.
The Mastercard chargeback rules relevant to the date of Miss Ds transactions state that chargebacks are 
available to the card issuer for transactions in which any value is purchased for gambling, investment or 
similar purposes. However, issuers have  no chargeback rights related  to the use of these chips or value, 
unspent chips, or withdrawal  of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of 
such chips or value.
Based on Miss Ds claim that she couldnt withdraw her available balances, Im satisfied no chargeback 
rights existed for this point of complaint  alone.  However, having  clarified this matter with the card 
scheme, there may be limited rights  where the merchant does not make funds available for use. As the 
experts, I would have expected RBS to consider  whether  it had a suitable  chargeback rights based on the 
overall circumstances of the problem Miss D presented.
As Miss D could no longer access her account or her available funds, Im satisfied the limited chargeback 
rights were present  here. So, I think RBS acted unfairly by not processing chargebacks for Miss D.
Based on the successful chargebacks processed by Bank B and the strength of Miss Ds case, Im 
satisfied had RBS appropriately processed chargeback  claims for her, they would  have succeeded. Im 
persuaded Miss D wouldve  been able to recover  (at the very least) the available funds  on her account at 
the time (£21,231.09).
Section 75 Consumer  Credit Act 1974
Ive also considered whether it would  be fair and reasonable  to uphold Miss Ds complaint on the basis 
that RBS is liable to her under section 75, because this might give her additional  rights. As a starting 
point, its useful to set out what the Act actually says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  falling  within section 12(b) or
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim  against the supplier in respect of 
a misrepresentation  or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor,  who,  with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor
(3) Subsection (1) does  not apply to a claim 
a)under a non-commercial agreement,
b)so far as the claim relates  to any single item to which the supplier  has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100  or more  than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1.a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2.a transaction financed  by the agreement; and
3.a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4.but not a claim  which  relates to any single item which the supplier has attached  a cash price 
below £100 or in excess  of £30,000
Ref: DRN94359505Ill deal with each  requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt  seem to be any dispute that a 
credit card account  is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the act. And, Im satisfied here 
there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch  as there are three parties  
involved:
1.Miss D (the debtor)
2.RBS (the creditor); and
3.The merchant (the supplier)  as shown  on Miss Ds paperwork and RBS business file 
submissions.
The second consideration  is whether  the transaction  is financed by the agreement. Transaction isnt 
defined by the Act, but it has generally been given  a wide interpretation  by the courts  to include 
whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here,  Miss D has deposited funds to open an 
account in exchange for being able to open an account with the merchant and earn profits. Each 
subsequent deposit was made as a way of Miss D earning more  profits,  with the view of being able to 
achieve her trading volume  based  on the success she was seeing   in turn giving her access to 
withdrawing those funds  and profits. Given the exchange of money in return  for certain contractual  
promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction  for each  of the deposits (which  Ill call the deposit-
transactions) as defined by Section 75.
Again to finance is not defined  under the Act. An ordinary definition would  be to provide funds to do 
something. In Office of Fair Trading  v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster said in a passage  
with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance  approaching the matter in a common 
sense way must mean provide  financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer  clearly  
provides financial accommodation to its cardholder,  in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because 
he is given time to pay for his purchase under  the terms of the credit card agreement.
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Miss D had not used  her credit card she would  have had to find 
the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit and obtain the investment account this supposedly 
entitled her to, along  with having to find the cash to fund the supposed account to achieve the trading 
volume that unlocked access to her investment and profits.  So, its clear  that the deposit-transactions 
were financed  by the agreements with the merchant.
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important  to consider what  Miss Ds claim  is here. Its 
evident from her testimony and correspondence she provided that she feels she was tricked into 
depositing money with the merchant for the dual purpose of:
a)Stealing the deposit money; and
b)Encouraging Miss D to deposit larger  amounts.
Miss D has provided evidence  that the merchant was not operating legitimately  and believes she was 
misled into thinking it was.
This claim  that Miss D was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim  in relation to the deposit-
transactions. The claim must  also be one for misrepresentation or breach  of contract. In this case, if Miss 
D was told by the merchant matters that were factually untrue in order to trick her into entering into the 
deposit-transactions, her claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if the merchant made binding 
promises to her as part of that transaction and went on to breach these that would make her claim one for 
breach of contract.
Finally, the claim  mustnt  relate  to a single item to which  the seller has attached a cash price of less than 
£100 or more than £30,000.  Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is the value of each deposit-
transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the contract.
RBS has declined the claim under section  75 because it says the transactions  were no more than 
deposits onto a trading  platform. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing  more than transferring  
money onto another account, opened  for the purpose of speculating with the money, rather  than being  a 
Ref: DRN94359506payment that was used  to purchase goods. When funds are deposited onto a trading  account this isnt 
necessarily just a transfer of money between accounts, it may also have been paid in return  for 
something. In this case the merchant has made contractual promises in exchange  for the deposit 
transactions.
Miss D provided copies of emails from the merchant. Ive noted that on 10 May 2017 (the date of one of 
the deposits), Miss Ds account manager stated:
As we spoke  on the phone,  we are going to place a trade on the 7.7. You will receive insurance with no 
terms. On top of that we will erase the turnover from your account.
This evidences that the merchant was advising on the deposit-transactions, placing trades on her behalf 
using its expertise and assuring her the deposit-transactions would be secure. So, I consider the 
deposit-transactions to be more than simply moving money onto another  account.
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied that Section 75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transactions.
Ill therefore  go on to consider whether Miss D has a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider  Miss D has made a claim  of misrepresentation by the merchant  that claim being that it 
represented to her it was a legitimate enterprise  when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation  to be successful its necessary to show not just a false  statement  of fact 
but also that the statement  induced Miss D into entering into an agreement.
A false statement  of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant  was not likely  to be operating a legitimate enterprise  - one in which  Miss 
D could have ever received back more  money than she deposited, then it follows that any statements  
made by the merchant to the contrary are likely to be a misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Miss D could make money from the platform is likely  to suffice as entailing,  
by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a legitimate business, i.e. a 
legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably  trade.  And, Im satisfied that based on Miss 
Ds account of events, the evidence  provided and the nature of the situation, the merchant did claim that 
Miss D could have made money from the trading  platform.
That induced her into entering  the agreement
Again, had Miss D known that the trading platform was essentially  a scam designed to relieve investors 
of their money, rather  than a legitimate service, theres really little question of her not investing with the 
merchant. Consequently, should I be satisfied that the merchant  isnt operating a legitimate enterprise 
then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
In October 2017, the merchant was wound  up by the UK High Court.  It was noted that the merchant 
offered members of the public the opportunity to conduct binary options trading, and made claims as that 
prospective investors could earn an 81% return rate per trade.
It was further noted that the merchant was placed into provisional liquidation by the High court in August 
2017, on the application of the Insolvency Service, due to its concerns that the company were posing an 
ongoing risk to the public operation of its fraudulent  trading platform.1
Ref: DRN94359507Ive included further notes  about  the merchant  along  with another  company  wound  up for deploying 
similar deceptive tactics:
The investigation into both companies  found that they had attracted customers through viral internet 
marketing, offering  guaranteed fixed returns as set out throughout the above websites. Customers were 
not made aware of terms and conditions at the point of sale.
Those terms  and conditions were deemed to be onerous and unfair  on customers, requiring  them to trade  
30 or 40 times their account  balances  in order to make withdrawals. Even when some customers did do 
so, no pay-outs were made. Customers who sought withdrawals or repayments of their deposits  were 
mainly met with silence  from the companies, who were only contactable by email after the time 
customers signed up for trading.
In other  instances the companies had made unauthorised withdrawals from customers  credit or debit 
cards
Miss D also provided evidence  from the police  which  stated  it had investigated  the merchant from a 
criminal angle and that it found that the merchant was set up with fake documents to make it appear 
legitimate  and that it was operating from the UK which is was not.
Im persuaded  by the evidence Ive seen,  including the body of external credible  information about the 
merchant, to be consistent with Miss Ds testimony. And Im satisfied, based on this evidence,  that the 
merchant and its platform were not legitimate and were fraudulent.
This means that I think it has made misrepresentations to Miss D  specifically  that the merchant was 
running a genuine enterprise through which  she could  ever have got back  more than her deposits from 
the platform. Im also satisfied that if Miss D had known this, she wouldnt have deposited any money, so 
she was induced into the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, Miss D has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those  funds  on 
an investment platform and being able to withdraw  them. Each subsequent  deposit was made  with the 
promise that she was closer to withdrawing her profits.  Given  the exchange  of money  in return  for certain 
contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction (the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
Section 75 for each of the transactions debited from Miss Ds credit card account.
It follows, I think, that the merchant had contractual obligations:
a)To enable Miss D to use the funds on an investment  platform; and
b)To enable Miss D to withdraw  the funds once  she met the required trading volume.
Miss D said she understood she would be able to withdraw her funds once her required trading volume  
had been met. She would  be able to meet  the required trading volume  that was later explained to her. 
The terms  and conditions stated:
All funds can only be withdrawn when the preceding  stipulation has been fully met and fulfilled, this 
includes the original deposit  and all other subsequent deposits.
The preceding stipulation relates the required trading volume.
Ive noted an email from the merchant dated 15 August 2017  in response to Miss Ds withdrawal request 
which stated: Your account  is not eligible  for any withdrawal as there is a active  bonus on the account. 
As per the bonus terms and conditions, you need to trade to meet the volume.  So far you met 99% of the 
trading volume and still need  to trade for a total amount of £8,107 to make your account  liquid.
Ref: DRN94359508This supports Miss Ds testimony that the merchant set the value of the deposits Miss D needed  to make 
in order to realise her trading volume. Once Miss D achieved the required trading volume set out by the 
merchant, it acknowledged her withdrawal request  and then no longer responded. Access to the platform 
was subsequently  lost.
So, Im satisfied  both terms were breached  by the merchant. Miss D provided a copy  of her trading 
balance showing she had an amount of £21,239.09.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Miss Ds loss amounts to the full amount of the 
balance available on her platform at the time of her withdrawal request.
Putting things right
Ive established three grounds Miss D could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Chargeback:  Im satisfied that Miss D wouldve had recourse to recover her deposit-  transaction 
through the chargeback  scheme  had RBS processed a chargeback claim. This may have limited  
her claim to the available balances.
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Miss D has a claim for misrepresentation on the grounds that the 
merchant made  a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate 
enterprise that Miss D could earn a profit from.
Breach  of contract: Im satisfied Miss D also has a claim for breach of contract as the merchant 
breached the verbal and contractual promises to Miss D. Namely that she would  be able to use 
the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment platform and access  them freely once 
she achieved her trading volume. This provides another basis for recovery of the deposit-
transactions.
As a claim  for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, RBS should put Miss D back into the position  she 
would have been had the deposit-transactions totalling £26,200 not been entered  into. So, she should  
receive refunds of these amounts.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional decision  is that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC should  refund Miss D the deposit-
transactions. It should:
Refund the deposit-transactions;
Pay 8% interest  on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
If the Royal Bank of Scotland PLC deducts tax in relation to the interest element  of this award it 
should provide Miss D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Ref: DRN9435950