K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy that TSB Bank plc closed his account without warning or his consent.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
TSB blocked Mr Cs account  as it was concerned that a cheque that had been paid in 
was cancelled due to it being  reported  stolen. That was fair. It says it restricted  the 
account for about two months expecting  Mr C to contact it. He says TSB shouldve 
contacted him but its not for us to comment on its processes.
A couple of months later, having  heard nothing from Mr C, TSB decided to close  the 
account. It notified Mr C of this the same day but it appears he didnt get this letter  as 
he wasnt at the UK correspondence address it had sent it to. TSB says its records  
didnt show Mr C lived abroad. Its fair for TSB to have expected  Mr C to receive this 
notification.
TSB didnt give any notice of the account  closure but this was in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions. TSB followed  its own process in restricting and 
subsequently closing the account. And she cant ask it to pay Mr C any 
compensation. 
TSB has confirmed it made  no fraud reports and CIFAS has confirmed  theres no 
report from it. Mr C says an application to another bank  was declined but this doesnt  
appear to have been connected to a fraud  report from CIFAS.
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says hes 
not fully satisfied a CIFAS marker  wasnt  put against  his name  at some point. The person  
who wrote  the cheque says she didnt report it stolen. He thinks it will now be extremely 
difficult for him to obtain a UK bank account in the future. TSB has permanently jeopardised 
his financial position  and hes been  victimised.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has provided detailed  submissions  to support his complaint.  Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
The cheque Mr C paid into his TSB account was stopped as the issuing bank had it recorded 
as being reported stolen.  Mr C says the person who wrote the cheque  denies this. But 
whatever happened I think TSB acted reasonably on the information it had available  at the 
time by following its own fraud  process.  It returned the cheque  and put a block on Mr Cs 
account.
TSB says it expected  a customer in this position to contact it. But Mr C didnt as he lived 
abroad and didnt apparently use this account very often. Hes unhappy TSB didnt contact 
him but I havent  seen anything to suggest it was obliged to do so.
Ref: DRN91355412After a couple of months, and in the absence of any contact from Mr C, TSB made the 
decision to close the account in line with its terms and conditions. Given the situation it 
wasnt obliged to contact  Mr C in advance about this. And TSB is also entitled to decide who 
it wishes to do business with as a customer.  So, I dont think TSB did anything  wrong  by 
closing the account as it did.
TSB says it then wrote to Mr C advising  him the account was closed. It used his 
correspondence address in the UK. That was reasonable. Its unfortunate if this letter  didnt 
reach Mr C but that isnt TSBs fault.
Mr C also complains that an application hes made  with another  bank has been  declined. But 
Ive nothing to suggest this is as result of what TSB has done or recorded.  Its confirmed it 
didnt make a fraud report and CIFAS  has also confirmed there  isnt a marker about  this on 
its system, nor has there ever been.  I dont  think TSB can be blamed for Mr Cs application 
with another bank being declined.
I understand Mr Cs frustration at what has happened. And I recognise his strength of 
feeling. But overall I think TSB has acted fairly,  in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions and its own processes when dealing  with Mr C. And I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably ask TSB to do anything more or pay Mr C any compensation as hed like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9135541