K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that a used car he acquired  under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory  condition.
background
In October  2017 Mr O acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers. The car was six years  old and had a recorded  mileage  of just under 73,500.
Within four days of taking  possession of the car Mr O was concerned by its vibrating when 
braking and he took it to a tyre/brake specialist  as he thought  the wheels needed to be 
balanced. However, the inspection by this garage  revealed that the brakes pads were worn,  
the brake pipes  were  corroded and the constant velocity  joint gaiters (CV gaiter)  were split 
and leaking. This garage provided photos of the damage theyd found  to Mr O. 
Mr O says that he raised these findings with the garage that had supplied the car. Some 
repairs to the car were  undertaken under the warranty  but the brakes and CV gaiter  were  
considered wear and tear and so werent covered. Mr O was told that the car had passed 
its MOT only a few days  before hed acquired  it and that the condition of the brakes were 
noted as advisory meaning immediate action was not required and car was roadworthy. 
Mr O says he continued to experience problems with the car and so in January 2018 he 
requested that it be inspected by the manufacturer via a dealership.  This inspection  again 
raised concerns  about the brake pipes, CV gaiters,  wipers, suspension  and exhaust.  It listed  
those repairs it considered needed urgent attention on the manufacturers Visual Health 
Checklist. So Mr O approached Close Brothers to cover  the cost of the repairs.
Close Brothers didnt  agree with Mr Os request.  It asked for the car to be independently 
inspected. Mr O also contacted the warranty company about the condition of the car who 
again asked for the car to be independently inspected.  So in both March  and April 2018 the 
car was inspected.
The independent engineers report for the warranty company didnt look at the brakes as    
Mr O advised these  werent covered by the warranty. The engineer  said that the issues with 
the suspension and CV gaiter  were  part of normal wear and tear though  they did suggest 
these faults had been present at the point of sale. The independent engineer for Close  
Brothers reported that in his opinion the brake  pipes  wouldve been  corroded at the point of 
sale. The engineer also identified issues with the handbrake and the CV gaiters leaking.
Close Brothers agreed to pay for the repairs  relating to the brake pipes. It also offered to 
reimburse one months payment under the agreement  as compensation for Mr O being 
without a car for a period of time.
Mr O was unhappy that other issues identified by the main  dealers  inspection  werent 
covered by Close Brothers.  He said the car wasnt of a satisfactory  condition  at the point of 
sale. He says it would be fair for Close Brothers  to repair the remaining problems which  had 
been highlighted. He complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Os complaint  should  be upheld.  She said that 
Close Brothers hadnt accepted the CV gaiters and handbrake as its responsibility, as these  
were only raised as advisories on the cars MOT  that was undertaken in September  2017. 
Ref: DRN97616722But looking  at all the evidence  of the MOTs, the inspections and the photos taken she 
thought on the balance  of probabilities these  things had all been present at the point  of sale.
The investigator said she thought it was fair for Close Brothers  to refund the monthly  
payment to Mr O and to rectify all the outstanding repairs listed  as needing urgent attention 
by the manufacturer in their Visual Health Checklist that had been completed  at their 
dealership when the car had been  inspected. She also said Close  Brothers should pay Mr O 
£100 compensation for the delay in addressing his complaint about  the car.
Mr O agreed with our investigators opinion  but Close  Brothers has disagreed.  It said all the 
issues experienced by Mr O were relating to wear  and tear. The vehicle  hed purchased was 
six years  old and had over 70,000 miles on its clock. And the MOT  carried out shortly before 
the sale had only listed some these items as advisory - meaning the car was fit for purpose 
and roadworthy  at that time. It acknowledged  there  had been  differences  in opinion  about 
the state of the brake pipes, and so to be fair to Mr O had agreed  to cover the cost of these 
repairs. 
Close Brothers said Mr O had driven the car for over 17,000 miles since the point of sale and 
although it had at first failed an MOT  in September 2018 due to the CV gaiters, it had 
subsequently passed the following  day. This meant  the car was roadworthy and the fault 
with the CV gaiters wasnt as severe  as suggested.  
Overall, it didnt accept that further  repairs were required or that it should  pay further 
compensation.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers says that it should  be accepted that the issues  experienced by Mr O were 
due to the wear  and tear. It says the car wasnt new at the time he acquired it, and items had 
been heavily used and so wouldve been  approaching the end of their life. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) a vehicle  must be of satisfactory  quality 
and fit for purpose. It shouldnt be faulty or broken when purchased and should be of a 
standard a reasonable person would expect taking into account its age and mileage.  A 
used car isnt expected to be as good  as a new car but it should be roadworthy and reliable. 
In addition, the Act only governs faults that were present at the point of sale.  It doesnt cover  
problems that arise from using the car after that point, as that is wear and tear.
Close Brothers has accepted that the issues with the brakes were  probably developing at the 
point of sale and so has agreed to cover the costs of those repairs.  It also accepts that the 
leaking from the CV gaiters  was developing at the point of sale,  but says this is a common 
issue and disputes  that this was severe as the car passed its MOT shortly before Mr O 
acquired it. It says this shows the car was roadworthy at the time.
Looking at the evidence, Mr O experienced problems with the car within  the first few days of 
acquiring it. The first garage took a number of photographs  of the faults  found  which  
Ref: DRN97616723included the leaking  CV gaiters and corroded  brake pipes. Mr O also had the car inspected 
by the manufacturer around three months later. This inspection raised a number of issues  
some of which were marked as requiring urgent attention. The issue  for me to decide is 
whether, as argued by Close Brothers,  these were items that meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory condition at the time of acquisition.
Ive seen that the two independent engineers who inspected the car noted it as being of 
good condition.  And while  I appreciate the car wouldnt be like new,  the engineer who 
inspected the car on behalf of Close Brothers  found that the CV gaiters,  corrosion to the 
brake pipes  and the insufficient handbrake efficiency were  all developing and/or present at 
the point of sale. The engineer states  that he has taken the age and mileage  of the car into 
account during  his inspection, and that the car should be returned  to the selling agents for 
repair. He says that in his opinion the selling agent would have liability. So I think  its 
reasonable to say that in the independent engineers  opinion the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale.
I prefer this report to that of the other  independent engineer who inspected the car on behalf 
of the warranty company.  The second  engineer didnt examine the car as fully as the other 
one, having been told by Mr O not to look at the brakes. He stated that the issues 
complained of were  normally wear and tear, but didnt address the issue about satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale - so has provided  no opinion  on that. However, I have  noted  that 
this second independent  engineer concluded  that it was likely the issue  with the CV gaiter  
had been present at the point of sale.
Close Brothers has also raised the number of miles driven by Mr O. It says that Mr O 
wouldnt have been able to do drive as far as he has in the car if it had been  faulty.   
However, I have noted that when the independent engineer  gave his opinion as to liability  he 
was aware of the mileage at the point of sale, and again at the time of inspection. As 
someone who is independent, this engineer has given an objective  view and I think its 
reasonable that I rely on his report - particularly as his findings have been corroborated by 
the photographs and findings of the manufacturer (via the dealership).
Close Brothers says that the car had a valid MOT from September 2017 and that this 
confirms roadworthiness  at the point  of sale. Ive seen that the car originally failed an MOT 
for excessively corroded brake pipes, and that the issues of the CV gaiters and suspension  
were listed  as advisories.  The car then passed its MOT a few days later, but this time the 
brakes and CV gaiters were listed as advisories.  I accept that the handbrake is not 
mentioned at all. However, Im satisfied that passing the MOT doesnt mean that the opinion 
provided by the independent engineer is invalid. An MOT confirms that at the time of the test 
the car met the minimum road safety and environmental standards required by law. This is 
not the same test as being of satisfactory quality  as required under the Act. So although  
the handbrake isnt raised on the MOT, this wouldnt  mean such a fault wasnt present, but 
simply that the car passed  the required test for a valid MOT despite this.
Close Brothers has also said that as the car recently  passed  another  MOT this means 
further repairs are not required. However,  for the reasons given above I dont agree with this 
view. Im satisfied the car has been identified  as having had a number of faults that were 
present at the point of sale and which meant it wasnt of satisfactory condition at that time.
So looking  at all the evidence,  Im satisfied that the car acquired by Mr O wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and Im upholding his complaint.  Close  Brothers has 
already covered the costs  of the repairs to the brake pipes, but I agree with our investigator 
Ref: DRN97616724that it would  be fair and reasonable to require it to cover all the outstanding repairs listed  as 
needing urgent attention by the manufacturer on their Visual Health  Checklist. Im also 
asking it to reimburse one months  payment to Mr O (if it has not already done so) to 
compensate him for the loss of use of the car when it has been repaired, together  with £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to him trying  to have this matter  
resolved.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Os complaint.  Im asking Close Brothers  
Limited to do the following:
Cover the cost of the outstanding repairs listed as needing urgent attention on the 
manufacturers Visual Health Checklist.
Reimburse Mr O one months payment (if it hasnt already done so).
Pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to him 
trying to get his complaint resolved.
Close Brothers Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mr O accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
`
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9761672