K820x#14complaint
Mr Q says Gracombex  Ltd trading as The Money  Platform irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
the repayments took up most of his wages so he had to borrow  again. He thinks The 
Money Platform shouldnt  have lent to him because of this. 
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan The Money Platform  provided  to Mr Q in May 2018. 
Mr Q borrowed  £500 and he was due to repay around £650 after 42 days. I understand Mr Q 
hasnt made  any repayments  to the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Qs complaint.  Mr Q disagreed. He said that the he had 
many other payday loans  and they were  on his credit report. The lender should have 
checked this and not lent to him
As no agreement was reached  the complaint was passed to me  an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
The Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mr Q could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr Q provided  when he completed his loan application. 
Mr Q said he had a monthly  income  of around £4,500 and he had regular monthly  outgoings 
of around £1,300. This left him with a disposable  income of over £3,000. So it wouldve been 
reasonable for The Money Platform to think that the loan repayment was affordable.  
Mr Q has said that his credit report wouldve shown that he had significant other lending. The 
Money Platform did look at some credit reference  agency information and this confirmed he 
did have other unsecured  debts. But he hadnt had any recent difficulty  making  the 
repayments to these. And there  doesnt appear  to be any other  related  problems.  So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for The Money Platform to lend because of this. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely The Money  Platform  was made 
aware of any financial  problems Mr Q mightve been having. Or anything  that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate Mr Qs circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for The 
Money Platform to rely on the information  it obtained.
Ref: DRN97606092So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment The Money Platform  did before 
approving this loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9760609