K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited and its agent S mis-sold a home 
emergency policy. They want a refund  of premiums and compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a gas central  heating breakdown policy with Aviva,  administered  by S. 
They felt that it had been mis-sold as their boiler  (covered by the policy)  was obsolete as 
parts to fix it werent available, but they werent told about this until their boiler needed repair.  
They noted  that the insurance premium didnt reduce when parts  became unavailable. S 
paid £200 towards  the cost of a new boiler (as part of the terms and conditions of the policy).
Mr and Mrs H complained  to S. On behalf of Aviva, it said that it didnt cancel insurance 
policies when a few parts of a boiler  became obsolete as other parts could still be available, 
allowing the boiler to be repaired.  S pointed out that at times it was still possible to source 
parts, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to cancel policies  if one part became unavailable 
if the boiler was still working and only needed repair  using available  parts.  S noted  that the 
terms and conditions of the policy set out the procedure when parts were unavailable, as 
was the premium, and these were accepted by Mr and Mrs H when they took out the policy.  
S also said that when  it cancelled  the policy, no refund of premiums  were due as two claims 
had been made within  the past year. It also refused to pay for a new boiler.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us, and said that S shouldve told them  earlier parts  were  
obsolete and it shouldnt  rely on the small print.  They also said that if theyd known, they 
couldve planned when  to replace the boiler  to take account of their health issues  and the 
needs of a relative for whom  they cared at various  times. 
The investigators view was that the policy wasnt mis-sold as it was sold without advice 
being given and the terms about obsolete parts werent so unusual  that they needed to be 
highlighted to customers. But he said that the core of this complaint was about the ongoing  
suitability of the policy as the boiler  aged.  The investigator thought that a consumer could 
reasonably expect a diminishing return as the boiler  aged and the terms and conditions  set 
out what would happen if a part became obsolete. He also noted  that the policy still gave 
Mr and Mrs H a benefit as the boiler  couldve needed a repair  for which a part was still 
available, and said insurers  dont need  to tell consumers when parts arent  available  until 
theyre needed for repairs.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They said the insurance policy  wasnt  clear and transparent and 
felt they shouldve been reminded that theyd only get £200 if the boiler  needed replacement.  
Mr and Mrs H also said that as the value of the benefit of the policy reduced, so should the 
premium and insurers should tell consumers when  parts became unavailable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN90696782In essence, Mr and Mrs H are unhappy as they feel that the benefit they received from the 
policy reduced over time as the boiler aged  and parts became obsolete, but the premiums 
didnt reduce and they werent  told that parts were becoming obsolete.  The policy  (and the 
boiler) has been in place since 2005,  and it wasnt  until 2018  that the boiler needed a part 
which wasnt available.
Insurance premiums  arent calculated on the basis on an individual  analysis of a particular 
boiler. Insurers partly calculate premiums  on the likelihood of a percentage of the boilers  it 
covers needing  repair.  They  also set out in terms and conditions in what  circumstances a 
boiler is covered  and what will be done in particular circumstances. Consumers accept both 
the premium quoted  and the terms and conditions when  they take out an insurance policy.  If 
the consumer  doesnt like the premium  or the terms or conditions,  its open to them not to 
take out the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the premium and the terms and conditions  when they took out the 
policy. Theyve supplied  evidence that they received all the relevant information about these 
points. And I can see the terms  about  obsolete parts have  been  in place for several years.  I 
cant say that Aviva  or S has acted  unfairly  or unreasonably as the information was supplied  
and Mr and Mrs H chose to go ahead.
The terms and conditions  on the point about obsolete  parts  are clearly set out in my view.  
They say that if the boiler  is more than seven  years old (and Mr and Mrs Hs boiler is older  
than this),  and a part needed to repair the boiler isnt available,  the insurance policy  will be 
cancelled and £200 paid towards the costs of a new boiler. This is what S did on Avivas 
behalf. It didnt  refund any premiums as S said Mr and Mrs H had benefitted from the policy  
as they had made call outs (and Mr and Mrs H havent disputed call outs were made). I cant 
say that it is unfair or unreasonable to apply  the terms  and conditions  in place.
Mr and Mrs H say that Aviva or S shouldve told them  that parts were unavailable when they 
became unavailable. This isnt practical   insurers dont control when parts  are made  or 
shipped to this country,  and dont monitor every boiler insured. They only are made  aware 
when a particular  boiler needs a particular part thats  unavailable. And as S has pointed  out, 
if a boiler needs  repair  and can be fixed,  it isnt fair or reasonable to refuse  to do so because 
another part not required isnt available. The terms and conditions set out the policy in 
respect of obsolete parts and it has been  fairly  and reasonably  applied  in this case.
Mr and Mrs H have also said that the policy was mis-sold. I note that its been renewed  
every year and the terms and conditions have formed part of the renewal  notice. And I agree 
that theres no evidence  that any formal advice about the policy  has been given and the 
terms and conditions are consistent with standard  industry practice. Mr and Mrs H were  
given sufficient information to decide  whether  or not to take out the policy in my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069678