K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a car he got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with 1st Stop Car 
Finance Ltd (1st Stop) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like the car to be repaired,  or to reject 
it.
background
Mr A says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with 1st Stop in September  2018. He says 
within days he noticed a knocking noise which increased either on long drives,  or in warmer 
weather.
He says he has taken  the car back to be looked at approximately five times  but the problem 
hasnt been resolved.
1st Stop says an independent report was carried  out but found no evidence of a problem 
present, or developing at the point  of sale, for which  it was liable.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found  that:-
-Mr A took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a used car that I believed was 
approximately three years old. 
-With a used car Mr A might expect some repair work  and wear  and tear issues to 
deal with more  so than if the car had been a new one. However  I noted  that the car 
was only approximately  three  years old with a relatively low level of mileage when 
Mr A got it.
-We expect cars to be fit for purpose  at the point of sale. And usually take the view 
that problems  within the first six months  are the responsibility of the finance provider 
to resolve. We also usually feel its fair to allow one attempt to repair.
-Mr A had a problem with a knocking noise with the car so the car was looked at on 
27 September 2018 just two days after Mr A got it. The job information I saw stated 
that a noise was checked  and £52 worth  of work  carried out. It wasnt clear to me if 
this was the cost of inspecting the car or for actual repairs.
-This issue  persisted.  In October 2018 an engine tie bar was replaced, in 
November 2018 the knocking noise was checked  again with no fault found, later in 
the same  month the tie bar was identified as being incorrectly fitted.
-1st t Stop arranged an independent inspection of the car in January 2019  which  is 
what I would have  expected it to do. I considered very carefully the findings  of that 
report as I usually  place  a lot of weight  on such reports. They are independent of 
both the business and the consumer, carried out by a qualified  inspector and very 
detailed.
-Unfortunately the inspector couldnt  replicate  the fault Mr A had with the car. 
Although from a video  Mr A supplied he did evidence  the knocking  noise.  The report  
Ref: DRN95805262concluded that a possible cause might  be early stage of dual mass flywheel wear  or 
a clutch issue.
-The report concluded that the car was fit for purpose. And the noise evidenced by the 
video was most likely  to been down to an unidentified general wear  and tear issue.
-Whilst we usually  expect a business to take responsibility for issues  that arise within  
six months this would be for issues present  or developing at the point of sale not for 
general wear and tear issues. 
-Our adjudicator checked the MOT history  for the car and found an MOT was 
completed on 4 September 2018 just a couple of weeks before Mr A got the car. The 
car passed the MOT  with no advisories so no issues were picked up then.
-The steering  rack was replaced  in June  2019 which  resolved  the issue. I appreciated 
it had taken some time to get to this point.
-Mr A told us he thought there was now a problem with the clutch  and air conditioning.  
As these issues arose more than six months after he had the car I explained he 
would need to provide some evidence that these were problems present or 
developing at the point of sale for 1st Stop to be liable to resolve these.
-Mr A said he asked  to reject the car after the first failed repair.  He did have the right 
to reject the car within  the first thirty  days of the agreement so as the car first seems  
to have had work carried on within days of getting it he could  have done  this. But I 
found no evidence  that he asked to do this.
-Mr A said he continued to ask to reject the car and didnt agree to the last repair 
carried out  the replacement  of the steering rack.  Mr A says he signed the card 
prior to any work being done. I found no evidence in 1st Stops customer notes of 
Mr A  continuing to ask to reject  the car
-1st Stop gave  us the job card to replace the steering  rack Mr A signed.  It felt this 
showed Mr A agreed to the work being done as he signed the card prior to work 
being carried out. If Mr A wanted  to reject the car at that stage I didnt understand 
why he signed  the job card. I agreed with 1st Stops view that in signing the card Mr A 
agreed to the steering rack being replaced.
-Based  on- an MOT with no issues prior to Mr A getting  the car, and independent 
report which concluded  wear  and tear was most likely the cause of the problem and 
the fact the knocking  noise has now been  resolved  I didnt  feel it would be 
reasonable to allow  Mr A to reject the car at this stage.
-Mr A had been put to some inconvenience  in the time taken to resolve the problem 
and by the tie bar being incorrectly fitted.  I agreed with our adjudicators 
recommendation, which 1st Stop accepted, which was to pay Mr A £100 
compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN958052631st Stop hasnt  made any comments in response  to my provisional decision for me to 
consider.
Mr A has responded with some points which I have carefully considered.
He has said he reported the fault to the dealership three days after he got the car. He says 
the last time he took the car in he said he wished to reject it. And had done so at least five 
times.
I appreciate the problem  arose within the first few days of Mr A having the car. I was aware  
of that and noted that in my provisional  decision.
I have seen no evidence  that Mr A asked, or continued to ask to reject the car. He would 
have had a right to do so within  the first 30 days of having the car. Had he done  so at this 
stage I would have  expected Mr A or 1st Stop to have some record  of this but I havent seen 
anything to show this was the case.
However 1st Stop has shown, and Mr A accepts, that he signed the job card for the steering 
rack to be replaced. I dont know why Mr A did that if, as he says, at that point and prior to 
that he wanted to reject  the car. I am still of the view that in signing that job card Mr A 
accepted the repair  work  being  done  to his car. And as that resolved the issue I dont feel its 
fair to now allow  him to reject the car.
Mr A said the independent  inspector  looked at the car on the coldest day of the year but as 
the problem Mr A experienced manifested itself on hot days  with long trips he didnt find it 
surprising he didnt  experience the problem Mr A had. He noted that the report  said the 
problem was possibly  with the flywheel  and clutch which was wrong  as it turned out the 
steering rack was the issue.
Ive noted Mr As comments about the independent  inspection. And I agree with the point 
Mr A made that the issue was the steering rack not the clutch or mass flywheel. Also that the 
inspector couldnt  replicate the fault. And as Mr A says as the problem manifested itself on 
hot days that if the inspection was carried out on a cold day that may well explain why the 
inspector didnt evidence the fault. The inspector did however have the benefit of the video 
which showed the problem. Although I dont imagine video evidence is as effective at 
diagnosing a problem  as actually experiencing the problem
But whilst I accept the report was perhaps  of less value than I placed on it in my provisional 
decision the main  issue  for me is that the problem was resolved by replacing the steering 
rack and I believe Mr A, in signing the job card, accepted that repair.
Mr A also said further problems arose after the steering rack was replaced which he felt was 
due to the repair carried out. For me to consider that Mr A would have needed to give me 
some evidence to support  that. But I dont believe he has done  so.
Finally Mr A didnt feel that £100  compensation was sufficient for the problems he had.
I appreciate Mr A doesnt feel that the £100 compensation that our adjudicator originally  
suggested and that 1st Stop agreed to pay isnt sufficient for the problems he has had. I did 
Ref: DRN95805264feel it was fair to make some award for the inconvenience. And I am still of the view that 
£100 is reasonable in the circumstances.  I leave it to Mr A as to whether he accepts  the 
£100 from 1st Stop or not.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  1st Stop Car Finance Ltd should pay Mr A £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9580526