K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that U K Insurance Limited,  trading as Direct Line, suspended her car 
insurance policy by mistake and without  telling her. As a result, she and her partner  were  
driving uninsured  for nearly a year.
background 
Miss T had a minor accident  in early 2018.  Direct Line wrongly recorded her car as having 
been written off and suspended her insurance  policy. Miss T says she didnt  know  about this, 
and it only came to light following another claim in November 2018.  
As a result, Miss T and her partner were  driving without insurance for almost  a year,  despite  
paying the monthly premiums for cover.  Miss T complained.  
Direct Line said it had made a mistake, but it wouldnt have treated Miss Ts policy as 
suspended had she needed  to make a claim: it would have covered her. It said it had 
nevertheless refunded  £696.64, representing the premiums Miss T had paid for the period 
the policy was suspended. It also reinstated  the policy, and later offered £200  by way of 
compensation.
Miss T asked us to look into the matter, and pointed out that she could have  been  stopped  
by the police at any time for driving without insurance.
Our investigator thought Direct Line had made a fair offer to put things right,  so she didnt 
recommend it do or pay any more.  
Miss T didnt accept that. She felt Direct  Lines offer didnt reflect  the seriousness of what  
had happened  and the upset it had caused. She also said its mistake had caused a delay in 
her recent claim being sorted out, and she hadnt  received  the full refund of premiums she 
was expecting.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Direct Line has accepted  it got things wrong,  and I can understand why Miss T and her 
family were upset on finding that the policy had been suspended. Ive noted Miss Ts 
concerns about  the possibility of having  been stopped by the police but, fortunately,  that 
didnt happen.  I think its also important to point out that this service isnt the regulator  so 
its not for me to fine or punish Direct Line for its shortcomings.
Taking the matter  as a whole, I consider Direct Lines  offer of compensation   which  
amounts to almost £900  is very fair. I must  bear in mind that Direct Line has said it would 
have honoured  a claim during the period the policy was suspended, but it has nevertheless 
also refunded the cost of cover for that time to Miss T. I see no reason why it might  not have 
considered a claim, as it did following the accident in November.
Direct Lines records show it began considering Miss Ts November claim within  a few days 
of the claim being  made. So I dont consider the mistaken suspension of the policy  caused  a 
Ref: DRN93957112significant delay,  although I recognise that Miss T was put to some unnecessary worry and 
upset.
Miss T has queried  the premium refund she received, and our investigator  has given her 
details of how this amount  was calculated. It didnt include a refund of the costs  of 
breakdown cover and other extras. I find I cant fairly  require Direct Line to make any further 
refunds given that it has acted as I would expect  in treating Miss Ts policy as though it 
hadnt been suspended  when she made  her recent  claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require U K Insurance  Limited,  trading as Direct Line, to pay 
more than it has offered  to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9395711