K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the management of his portfolio by Standard Life Wealth Limited 
(SLW) in relation to his Individual Savings Account (ISA) investment and offshore bond 
investment.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this decision. I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any 
further information they wanted me to consider. SLW said it had nothing  further  to add but 
Mr M didnt  agree with my provisional decision. In short he made  the following points:
He felt that the provisional decision did not take into account what should be 
expected of Standard  Life Private Client Management (SLPCM) as he had originally 
complained about  both firms and it us that had separated it into multiple complaints.
SLW  has claimed that it did not provide advice and I have said I have seen  no 
persuasive evidence  that it did offer advice about  buying a particular investment. But 
he would  point  out that SLW offered detailed email advice about the relative  merits of 
the medium risk and medium/high risk portfolios  which are in emails from 2013 
provided to us so he is surprised by my comment.
He is entitled  to full disclosure  from SLW  including the computer  modelling  which  he 
considers a highly  relevant document in what had gone wrong and fair treatment of 
the customer surely requires they have all the relevant information before deciding  to 
invest.
The recommendation of the Newton Funds in October 2013  clearly showed that he 
was good for higher risks. And the only reason  this didnt go ahead was because  US 
Dollar investments couldnt  be accommodated by SLW/Newton.
The agreement of putting the new  money in the same  pot in 2015 was made over a 
short telephone  call and at that point  he was not aware of the rule requiring  a fresh  
risk assessment. He became aware of this rule in 2017. Surely the purpose of a fresh 
risk assessment is to look at all the alternatives and not carrying this out meant he 
was deprived of a detailed  reappraisal  where he was investing a total of around 
£900,000. He would say that risk assessment includes whether  higher risk funds are 
the better choice.
Over  the course 2016  the Target returns strategy was consistent in losing money 
but I have said that didnt  mean 5% return wasnt achievable such  that the DPM 
needed to change strategy. But the choice of strategy should be the customers  
choice based  full information about what funds were successful and which  were 
failures.
Losing 2-3% is poor performance  in the abstract  but surely  disastrous if other  funds 
are gaining  value  by as much  as 10%.
The customer is presented with a choice each year as a result  of annual  review and 
should have  proper  advice about the investment vehicle they are invested in and the 
alternatives. It is the annual  review which causes him to question the approach I 
have taken to the duty owed by SLW.
Ref: DRN97468572He would also like consideration of the duty to advice by SLPCM in September  2016 
which is the other half of the complaint. However  limited the duty of SLW it is 
genuinely unfair treatment for SLPCM to have failed to advise him about  the range  of 
results in the investment  fleet in 2016. He excused the 2-3% losses  because  he was 
never told how bad they were  in comparative  terms.
SLW and SLPCM were economical with the truth to avoid him and others 
abandoning Target returns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made it clear, as he did previously, that he thinks  his complaint should be 
considered as against both SLW  and SLPCM. I acknowledge  the adviser for SLPCM  and the 
DPM for SLW worked closely together. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, their 
roles and responsibilities  are different  and it is appropriate to consider these separately.  
Nothing Mr M has said persuades me otherwise.
Mr M has referred to emails the DPM sent to him in 2013 when it says it advised him about  
the relative merits of the medium risk and the medium/high risk portfolios. But this isnt 
advising on investments as a portfolio isnt a particular investment as I pointed out in my 
provisional decision. And what  the DPM had to do was make sure that the portfolio was 
suitable based on the risk Mr M was prepared to take and the mandate he had agreed  to 
which I think he did.
I have already said Im not persuaded that SLW  were under any obligation to disclose the 
internal computer modelling to Mr M and Im not minded to change my view on this.
Mr M has referred to his willingness to invest in Newton  Funds  in October  2013  and that this 
showed that he was good for higher risks.  But this isnt in dispute. I made clear that his risk 
appetite was higher than the medium risk portfolio he was put in to in 2013, but he agreed  to 
a portfolio with a lower risk on the basis this could still achieve  his objective.
I note Mr M has said the decision in 2015 to put more money into the same  pot was based  
on a short telephone discussion and he wasnt aware that the DPM shouldve carried out a 
new risk assessment. But the fact he agreed to invest new money in the same way as a 
result of a telephone  call doesnt provide any evidence  that he wouldve invested differently if 
there had been  a meeting  or more detailed discussion  and a fresh  risk assessment had been 
carried out. 
He knew his existing  portfolio was a lower risk than he was willing  to take and had agreed  to 
this. The purpose  of the risk assessment isnt to consider all possible alternative portfolios as 
he has suggested but to see whether the current portfolio was appropriate for his risk 
appetite. Im not persuaded that a further risk assessment, that is likely to have shown what  
was known already   namely that he was prepared to take a greater risk  wouldve led to 
the further money he was investing  being  invested in a different portfolio.
I note what Mr M has said about no alternative arrangements  being  suggested.  But the role 
of the DPM was to ensure that the decisions he made about the portfolio were suitable and 
in line with the agreed mandate  and Im not persuaded that he didnt do this. The fact that Mr 
Ref: DRN97468573Ms portfolio  couldve been invested  differently isnt evidence that that the decisions the DPM 
made were unsuitable and not in line with the mandate that had been agreed.
Mr M has said that the choice of strategy should be the customers.  But this was a 
discretionary managed  portfolio  so it was for the DPM to make decisions with regard to his 
portfolio that were  in line with risk he was prepared to take and the agreed mandate. As long 
as the DPM did this then he has done nothing wrong.
I also dont think the fact other funds made  good  gains whilst  his portfolio dropped in value 
means the DPM needed to change his portfolio. Different portfolios will provide different 
outcomes depending on the make-up of the investments within  them and what  is happening 
in the market at any particular  time. The fact his portfolio went  down in value  doesnt  mean  
the DPM had to immediately move  his money  into a different portfolio.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97468574COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complaint is about the suitability  of the management of his portfolio  by Standard Life Wealth 
Limited (SLW) in relation to his Individual Savings Account (ISA) investment and offshore bond 
investment.
background
Mr M has separate complaints about the management of his Self- Invested  Personal Pension portfolio  
(SIPP) and a later investment through a Discounted  Gift Trust (DGT). This complaint only deals with 
his ISA portfolio  and the offshore bond portfolio he put around
£136,000 into.
He initially saw SLW in the middle of 2013 as he wanted it to take over management of his 
investments on a discretionary managed basis. At the time SLW only offered portfolios  with Target 
Return strategies and this is the basis on which his portfolios were managed.
Soon after it started providing  discretionary management of Mr Ms bond and ISA SLW took over the 
private client part of Newton Management. This broadened what  it was able to offer clients  by way of 
portfolios.
In 2017, disappointed with the returns achieved by his investments, Mr M complained to
SLW and compared the performance of the Target Return  strategy  funds with other funds.
SLW didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It accepted that Mr M had capacity to take a greater
risk than his Target Return portfolios provided. But it said his objective  of getting a 5% return  from his 
investments could be met with a lower  risk using  a portfolio  with a Target Return  strategy  which  was 
targeting LIBOR +3% and +3.5% - the difference being related to the different charges for the ISA and 
Bond. So this led to a lower risk profile being used which  it said was discussed  with, and agreed to by, 
Mr M.
It explained the investment  approach of Mr Ms Target Return portfolio and compared its performance 
with other Target Return funds. It also explained  it had changed the name of the Target Return  funds 
to re-align them with the range of funds it had recently acquired and also with market peers.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into this complaint  and recommended it wasnt upheld. He said:
He was satisfied  Mr M entered into the agreement with SLW  under a medium risk mandate 
having reconsidered the outcome of the risk profiling assessment.
It was reasonable in August 2013  to invest Mr Ms ISA and offshore bond  in the medium risk 
Target Return portfolio  as it had historically provided returns in excess  of the 5% Mr M was 
looking for.
He didnt  think the SLW  profile report marked as for internal use only Mr M had provided to 
us proved that the Target Return  portfolio was unsuitable. He said the results set out in the 
profile were determined  by the variable factors input into the system to produce the 
calculation. However, the historical  performance of the portfolio clearly showed  the returns Mr 
M was seeking  were possible.
It was important to note that in 2013, whilst LIBOR was estimated to be 1% over the next 
three years, Mr Ms investment horizon was noted as ongoing and the investments  were 
deemed to be over at least ten years. It was reasonable that SLW had an expectation that the 
underlying funds the portfolio invested  in could provide the returns  required and that LIBOR 
would likely increase over that period.
The file notes, from early  2015,  showed that Mr Ms circumstances had not materially 
changed and that the new money was required to be invested in the same risk and portfolio  
strategy as already in place.
Ref: DRN97468575He was satisfied  that SLW gained  Mr Ms informed  consent to manage the new investments 
under the same mandate of the Target Return strategies already in place.
The annual  review  reports  clearly showed the investment performance of Mr Ms ISA and 
offshore bond. He did not consider SLW  had an obligation to make performance  comparisons 
with other investment  funds  it offered during those reviews unless, because of poor 
performance, Mr M had requested an alternative portfolio.
The complaint was about investment performance, which on its own would not normally be a 
sufficient reason for this service to consider upholding  a complaint.
He considered the Target Return portfolios were suitable for a medium  risk investor  and it 
was important to note they did not guarantee a specific level of growth  but aimed to provide a 
particular return with the potential to achieve  a higher  return.
Mr M did not agree  and made several comments which I summarise below:
He understood  why the complaints he had made had been separated out but thinks  that 
excluding consideration of the role of Standard Life Private  Client Management  (SLPCM)  
the advising business  is wrong.
The adviser  and the portfolio manager worked closely together,  usually  saw him jointly, and 
kept each other informed  about what each was doing. And if SLW  didnt have a duty to advise 
him then it was fair to expect the adviser  to update and advise him, as he expected.
The adjudicator didnt address whether Target  returns  were  suitable  for someone with his 
history to whom the adviser was recommending 100%  equity funds  up until
2013.
The fact he agreed to Target returns on the basis that 5% was achievable doesnt mean  they 
were suitable  in the first place. If he had been advised that funds, comparable  to his old 
personal choices,  would be available within a couple of months then he wouldve  chosen that 
type of investment.
He is responsible for the choice of a fund that was below his medium/high risk profile, but this 
was based on advice from the manager in emails that detailed  good returns but said nothing  
about the bad news shown  by the computer modelling. He relied  on the positive figures  he 
was given  which steered  him into investing.
The adjudicator doesnt  comment  on him being advised by the manager or the failure to 
mention the computer modelling   which showed that over 20 years a 5% return  was 
impossible and that the best that could be achieved was 4.5%.
Both the manager and the adviser  were aware  that 5% was his bottom line. If he had been 
given the computer  modelling he would have invested differently in something that couldve 
predicted a 5% return  this wouldve  seen him invest in the Newton  funds.
As he was advised  to invest in these  funds in October 2013 he cant see why he wasnt 
advised to wait until they were available. This indicates the adviser  and manager just wanted 
to sell the only product  they had available  in July/August 2013.
Informed consent means a customer should be made aware of material risks  see the case 
of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health  Board.
The 2015  investment was made on the basis of a short  call from the adviser  where he agreed 
to the default investment. There  was no later call to review alternative investments.
The adjudicator noted the change in his circumstances resulting from him ceasing  
withdrawals from the pension and replacing these with withdrawals  from the DGT. But the real 
change was that there was another £900,000 to invest.
The 2016  review comments on his capacity for loss at 10-25% and that arguably it could be 
higher than this  this suggests he was always  in the wrong low/lower risk investment.
As he now had an additional £900,000 invested with the same withdrawal amount of £20,000 
surely that meant  a different approach to investment was needed.
SLW breached its own rules  about  carrying out fresh risk assessments, which were 
presumably to consider  whether alternative strategies were  needed.
There wasnt informed consent in 2015 as there was no discussion  of alternative investments 
so he wasnt given all the information  he needed.
Ref: DRN97468576The adjudicator hasnt given reasons for his view that SLW  had no obligation to give 
performance comparisons  with other investments funds  it offered.  He thought  it had to at least 
provide a market  commentary and performance comparisons benchmarked against his 
agreed financial  goals as referred to in its letter of 15
October 2013. He cant see it was for him to ask if it had any, more  suitable  investments. He 
expected it to tell him if he could be in something better at a time Target funds  were 
consistently losing money.
It was the manager who told him about the Bridge Fund in 2017 and prepared  the 
comparative chart  showing results for 2016  which couldve been available as of the meeting 
in September 2016.  He was asked to sign a mandate going forwards in 2016 which he 
thought was based  on him having been given full information  when the opposite was true.
His complaint isnt about investment performance  but about  the lack of comparative  
information about  investment performance which  is a breach of the FCAs rules. The lack of 
this information left investors blinded  as to how badly Target returns were doing.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M has suggested that we look at what the adviser, on behalf of SLCM, and the 
Discretionary Portfolio Manager (DPM)  on behalf of SLW,  did collectively within one complaint given 
the close  working  relationship between the adviser  and DPM and the joint meeting they attended with 
him. But the role of the adviser and DPM, and their obligations to customers, are different and I think it 
is appropriate for me to limit my findings  to matters that relate to SLW only and whether  the manager 
did, or didnt,  do anything wrong.
I note that Mr M has suggested that he was advised by both the DPM  and adviser. But advice,  as 
defined in the rules, means advice about the merits of buying  or selling  a particular investment. I have 
seen no evidence that the DPM did this. The investment proposal SLW produced stated repeatedly 
throughout that the contents didnt  amount to
investment advice. I acknowledge that doesnt necessarily mean  it isnt possible such advice was 
given, but I have seen no persuasive evidence  this is what happened.
From what I have seen SLW  were providing  a discretionary portfolio management  service. So what 
the DPM had to do was make sure he had the necessary  information  about  Mr Ms experience, 
financial situation and objectives to make sure that the decisions  he made about Mr Ms portfolio were 
suitable and in accordance  with the agreed mandate.
What happened in 2013?
Mr M saw the DPM  about  investing a large part of his available capital  through SLW. The investment 
proposal set out Mr Ms investment goals as the generation of an additional income of £20,000 from 
various investments, whilst keeping tax below the higher rate tax threshold.  Mr M hasnt suggested 
this isnt what  he wanted  from his portfolio
There doesnt  appear to be any disagreement that Mr M was a medium/high risk investor or that the 
Target Return portfolio  that the DPM chose for his investment was a lower  risk than this. But Mr M 
was aware his portfolio  was being invested with a lower risk than he was prepared  to take and he 
accepted this on the basis it was still targeting a return  of 5% which  is what he wanted.
The investment proposal dated 27 August 2013 identifies goal 2 as to provide a sustainable return of 
5% on an ongoing basis to meet income withdrawals whilst maintaining a medium level of risk. Risk is 
identified as medium.  The report goes  on to state.
the analysis of your SLW risk profiling  questionnaire suggest you are willing to accept a higher than 
average level of risk.. (the adviser) has assessed your target return requirement  to be 5% and 
Ref: DRN97468577therefore a Standard life Wealth Medium Risk Investment strategy, targeting cash + 3% would be 
within your risk parameters and target the desired return after fees on a rolling 3 year basis.
And:
Our cash benchmark is 6 month LIBOR and estimated  to be 1% over the next 3 years. The current  
average annual return target is therefore  4%, after fees but while cash rates remain  so low we believe 
5% is an achievable total return after fees.
And I note the performance in the previous two years provided returns of 5.9% and 5.6%
before dropping.
I have also seen  a file note dated 29 August 2013 which  states:
Because he only requires  a return  as targeted by the medium return  model he is adopting this 
investment approach. He reviewed the historic returns of the SLW higher risk strategies and noted 
they had produced less returns than the medium  risk in certain  periods and therefore  agreed to invest  
all portfolios as medium risk.
I note what Mr M has said about  the Target return portfolios being the only ones available through  
SLW at the time. And that it was able to provide  a greater range of portfolio  options,  including more 
conventional portfolios with investments in equities, once it took over the Newton business  later in the 
year.
He has questioned  why the DPM didnt just delay his investment until these alternatives were 
available at which point  he wouldve been  able to put his money in a more suitable portfolio. But, as I 
have said, what the DPM had to do was ensure that the portfolio was suitable for Mr M and in 
accordance with his objective.
And the fact that SLW  was going to have more options  available later on in the year doesnt mean  the 
recommended portfolio  was unsuitable or not in accordance with the agreed mandate  at the time it 
was recommended.  And he made no attempt  to change his portfolio  after he became aware  that SLW  
had taken over the Newton business  and different investment options were available.
Mr M has also questioned whether a Target  return portfolio was ever suitable for someone with his 
history who was recommended, higher risk, Newton funds by the adviser  once these  became 
available in October  2013.  But the fact he had previously invested in higher risk investments doesnt,  
of itself, make the recommended portfolio unsuitable.  Nor does the fact he was advised to invest in 
Newton funds  with other capital he had - it isnt in dispute  he couldve taken  a higher risk with his 
portfolio, and he was already  aware  of this and had chosen to invest with less risk.
Mr M doesnt dispute  he agreed to a portfolio with a lower  risk but says that he was steered towards 
this by the DPM and that he shouldve been  given the profile report  which projected that the portfolio 
wouldnt achieve the 5% return he wanted. He says if he had been given the report he wouldve  asked 
for a portfolio that could at least have  predicted a 5% return which was his bottom  line.
The profile  report  Mr M has referred to, prepared  for internal use only,  showed  a time horizon of 10 
years plus and a capacity  for loss of 10-25%. This showed that with a start value of £1 million the 
expected end value, based on the required 5% return, would mean  a loss. The expected model return  
was recorded as 4.5%. And under Possibility  of goal achievement it states:
Not possible with a possible  shortfall of £75,925.
I understand why Mr M feels  he shouldve  seen the report. But Im not persuaded  SLW  did anything 
wrong in not providing  this to him. It was an internal report that wasnt intended for customers  and 
was based on certain assumptions, including  constant  annual  returns.
Ref: DRN97468578As a manager  of Mr Ms investments SLW had to have  a reasonable basis for thinking  that the 
recommended portfolio  was in accordance  with the agreed mandate. I understand why Mr M thinks 
this report  indicates the recommended medium risk Target return  portfolio  was wrong for him.
But the portfolio had produced annual  returns in the previous two years before he saw the DPM which 
were above  the 5% Mr M was looking for. So I think there was a basis for the DPM to think that over 
the medium  to long term it was capable  of producing  the return  that Mr M required regardless of what  
the profile report stated.
In the circumstances I dont think the profile  report is evidence that there wasnt a real possibility  of a 
return of 5% as Mr M suggests. And I dont  think  failing to disclose the report  amounted  to misleading  
him by omission  about  the likely performance of the portfolio.
I also dont think it means there was no informed  consent to the portfolio  as he has suggested. He 
was an experienced investor and was aware there wasnt a guarantee of a
5% return and a risk he could get less. He was also aware that there were other  higher risk Target 
return portfolios available, so knew there were alternatives. From  the information I have  seen these  
hadnt done as well as the medium risk portfolio which is why he agreed to that lower risk portfolio.
In all the circumstances Im not persuaded that SLW was wrong to recommend a portfolio that used a 
Target Return strategy with a medium risk which  was reasonably viewed as capable of making  the 
return he wanted even  though this was at a lower  risk than he was prepared to take.
What happened in 2015?
Mr M invested further amounts within  his ISA and offshore bond in 2015.
A file note dated 11 February 2015 records the outcome  of a discussion  Mr M had with his DPM 
around three weeks earlier in January and a separate discussion Mr M had with the adviser  on 6 
February 2015. The note records that under advice from the adviser  Mr M will invest  £15,000 into an 
ISA, a further £385,000 into the offshore  bond and £600,000 in a new DGT. It also records that Mr M:
has confirmed he wanted to have  the same  risk and portfolio  strategy for the additional  investments 
to existing portfolios (ISA and IPB) and the new DGT.
Under the heading Mandate  Mr Ms objectives are set out as the same as in 2013  namely to grow 
the ISA targeting LIBOR plus 3% and for the bond  to provide a sustainable return of
5% to meet income withdrawals and targeting LIBOR plus 3.5%.  The level of risk is stated to be 
medium low for both.
The change to the risk of the portfolio from medium  to medium  low had happened the previous year.  
SLW has explained  this was because of the addition  of the Newton funds at the end of 2013 which 
meant it had a wider  category of risk profiles for its portfolios. Mr M was made  aware of this change at 
the time and agreed to continue  with the same portfolio.
In an email of 17 February 2015  SLW refers to receipt of £383,000 into the offshore bond portfolio. 
The investment objective  is identified as:
To provide a sustainable return of 5% on an ongoing  basis, to meet  income withdrawals, whilst 
maintain a medium  low level of risk targeting 6 month Sterling +3.5%.
Im satisfied that Mr M agreed to this new investment  being managed  by SLW in the same way as the 
initial investment in 2013  and with the level of risk that applied.  I note he has referred  to SLW  having 
breached its own rules  about carrying out a fresh risk assessment but given the portfolio was already  
a lower risk than he was willing to take and the evidence  indicates he wanted to keep with the same 
strategy and portfolio with the additional money he was investing Im not persuaded  that a further risk 
Ref: DRN97468579assessment wouldve provided any information which  wouldve  led to anything different happening in 
2015.
What happened in 2016?
In 2016 there  was a further meeting and the results of that are set out in a letter  dated  14
October 2016. In that letter the objective for the ISA and Offshore Bond is identified as growth  with a 
medium low level of risks being confirmed  for both. The letter states:
Through the risks questionnaire and our discussions we understand  that you could tolerate a loss of 
10-25% before it would materially  impact  you. This level of potential  loss is not agreeable and 
therefore a lower  risk investment approach has been  agreed.
Mr M has said the reference  to him having a capacity for loss of 10-25% and arguably higher 
elsewhere in the report showed he was always  in the wrong portfolio. But the quote above suggests  
that although he could  manage such a loss, this isnt something he wanted. And he was always aware 
that the portfolio was at a lower risk than he was prepared to take anyway, but agreed to this on the 
basis it could still achieve his objective.
Mr M complains that SLW didnt compare the performance of the investments within his portfolio in 
2016 with other funds  and by not doing so it deliberately hid the poor performance of his portfolio.
But Im not persuaded that SLW was obliged to compare the performance of the funds in his portfolio  
with other funds. It did provide a comparison  between the portfolio  performance and the benchmark. It 
also provided  information about what was happening  in equities markets which showed  that it hadnt 
performed as well in 2016.  Im not persuaded it had to provide  any further information to Mr M.
I think  it is also worth  noting that the performance of the portfolio as shown  in the 2016 doesnt 
suggest that 5% wasnt achievable. In 2016 the return was negative  but it must be remembered this 
was a long term investment  and Im not persuaded that what happened to the portfolio  in 2016 meant 
the DPM needed  to change the strategy at that time.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr M either to accept  or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9746857