K821x#15complaint
Ms W has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) service and actions in 
connection with her breakdown policy.
Ms Ws breakdown policy is branded in the name of a well-known recovery  service. But as 
the policy is underwritten  by UKI it remains  responsible for complaints about actions covered 
by the policy.  So Ill refer to UKI rather than the recovery service throughout this decision.
background
Ms W has breakdown cover as a benefit of her bank account.  In April 2018 UKIs  breakdown  
agents saw Ms W because her car wouldnt start. They said she needed a new battery which 
the agent sold to her. In September 2018  Ms W called UKI again because  her car wouldnt 
start. The same breakdown agents attended. Ms W asked them to replace the battery. But 
the agents said that it wasn't covered under warranty because Ms Ws car hadnt done 
enough miles to keep the warranty  valid.
Ms W complained. UKI provided Ms W with a hire car while it investigated  her complaint. But 
it said its agents had sold Ms W an appropriate battery. And that the problem with her car 
could be related to an issue with its alternator,  which is the part of the cars  engine that 
charges the battery while driving. But UKI eventually said that if Ms W bought  a new battery 
its agents would collect the previous one, refund her for that, and install  her new battery. 
That didnt happen and Ms W had the battery fitted  herself.
Ms W brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2020.  For 
ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.   
In bringing her complaint Ms W has made a number of detailed  points. And I've considered  
everything shes said. Ive also listened  to a number of call recordings, including  those with 
our adjudicator when  she described her complaint in detail. But I dont intend to refer to all 
the issues shes raised in this decision.  Instead Ill focus on what  I see as being  the key 
outstanding issues  after our adjudicator issued her view on Ms Ws complaint.
Ms Ws complaint centres on her belief that the breakdown agents fitted an ineffective 
battery to her car in April 2018  and UKIs  responses  to her complaints about  that. I 
understand that when the breakdown agents went to see Ms W in September  2018 they 
tested the battery. And their record is that the battery was working  appropriately. Ms Ws 
account is different.  She said that the breakdown agent initially  told her that the battery  was 
faulty but then changed  his mind when he found  out it was his company that sold her the 
battery. And Ms W says that other  mechanics have told her that the battery was faulty. In 
contrast UKIs agent  said the only issue it could find was that the alternator was operating 
slightly below how it should do. 
Clearly I wasn't there when the breakdown agent looked  at Ms Ws battery. So I can't say 
with certainty which account of the September 2018  call-out is correct.  But I can see that UKI 
provided Ms W with a hire car until her own car was fixed and, to find a solution,  UKI told 
Ms W that if she bought  a replacement battery herself  its breakdown agents would come  out 
Ref: DRN92321452and fit that for her and refund her for the battery that she said wasn't  working. And I think  
that was reasonable in the circumstances.
But it seems  that there was some miscommunication about  exactly how that would happen. 
I've listened  to the call in which UKI suggested the option of Ms W buying a new battery and 
UKIs agent swapping  it for the old one its agents  had sold to her. And in the call UKI is clear 
that it would  ask the same agents  who sold the battery to take the old one away, refund 
Ms W and fit and test the new battery.  UKI asked Ms W if she was happy with that 
arrangement and she said she was. During that conversation  Ms W said that she didnt trust 
UKIs agent, and she mentioned several times  her unhappiness with the agents service,  but 
I think UKI was clear that it would ask the same agents to come out to Ms W. And Ms W 
agreed to that. 
Ms W bought a new battery  two days later which a local mechanic delivered  to her. Ms W 
didnt ask that mechanic to fit the battery for her as UKI had said it would arrange for its 
agents to do so. Ms Ws said that she rang UKI to sort that out. But it seems that when she 
contacted UKI she told it that she was no longer happy for its original agent  to install  the 
battery. And it said it would ring her back but didnt do so. Ms W rang UKI again the same 
day, 11 October 2018. I've listened to that call and it's clear  that she wanted UKI to send a 
different agent  out to take away  the old battery  and fit her new one. UKI arranged  that 
straightaway. 
In the same  call Ms W then said that it was getting late and she asked UKI if the breakdown 
agent could call the next day. But UKI said that he was already on his way and would 
contact Ms W shortly. Ms W told us that when she spoke to the agent,  he told her that he 
thought he was only supposed to be giving her a jump start and that he couldnt replace the 
battery. But the agents record of events  is different.  Ive seen that UKI provided  the agent  
with a clear instruction to replace the battery. And the agent said that when he rang Ms W 
she told him that she wasn't feeling  well, didn't want anyone  to call that evening and that 
shed call UKI when  she did want help. And given that UKI made a record of the call at the 
time, Im satisfied thats what actually happened. That is that Ms W told the agent  she didn't 
want him to come out that night and that she would call UKI again.
But theres no persuasive evidence that Ms W contacted UKI to rearrange that, and instead, 
a couple of days later, she paid her own mechanic to come out and fit the battery. And that 
meant that UKI didn't  collect the old one. Given that Ms W didn't contact UKI again to fit the 
battery and take the old one away I don't think it would be fair to make UKI cover the costs 
Ms W incurred in having the new battery fitted,  as UKI were  happy to arrange that 
themselves. But given that it gave Ms W an undertaking that it would refund her the cost of 
the battery  its agent sold to her, if Ms W still has that battery, then I think it would be fair for it 
to give Ms W the option of returning that battery  now and receiving the appropriate refund. 
And I think it should have  taken that action when  she contacted it to reopen her complaint. 
But as it didn't do so I think  that added to Ms W distress and inconvenience. To address that 
I think it should pay her compensation of £75.
developments
UKI disagreed with my provisional decision.  It said that it had offered to refund the cost of 
the battery. So it didn't  think it needed  to pay compensation. Ms W didn't provide any further  
comments.
Ref: DRN92321453my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to amend 
my provisional decision. 
UKI said that it had previously told us that it had offered to refund the cost of the battery on 
16 October 2018 but that Ms W didn't contact it to arrange that after that date. But I've noted 
that in its communication with us UKI had the dates wrong. In fact UKI initially  offered to 
collect and refund the battery on 9 October  2018,  not 16 October. And I've explained what 
happened after that above. I've listed to the call when Ms W contacted UKI again  on 
16 October 2018. And while  it acknowledged that it hadn't handled matters well I haven't 
heard it offer to collect the battery and refund it at that point. And as I said in my provisional 
decision I think that omission added to Ms Ws distress  and inconvenience,  so it should pay 
her £75 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance  Limited 
to liaise  with Ms W to collect her old battery and provide her with a refund for the costs  of 
that. It should also pay Ms W £75 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience.  
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Ms W has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9232145