K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained through a claims management  company  (CMC)  about advice she and 
her late husband  (Mr S) received from National Westminster  Bank  Plc (Nat West) to take 
out a Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB).
Her CMC says that:
Mrs S and her husband were  aged  69 and 81 respectively  and had retired  on modest
incomes. They couldnt afford to invest as much as 70 per cent of their total savings 
in a product that could give them a nil return;
those savings were the maturity  value of £14,000 they were due to receive  from a 
five-and-a-half year investment whose return was also based  on the performance of 
the FSTE 100 Share Index. Otherwise, it was an entirely different product;
although the adviser recorded that both of them were in good health, Mrs Ss 
husbands health was failing at the time. The GCB  didnt include life cover and it paid 
out on second death, or when it matured.  Mrs Ss financial position inevitably 
worsened when  Mrs Ss husband  died in late 2009 and she was unable to access the 
GCB until late 2011;
although the GCB was guaranteed to return the original sum invested, theres a real 
risk of a nil return which reduces the value of the original investment in real terms;
the maximum return the GCB could produce  was capped at the equivalent of 5.6 per 
cent per annum. But theres no explanation given as to how its final value was 
calculated for Mr and Mrs S to have  seen what increase in the FTSE 100 Share 
Index was necessary  to give the maximum return. The key features document for the 
GCB confirms that this return  could only be achieved  in very favourable investment 
conditions;
the adviser should have compared the return Mr and Mrs S might  realistically have  
expected from the GCB and the guaranteed return of five per cent per annum a fixed  
rate bond  offered at the time so they could  make an informed choice.
background
In my provisional decision of 24 April 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms a part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold  this complaint.  In summary,  I said I 
agreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold the complaint, but I suggested the following 
redress:
Nat West should  pay Mrs S redress, of D + E, where:
A = the original  investment  of £10,000  in the GCB;
B = interest at the rate of 4.9%  available for a three and a half year fixed rate bond at 
the time,  or similar.
C = the actual value of the bond at the date it matured;    
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.   
Ref: DRN91668632If Nat West considered that it should deduct income tax from the interest calculated in B 
above, it must send  a tax deduction certificate  with the payment. Mrs S may reclaim any tax 
overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if her circumstances permit her to do so, unless 
the tax deduction certificate  wouldnt be applicable. 
Nat West responded  but didnt accept my decision. In short, it made the following key points:
Despite its request, the ombudsman hasnt provided any evidence to support his 
conclusion that Mr and Mrs S didnt understand the risks associated with the 
investment. 
No complaint was made until more than six years after the maturity of the GCB,  and 
this wasnt on a basis of lack of disclosure, but based on arguments relating to 
suitability as presented by the CMC. Mr and Mrs S were therefore  aware,  or should 
have been aware, that this possibility (of no returns) existed.  
Based  on the investments Mr and Mrs S already  held, they werent inexperienced 
investors.   
It had a duty to recommend a suitable product which it has in light of Mr and Mrs Ss 
overall capital position  and circumstances:
oThey held £9,000 as an emergency fund and had other capital  on deposit with 
other providers, details of which they didnt want to disclose. 
oThey also retained £4,000 from the investment that was about to mature and 
held capital invested in an ISA, providing  an income of £203 a month.  
oAssuming a return of 4 per cent,  this means  they had additional capital of 
approximately £61,000. 
Taking these points into account, Mr and Mrs S were risking a nil return  on little more  
than 15 per cent of that capital and not 71 per cent a suggested by the CMC and 
repeated by the adjudicator.   
Mr and Mrs S mightve been  growing  more cautious, the possibility  of a nil return  and 
the level of risk dont  seem to be inherently unsuitable. 
It accepts  my point that it needs  to consider the relative risks and rewards  as 
compared to the risk free alternative of a fixed rate bond and how likely  it would  be 
for the GCB to provide a better return.  
Mr and Mrs S were  both basic rate tax payers  so the net return  they could expect 
from a fixed rate bond with gross return of 4.9 per cent wouldve been 3.92 per cent 
(assuming income  tax at 20 per cent) whereas  the GCB was taxed within the fund 
and wasnt subject  to any additional income  or capital gains tax, unless the 
customers became higher  rate tax payers  which there was no evidence  for. 
Having provided  a breakdown of the figures, and the reward versus the risk as 
compared with fixed rate bond they reflect,  its not apparent why  if explained in 
these terms (and we dont know that it wasnt)  that a person with a cautious attitude 
to risk would find this an unreasonable proposition. 
In regards to the impact of the suggested  tax position, Mr and Mrs S would actually 
have received a gross  return  from a fixed rate bond, and wouldve been subject to 
income tax and thus would only have received a net return  of 20 per cent less than 
the headline  which reduces the 4.9 per cent to 3.92 per cent.  So on what  basis 
would it be fair and reasonable to direct  implementation of a methodology thatd put 
Mrs S in an advantageous  position.  
It understands that its not being  asked to provide a fixed rate bond  to Mrs S which  
would be subject  to tax, but compensation  in lieu of the return  they couldve 
otherwise expected  when compared to, and after deduction of, the returns provided 
by the GCB actually  recommended. Compensation in lieu of such  returns  isnt 
subject to tax.   
Ref: DRN91668633The CMC also responded and accepted the decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the new submissions, my conclusion remains  as set out 
previously, and for the same  reasons.  I uphold  this complaint. 
Ive covered the points I consider to be relevant to my decision and therefore I dont feel it 
necessary to go over the points again in detail. 
 
But much of whats been said by Nat West in response to my provisional decision,  are points 
it has already made or alluded to. 
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Nat West says,  I think  its more  
likely (than not) Mr and Mrs S didnt understand the risks associated  with the investment. Its 
possible they did, but based  on the available evidence, Im unable  to safely  conclude  that 
they did. 
I appreciate the point  made by Nat West about the complaint not being  made  until more than 
six years  after surrender. But I dont understand their complaint to be that they were totally  
unaware they could  only get their capital back. If that had been, I wouldve said the 
complaint hadnt  been made  in time and was outside our jurisdiction.
Even if Nat West had made all the necessary disclosure, it still doesnt mean that the risk of 
no return was suitable. 
In this instance I dont  think  risking  even 15 per cent of Mr and Mrs Ss capital rendered an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable. I dont agree that they were  aware of the likelihood of 
no return. Even if they were in a financial position such  that they could afford not to get any 
returns on this portion of the capital, it still doesnt  mean the recommendation was suitable. 
For the avoidance of doubt I didnt say they were inexperienced investors.  I said they werent  
experienced investors. Ive always made  clear  they werent without some investment 
experience. 
Im grateful  for the breakdown given by Nat West, as will Mrs S I suspect. But Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that an explanation of this level  or anywhere near this level of detail - 
was given to Mr and Mrs S at the point of sale. I appreciate  Nat West says we dont know  
that it wasnt, but on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant  safely  say that that it 
was. If it was, I think its likely there wouldve have been some  documentary evidence of this 
but there isnt.  
I understand the business point on the tax issue but this has already been addressed in my 
provisional decision. In short, the business  may pay the interest net of tax, so long as it 
provides a tax deduction certificate.  Otherwise if its simply a notional  deduction that Mrs S 
has no way of claiming back  providing  that shes eligible to do so  I dont  think its fair. 
Ref: DRN91668634my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint. 
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mrs S redress,  of D + E, where:
A = the original  investment  of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB);
B = interest at the rate of 4.9%  available for a three and a half year fixed rate bond at 
the time,  or similar.
C = the actual value of the GCB at the date it matured;    
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.   
If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that it should deduct  income  tax from the interest 
calculated in B above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs S may 
reclaim any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs, if her circumstances permit  her to 
do so, unless the tax deduction certificate  wouldnt be applicable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91668635COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mrs S has complained through a claims management company (CMC)  about  advice she and her late 
husband (Mr S) received from National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat  West) to take out a Guaranteed  
Capital Bond (GCB).
Her CMC says that:
Mrs S and her husband  were aged 69 and 81 respectively and had retired on modest
incomes. They couldnt  afford  to invest as much as 70 per cent of their total savings in a 
product that could give them  a nil return;
those  savings were  the maturity value  of £14,000  they were due to receive from a five-and-a-
half year investment whose return was also based on the performance of the FSTE 100 
Share Index. Otherwise,  it was an entirely  different product;
although the adviser recorded that both of them were in good health, Mrs Ss husbands 
health was failing at the time.  The GCB didnt include life cover and it paid out on second 
death, or when it matured. Mrs Ss financial  position  inevitably worsened when Mrs Ss 
husband died in late 2009 and she was unable to access  the GCB  until late 2011;
although the GCB  was guaranteed to return the original sum invested, theres  a real riskof a 
nil return which reduces  the value  of the original investment in real terms;
the maximum return the GCB could  produce was capped at the equivalent of 5.6 percent per 
annum. But theres no explanation  given  as to how its final value was calculated  for Mr and 
Mrs S to have  seen what  increase in the FTSE  100 Share Index was necessary  to give the 
maximum return. The key features  document for the GCB confirms that this return  could only 
be achieved in very favourable investment conditions;
the adviser should have compared the return Mr and Mrs S might  realistically have expected 
from the GCB and the guaranteed return of five per cent per annum  a fixed  rate bond offered  
at the time so they could make an informed  choice.
background
Nat West didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said the recommendation for Mrs S and her 
husband was suitable.  
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but thought it should be upheld. In short she said:
In the circumstances,  and on balance,  the recommendation was unsuitable.  
Although Mrs S and her husband had previously invested in a similar product, this 
recommendation was different in that it had a different term and they wanted to invest  a lower 
amount. 
She wasnt satisfied that Mrs S and her husband  understood  the risks involved and especially 
of investing at their age. 
The business  disagreed with the adjudicators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  In 
summary it says:
The recommendation was suitable and the risks were made clear. 
The adjudicators points were based on supposition without any supporting evidence. 
Mrs S and her husband  were aware  of the risk of minimal returns, and naturally they would 
have wanted lower  risk as they got older. 
They  were experienced investors and had invested in a similar product. 
They  remained invested for the full term of the investment. 
Our adjudicator having  considered the additional points  wasnt persuaded to change her mind.  
Ref: DRN91668636As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions provisionally Im going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what Nat West says Im not satisfied that Mrs S 
and her husband were  aware of the risks involved with this product. 
In other words, I dont  think  they understood how this investment  worked,  and on balance Im unable  
to safely  say they were advised of the risk of no return. 
I appreciate they had invested in something similar  in the past  £10,000 invested in a Protected  
Bond in 2002  over five-and-a-half years, which gave them £14,000 at maturity  in 2008.  It was the 
same as the GCB only in that this return was determined  by the performance of the FTSE 100 Share 
Index.
Otherwise, I understand it was fundamentally different to the GCB in respect of the investment  term,  
the minimum guaranteed  return,  investment  allocation  and maximum return.
Nat West says it wouldnt normally recommend this type of investment to a person aged 80 or over, 
but this was suitable  because it was set up in joint names so the GCB could be transferred in the 
event of death. But Im not satisfied that this justified the recommendation.   
Whilst I appreciate  Mrs S and her husband  had some  investment  experience, I dont agree that they 
were experienced investors. I dont think that Mrs S and her husband understood how this investment 
operated and the risks involved. 
As I understand, the FTSE 100 index  linked to the stock market, would have to perform exceptionally 
well, in order  for Mrs S and her husband to do better than the high street  rates of return. And based 
on what Ive seen,  Im unable  to safely say that they were  made  aware of this or the underlying 
complexities in this investment - or the annual  growth rate of the Index that was needed to produce 
21% after three and a half years compared  to a fixed rate bond, in which the capital would be safe 
with a guaranteed return likely to be for the duration of the investment. 
I appreciate what the business says about the actual  maximum return of the investment, but in the 
circumstances I dont  think  Mrs S and her husband,  if advised  properly, would  have opted to invest  in 
the bond  for a relatively small additional sum,  as the hypothetical maximum return wasnt likely to be 
achieved.    
The FTSE 100 Index would  need to reach a certain level before the investment could generate a 
growth. And given their ages at the time I dont agree that the risk of no return was suitable.  Im also 
mindful that there were charges on the investment and potential tax payable that was likely  to have 
had an impact  but this hasnt  influenced my conclusion.  
Im mindful of the points Nat West makes about our adjudicators view, but I dont think  she was 
wrong to consider issues that fell within the suitability umbrella, and then base her conclusions on the 
available evidence.
I agree with the adjudicator that if Mrs S and her husband were aware of the risks involved they 
wouldnt have invested  in the GCB, despite having the possibility of higher returns. The fact they 
remained invested for the full term isnt evidence they were aware of the risks involved.  
 
In terms of redress, I think Nat West should  pay Mrs S redress, of D + E, where:
Ref: DRN91668637A = the original investment of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital  Bond (GCB);
B = interest at the rate available for a three and a half year fixed rate bond at the time, or 
similar.
C = the actual value of the GCB at the date it matured;     
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum  simple  from the date the bond matured to the 
date of settlement.   
I think  the business  should  calculate what Mrs S would have received if she had received 4.9% return  
for the investment  which appears to be the broad  rate of return  from that period based on 
Moneyfacts  on the amount she invested and pay this to her, with interest.
If the business  considers that it should  deduct income  tax from the interest calculated in B above, it 
must send a tax deduction  certificate  with the payment.  Mrs S may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM 
Revenue and Customs, if her circumstances permit her to do so.
I note the business has said in the past,  in similar situations, that it would be offering  compensation  in 
lieu of this return,  and not interest subject to tax, no certificate for the deduction  of tax would therefore  
be applicable. If the business  believes this to be correct  approach,  it wont need to issue a tax 
deduction certificate. 
In other words the business may pay the interest net of tax, so long as it provides a tax deduction  
certificate. Otherwise if its simply a notional  deduction that Mrs S has no way of claiming back   
providing that shes eligible to do so  I dont think its fair. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any submissions I provisionally uphold this complaint. 
I require  National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mrs S redress, of D + E, where:
A = the original investment of £10,000  in the Guaranteed Capital  Bond (GCB);
B = interest at the rate of 4.9% available  for a three and a half year fixed rate bond at the 
time, or similar.
C = the actual value of the GCB at the date it matured;     
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum  simple  from the date the bond matured to the 
date of settlement.   
If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that it should  deduct income tax from the interest 
calculated in B above,  it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.  Mrs S may reclaim 
any tax overpaid  from HM Revenue and Customs, if her circumstances permit  her to do so, unless the 
tax deduction certificate wouldnt be applicable.  
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9166863