K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs T took out PPI with a mortgage in 1994.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Their main  complaint is that they had stable jobs and good sick pay through  
work. Mr and Mrs T said they didnt think it likely that either  of them  wouldve had a financial 
need to make a claim on the policy for accident  or sickness. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Heres  why I say this.
Mr and Mrs T took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
everything theyve told us about  their circumstances when the policy was taken out.  
Normally, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But RBS hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs T from this sale. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed many years ago. 
I wouldnt expect RBS to have kept records about a closed account  for so long. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs T might  be able to remember  about 
the sale after such a long time.   
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely.
Mr and Mrs T said they took out the PPI during a meeting at the bank. RBS told us that its 
sales procedure would  have been to provide Mr and Mrs T with information on the cost,  
benefits, exclusions and limitations of the policy. And that this information  wouldve been 
provided at the time of sale.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment and their home wouldve been at risk if 
the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, 
I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
Ref: DRN97057772Mr and Mrs T were  both eligible  for PPI. On balance,  I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs T were 
aware that it was up to them  to choose if they wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered - 
and the policy was added to their account when they chose  to take it out. 
It doesnt appear that RBS gave advice or a recommendation about PPI to Mr and Mrs T. 
But RBS still had to make sure it told them enough  about the policy  for them to decide  if they 
wanted to buy it. I think, broadly speaking, it did - and where  it mightnt have done, better 
information wouldnt have  made a difference.  
Ive looked carefully  at what Mr and Mrs T told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage. And I think they couldve benefitted 
from having PPI based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.
Both Mr and Mrs T told us that they couldve only depended on getting  full sick pay for 
6 months. The policy  couldve covered  their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  if 
either of them  had an accident  or was too sick or disabled to work. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay received  through work.  This couldve  been useful  particularly if they 
faced extra costs as a result of illness  or disability.  
PPI also protected  Mr and Mrs T in the event  of unemployment for up to 12 months per 
claim. No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. 
So I can see why Mr and Mrs T mightve  wanted PPI  even  if theyve forgotten this now.  
Mr and Mrs T made a successful unemployment  claim under the policy  so it appears that 
the PPI did prove useful.   
It looks like the mortgage was based  on Mr and Mrs T both being in work when they took it 
out. I dont  know  how easy it wouldve been  for Mr and Mrs T to keep up the mortgage 
monthly repayments if either of them couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. So I find the way the benefit was split between them seems reasonable.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs T were affected  by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover when  they took it out. So, I think it unlikely that better  information about  
the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off having the PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs T when  they bought the policy.  
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And this was a 
policy they paid for monthly  so they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs T still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd  been  better  informed as the 
policy gave them useful  protection  in their particular situation. So I dont find theyve lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that RBS may have done wrong. This means theres 
nothing RBS needs to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN97057773my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9705777