K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the decision of American International Group  UK Limited  (AIG) 
to decline his claim and cancel his caravan insurance policy after his caravan suffered storm 
damage.
background
In July 2018, Mrs F, on behalf of her husband,  Mr F, rang AIG to apply for cover  for their 
static caravan. She explained that the caravan had previously suffered damage  to its roof in 
a storm and that they had received a settlement of nearly £6,000 after their insurer  wrote  off 
the caravan. However, she said her husband  had since repaired the damage.  AIG said it 
couldnt insure the caravan until it had seen an engineers report  to confirm the caravan was 
now in a good state of repair.
In August  2018,  Mrs F called AIG again  to seek cover but this time spoke to a different 
representative. AIG agreed to provide cover for the caravan.
In November 2018, Mrs F rang AIG to make a claim, saying that the roof of the caravan had 
suffered damage  in high winds. After obtaining further information, AIG concluded that the 
roof hadnt  properly been repaired following the previous damage. It said that Mrs F had 
wrongly advised it at the time of taking out the policy that the caravan was in a good state of 
repair. It said if it had known this wasnt the case, it wouldnt have offered to provide  cover.  
In view of this, it said it would be declining the claim, cancelling the policy  and refunding 
Mr Fs premiums.
Mr F was unhappy at AIGs decision.  He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that AIG had acted  fairly.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said the roof had been in a good state of 
repair at the time the policy was taken out. He wanted us to contact the loss adjuster for his 
previous insurer.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
I have listened  to the August 2018  telephone call. AIGs representative asked whether the 
caravan was in a good state of repair and Mrs F said it was. The representative also asked 
whether she or Mr F had made  any insurance  claims  in the past five years and Mrs F replied 
that they hadnt. The representative went on to ask whether she or Mr F had ever had 
insurance cover refused  or cancelled.   Mrs  F explained that there had been an occasion 
when the caravan roof had suffered some small damage and the insurer  had agreed to 
provide a total loss cash  settlement  but her husband had carried out the repair himself. 
After checking  with the underwriter, the representative confirmed that this didnt mean theyd 
been refused  cover  and so didnt preclude AIG from offering cover.
Ref: DRN92426772After Mr F made his claim, AIGs loss adjuster assessed the damage. It noted that the roof of 
the caravan was in a poor condition and had previously been subject to patch repairs.
The loss adjuster also discovered that the damage  which Mrs F described  had occurred  in 
September 2017. A repair company (which Ill call R) assessed  the damage  in October 
2017. R noted that Mr F had carried out a temporary repair  but said that the roof skin had a 
big gash and was buckled. It said the repair would cost £1,615. In May 2018, R revisited the 
site. It noted that the proposed repair still hadnt  been carried out and the damage had 
become more severe. It considered  that the roof had become very weak and that a new roof 
would need to be fitted, for which the caravan  would  have to be removed off-site. It quoted a 
repair cost of £5,666. In July 2018, the insurer agreed to make a cash  payment of £5,925 to 
settle the claim.
The loss adjuster concluded that the damage  had never properly been repaired following the 
2017 incident. I consider this was a reasonable conclusion to draw.  In May 2018,  the 
caravan was assessed as needing a new roof. Mr F chose  not to get a new roof, even 
though he received an insurance payment. He instead tried to carry out a repair. While Mr F 
thinks this was an adequate repair, he has provided  no evidence  to demonstrate this. Mr F 
has disputed Rs assessment of the damage  in May 2018 and has asked  that we contact  the 
loss adjuster for his previous insurer. However,  I have no reasonable grounds to question  
Rs report and it is up to Mr F to obtain  evidence  to support his case.  Given  the poor 
condition of the roof when inspected by the loss adjuster, and in the absence of evidence to 
show that the caravan had been properly repaired since May 2018, I consider it was 
reasonable for AIG to say that the caravan roof probably wasnt in a good state of repair at 
the time the cover started.
I therefore consider  that Mrs F was wrong  to tell AIG that the caravan was in a good state of 
repair when she applied  for the cover. I also consider  that she was wrong to say there had 
been no insurance claims in the past five years.
AIG has explained that if Mrs F had answered  correctly its question  about whether the 
caravan was in a good state of repair, it wouldnt have offered cover. Im satisfied this was 
correct, and indeed  it was apparent from the telephone call of July 2018  when AIG said it 
would need an engineers  report before it would provide cover.  I consider the only reason it 
didnt say the same thing  in the August 2018  call was because  Mrs F had said there had 
been no insurance claims in the past five years,  which may have misled  AIG into believing  
the damage she was describing had occurred over five years earlier.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 sets out that in a 
situation such as this, where a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation which  has 
caused an insurer to offer cover when it wouldnt have done  so otherwise, the insurer  is 
entitled to void the policy (meaning it may treat the policy  as if it never existed). I therefore 
consider it was fair for AIG to decline Mr Fs claim, void his policy  and refund his premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Ref: DRN92426773David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9242677