K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs T say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Its not surprising,  given how long ago the sale took place, that not all of the information  
from the times still available. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest NatWest  failed  to make it 
clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI or that they didnt choose  to take 
it out  although I can understand if they cant remember this now.
I dont think NatWest  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But it seems  they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
cover. So it would have been useful for them  if something went wrong despite their 
employment benefits. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs T paid on their policy   and whether  
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWests told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ts policy was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ts commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs T back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ref: DRN99969112ombudsman
Ref: DRN9996911