K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about Lloyds Bank  PLCs  decision to default his credit card account.
background
Mr K had a direct  debit  set up to pay the minimum  balance on his Lloyds credit card. In April 
2017, this direct debt was cancelled and payments were missed. Lloyds tried to contact Mr K 
a number of times over the next few months  but didnt receive a response. So, Lloyds 
defaulted the account in November 2017.
Mr K complained about Lloyds decision to default the account. He said the account 
disappeared from his online banking so he assumed he didnt need  to make any more 
payments. He said he hadnt  been receiving Lloyds letters  as they hadnt  updated  his 
address. Because of this, he didnt  know that charges were being  added and couldnt make 
a payment to stop them. 
So, he thought  Lloyds should refund the interest  and charges the account incurred as well as 
remove the default. He also wanted  additional  compensation to recognise the stress the 
default caused.
Lloyds said they felt the charges were  reasonable and in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. They said Mr K didnt  update  them of his change  in address. So, they were  
reasonable in sending  letters to the address they already held. Mr K was unhappy with this 
response so he referred his complaint  to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld  it. She said Lloyds had been made 
aware of Mr Ks address change but failed to update their systems. Because  of this, Mr K 
wasnt made aware of the potential default  and given an opportunity prevent it. So, she felt it 
should be removed.  But, she felt the charges and interest  were  fair as Mr K hadnt made his 
minimum payments.
She also thought  Lloyds  should pay Mr K £150  to recognise the trouble and upset the 
default of his account caused. Both Mr K and Lloyds disagreed.
Lloyds agreed  with the £150 payment but didnt  feel the default  should be removed unless 
Mr K was able to pay the balance in full within the next 30 days. Mr K wanted a larger  
compensation amount to recognise  how seriously the default had impacted his personal life 
and also to ensure  Lloyds  didnt make similar mistakes in the future.
As both parties disputed  the view, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint  
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Following the investigators initial assessment, Lloyds have accepted they failed  to update  Mr 
Ks address on his credit card account when he updated them in September 2016. So I dont 
think any of the letters  and statements sent to Mr K were received after this date. Ill consider 
the impact of this error through the decision.
Ref: DRN95629452Mr K says he cancelled the direct  debit as he assumed the account had been closed. 
Although Ive seen  nothing  to show the account disappeared from his online account, I think  
its reasonable for Mr K to be confused about  his responsibilities when considering  that his 
monthly statements  werent being sent to the right address.
But, Ive also seen  Mr Ks full history of statements. They show  on the statement dated 25 
August 2016,  before  his change of address, his outstanding balance  at £593.03. For the 
next seven months,  Mr K continued his direct  debit which covered the minimum payment 
required. I think Mr K should have  been reasonably aware that these minimum payments 
wouldnt clear the outstanding  balance.  
So, if the account disappeared from his online banking and he stopped receiving  monthly 
statements, Id expect  him to contact  Lloyds to ask why. Mr K has said his didnt do this. I 
dont think this was reasonable. Because of this, I think Mr Ks failure  to contact Lloyds  led to 
the missed payments and so Lloyds have  applied the late payment charges and interest up 
until the default fairly. So, I dont think they should  be refunded.
But, I dont think Mr K would have been reasonably aware about the default. As the default  
notice was sent to the incorrect address, Mr K wasnt given a fair opportunity to arrange  
payment of the arrears in order to prevent a default  on his credit  file. Had he been given this 
opportunity, I think the default could have been avoided.  
Although I cant say for certain that Mr K wouldve paid the arrears, I think its reasonable to 
assume he would have taken some  action when I consider the steps hes taken to have the 
default removed  since. Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ks credit  file which shows  he manages 
his debts positively.  So, Lloyds should remove the default from Mr Ks credit  file in order  to 
return him to the position he was in before their error  happened.
I want to stress this doesnt  affect  the outstanding  balance and that it remains  payable. Once 
the default has been removed, Lloyds will be entitled to restart  their collections process and 
follow it as they would normally.
Ive seen Mr K says the default of his account  and Lloyds actions following it have caused 
him a significant amount of stress. He says the stress has worsened a sensitive medical 
condition which has in turn contributed to the breakdown of his relationship. 
Ive havent seen anything to show the stress caused by Lloyds error was the only cause of 
the medical condition mentioned. It would be unfair for me to hold Lloyds solely responsible  
for this. But, I think the error in recording the default created a situation  that would impact  on 
any health condition  that was affected  by stress.
I also think itd be unfair  for me to hold Lloyds solely responsible for the breakdown of Mr Ks 
relationship for the same reasons. But again,  I think its likely the stress Mr K experienced 
added to the difficulties the relationship  experienced  at the time. So, I think  Lloyds error has 
caused Mr K trouble  and upset, and a payment should  be made to compensate for this.
But, I also think Mr Ks failure to contact Lloyds  when his account  disappeared from his 
online banking was a contributor to the stress  he experienced. Had he done  so, I think  its 
likely he would have continued  to make payments and prevented  a default being placed.  So, 
he wouldnt  have experienced the worry arising from the default and the stress in 
complaining to Lloyds to have it removed.
Ref: DRN95629453For these reasons, I think that a payment of £150 compensates  Mr K fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr K complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. They  
must remove the default from Mr Ks credit file to place him back in the position  he wouldve 
been had their error not occurred. They must also pay Mr K £150 to recognise  the trouble  
and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9562945