K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains Bank  of Baroda wont allow her to change her SIPP provider without 
closing and reopening her fixed term deposit account which will result  in a loss of interest.
Mrs As complaint is brought on her behalf  by her husband, Mr A.
background
Mrs A holds three five-year fixed term deposit  accounts within  her SIPP   one of which  is 
with Bank  of Baroda.  She recently decided to change SIPP providers to reduce her monthly 
charges. Mr A says he contacted each of the banks Mrs A holds a fixed  deposit account with 
to make sure she could change SIPP provider. He says he was initially told by Bank of 
Baroda she could.  But Bank of Baroda  has since said, because Mrs S is in the middle of the 
fixed term, she would need to close and reopen the fixed  deposit  account which  would mean 
the interest rate would reduce from 2.75% to 1.30%. Mr A complained on behalf  of Mrs A to 
Bank of Baroda about this as he says all that is happening is the name on the account is 
changing. 
Bank of Baroda didnt  respond to Mrs As complaint so Mr A referred the matter  to us where 
one of our investigators  looked into things. He thought  Bank of Baroda shouldve allowed for 
a change of SIPP provider without the need  for the account to be closed  and reopened. So 
he recommended  Bank of Baroda  allow this and pay Mrs A the difference  between what  she 
had been paying in monthly fees to her current SIPP provider and the fees she wouldve 
been paying to the new provider.
Mrs A agreed with our investigators assessment. Bank of Baroda maintained its terms and 
conditions allowed it to close  and reopen  the account with a new rate of interest.  It did agree 
to allow  the change of SIPP provider without  changing  the interest rate, but it wasnt  willing  
to cover the difference in monthly fees Mrs A had incurred. Mrs A didnt accept this and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint, so it was passed  to me.
I explained to Bank  of Baroda I agreed  with our investigator and couldnt  see why one 
trustee couldnt be removed and replaced  with another.  Bank of Baroda  explained  the 
account wasnt held in Mrs As name, it was held in the name of the SIPP  provider with 
Mrs A as a trustee. And so the account  wouldve needed to have been closed and reopened 
in the new SIPP providers name.  Bank of Baroda agreed the trustees couldve been 
changed but said it had never received such instructions. Instead  it had received  an 
application for a new account from the new SIPP provider. It still didnt think  it should refund  
the difference in SIPP fees to Mrs A.
I responded to Bank of Baroda  explaining that I thought it was clear what  Mrs A was trying  to 
achieve, and it was the communication  from Bank  of Baroda itself which had caused the 
confusion. I explained I still intended to uphold the complaint. Bank  of Baroda didnt respond 
so Ive decided  to proceed  with issuing a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN96963962When Mr A first contacted  Bank  of Baroda by email he asked if he was able to change  the 
SIPP provider on Mrs As account. He got very brief responses from Bank of Baroda simply 
explaining there were  no charges. So an application  was submitted by the new SIPP 
provider. Ive seen  a copy of this application  form, and it isnt clear that what they wanted to 
achieve was simply changing  the SIPP provider. The application is in fact for a new account. 
But I think Bank of Baroda shouldve been aware that Mrs A was clearly trying to amend the 
SIPP provider given  Mr As previous contact and questions. And even if this wasnt clear to 
Bank of Baroda at this time, when Mr A complained, he said in his complaint letter:
I wish to clarify again, I did not ask for the account  to be closed and reopened. All I
wanted to do is change the name of the SIPP provider,  but you are saying in order to
do this I must close the account and reopen  at a loss of interest over the next 3 years
of around £2500, effectively a charge of £2500 to change a name. This is grossly
unfair.
At this point, Bank of Baroda  shouldve realised what  Mrs A was trying to achieve  and 
explained to Mr A how to go about  this. Instead, it simply explained that one account needed 
to be closed and another  reopened. After Mr A complained, he doesnt  seem to have 
received further  responses from Bank of Baroda.  
Ive seen the responses that Bank of Baroda  sent to Mr A before he complained.  I dont 
intend to quote them fully, but to summarise,  these are often unclear in their content, and 
doesnt answer the questions he has asked or provide the information requested. Ive also 
received similar responses when trying to investigate this complaint  further.  Bank of Baroda  
has at separate  times told us the account  is in the name of the trust administering  the 
scheme with Mrs A and the SIPP provider as trustees, and that the account is in the name of 
the SIPP provider.  Clearly these are conflicting and cant  both be true.
From what  I can see, the account name  is the SIPP trust and Mrs A and the SIPP provider  
are trustees. Based on this, it should  be very simple for one trustee  to be removed and 
replaced with another, in this case the old SIPP provider being replaced  with the new one. I 
believe most of the confusion in this situation  has been  caused by Bank of Barodas 
communication. What  Mrs A was trying to do was a relatively simple transaction,  which is 
fairly common in the industry, and I think she shouldve been able to do it without any 
changes to the terms of his account.
Having considered everything  I have, I dont think Bank of Baroda has been helpful when 
dealing with Mrs A. It hasnt clearly noted any of its previous correspondence when 
responding to Mr As questions, nor has it clearly explained how Mrs A could achieve what  
she wanted. Had it done so and responded as it should have and explained clearly what  
Mrs A needed to do, I think its likely  that she wouldve been able to moved SIPP  provider.
Mr A says Mrs A was going to be saving monthly fees of approximately £29 per month each  
by switching SIPP providers. And I think by not being able to, shes lost out on being able to 
save this amount on a monthly basis. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im going  to tell Bank of Baroda to allow  the transfer of 
SIPP provider without  having to close and reopen  the account,  or amend the interest  rate. It 
should also pay Mrs A the difference she wouldve saved in fees from one month  after the 
application to transfer was submitted by the new provider (as the transfer wouldnt have  
been instant) to the date Mrs A transfers  her SIPP, and add 8% simple  interest  to this. 
Ref: DRN96963963However, I think this should be dependent on Mrs A transferring her SIPP  to a new provider 
within a reasonable period of time  in my opinion two months from her telling us if she 
accepts my decision is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. To put matters  right, Bank of Baroda should  
allow Mrs A to change the named SIPP providers on her Bank of Baroda  account 
without having  to close the account and lose the interest rate she currently has on 
that account
if Mrs A changes  SIPP  provider within three  months of accepting this decision, and 
upon Mrs A providing evidence of the previous SIPP  monthly charges and the new 
monthly SIPP charges,  refund  the difference in fees from a month after Mrs A 
originally tried to change SIPP providers to the date the change  is made.  It should 
add 8% simple interest to this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9696396