K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains about the quality of a car he financed  through a fixed  sum loan provided by 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc, trading  as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander).
background 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the view of the investigator. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr I made  a claim through them for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation.
The relevant  law says the quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr I. The car here 
was a little over five years  old and had already completed 55,600  miles.  So, Id expect some  
wear and tear to have occurred.
The relevant  legislation  says that the business are responsible for the quality of the car when 
supplied. But it would  not be reasonable to hold Santander responsible for faults that 
developed subsequently.  
Ref: DRN95759062Im persuaded there was a fault with the car when  Mr I took receipt of it as he reported  the 
Engine Management Light (EML) had illuminated within the first few weeks  of ownership.  
In those circumstances the relevant legislation would give the business an opportunity to 
repair the fault.
If that fault wasnt repaired successfully the relevant legislation would suggest that the 
business may consider allowing the customer to reject  the car. 
Mr I says the initial repair didnt work  or wasnt completed. He believes the fault codes would 
have been available to the technician who attended  to repair  the car. Hes provided  evidence 
that he was still complaining  in August 2018, only a month after the inception of the deal, 
about the EML illuminating due to the need for a Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) regeneration. 
The DPF was regenerated in November 2019  at Mr Is expense and he tells us the car has 
been working well since. 
But theres insufficient evidence of how the fault occurred. Its unclear whether the problem 
is due to a fault with the DPF which Id think was Santanders responsibility; or a gradual 
blockage of the DPF. This could occur in normal service if journeys were  too short to initiate 
automatic regeneration of the filter and it may be the case that if that was the cause it would 
not have been Santanders  responsibility.
As the car has now been repaired I dont think it would be feasible  to ascertain which  of 
those issues, if any, resulted in the need  for the DPF repair in November 2019.  But I dont 
think the business have helped Mr I as much  as they could have here. I think  its clear  Mr I 
was still having  problems with the car in August  2018 and with the correct guidance or repair  
the subsequent problems  may have been avoided. 
So, I dont think it would  be reasonable to suggest that Santander  facilitate a rejection of the 
car. But, the business could have been more  helpful. If they had been, I think  its possible 
further problems  could have been  avoided.
So, I think a more proportionate response would be to tell Santander to refund  the costs  Mr I 
incurred to repair the problem in November  2019. That bill was £1,609.76. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to refund £1,609.76  that Mr I paid to have  the DPF issue resolved.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9575906