K821x#15complaint
Ms I complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd turned down a claim on her motor  breakdown
insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference  to Bastion includes  its agents.
background
Ms I called Bastion  as her car had broken down and she thought it needed  taking to a
garage for repair. She said when shed tried to drive her car it made a scraping noise and it
felt like something was holding it back.
Bastion reviewed Ms Is claim  and said, as she could move her car, the breakdown wasnt
covered by the policy. They said her car needed to be immobile to be covered but offered to
recover it for an additional fee.
Ms I didnt think this was fair and complained. She said, while  her car could move a small
distance, there was metal  hanging down and dragging on the floor. She said because
Bastion hadnt  recovered her car, shed arranged alternative recovery.
Bastion reviewed Ms Is complaint and didnt uphold it. They said, as her car wasnt immobile
her claim for assistance wasnt  covered by the policy. Bastion also said the exhaust must
have rusted  and partly fallen off, which meant  the claim also wouldnt  be covered as Ms I
hadnt maintained her car properly. Ms I disagreed and brought  her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 May 2020 where I said:
The terms and conditions  of Ms Is policy say if her car suffers  a breakdown then Bastion will
send roadside  assistance  to attempt to repair the car. They go on to say if the car cant be
repaired then they will arrange  recovery  to a local garage. The policy  defines breakdown as
an electrical or mechanical failure which immediately  renders the Vehicle immobile.
Bastion has said that, as Ms I said her car could move forward  slightly, then by her own
admission, the car isnt immobile. And therefore, not covered by the policy.  Ive looked to see
if Bastion has applied this term in a fair and reasonable way.
When Ms I called Bastion  she said shed  tried to drive her car but there was a screeching
noise coming from the bottom of the car and felt like something was holding  it back.  She said
she stopped the car, as it was barely  moving. And shed noticed something metal  had fallen
from it. Ms I said she didnt want to try to drive her car in case  she caused further damage.
Bastion asked if she could  move  her car forward and backwards and she said it would move
a little  bit. Because of this Bastion said Ms Is car was still mobile and therefore  not covered
under the policy.
So, while technically  using the most favourable interpretation for Bastion  and one which
clearly suited them, Ms Is car wasnt immobile, I dont think Bastion applied  the policy terms
in a fair and reasonable  way. I say this because while Ms Is car could still move slightly,  I
dont think that means  it was what most  people would describe as mobile.  Plus, it clearly
wasnt safe or sensible to drive it. The repair  invoice Ms I provided shows  a suspension
spring had broken. This was causing  a scrapping noise and made the car feel as though
something was holding it back. So, Im satisfied it needed repairing before it would operate
Ref: DRN94062682normally again. So, I think the car had clearly suffered a mechanical  failure  and wasnt in a
condition to be driven. So, when thinking  about whats  fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances Im satisfied the car was what most people would consider immobile when
contacting a roadside assistance provider. The sort of problem Ms I experienced is exactly
the sort of problem  people buy a roadside  assistance policy to protect them  against. And I
find it very surprising indeed that Bastion  thinks its approach was reasonable.
As Im persuaded that Ms Is car was effectively immobile,  I dont think Bastion should have
turned down her claim and refused her assistance. And she should not have had to make
alternative arrangements to have her car recovered. I understand Ms I arranged recovery at
a cost of £65. As this is money Ms I shouldnt have had to pay I think  the fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint is for Bastion to refund this amount to her.
I also think Bastions approach must  have caused Ms I distress and inconvenience, as she
had the hassle and worry of making  alternative  arrangements, when she thought  shed be
able to rely on the roadside assistance cover shed bought for just the situation  she was in.
So, I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint Bastion should also
pay Ms I £100 in compensation.
Ms I responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. Bastion didnt provide any 
comments on the decision but asked to see a copy of the recovery invoice. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms I accepted my provisional  decision and Bastion didnt have  any further comments,  I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint. I 
require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Ms I £65. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd should also 
pay Ms I £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020..
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9406268