K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr G took out three instalment loans with Mr Lender in February and March 2018.  Loans 
one and two were repayable over three instalments. Mr G repaid those loans soon after he 
took them out and paid only small sums in interest  on those loans. 
Loan three was repayable over six instalments. Mr G told Mr Lender that he was in financial 
difficulty and Mr Lender agreed a repayment plan. Mr G repaid £3 in relation to loan three so 
theres a remaining balance outstanding on that loan. A summary of Mr Gs lending  with Mr 
Lender is as follows:
date £ amount date repaid
120 February 2018 200 22 February 2018 
220 March 2018 250 23 March 2018  
326 March 2018 750 outstanding
 
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Mr Lender  said that it could have conducted  further checks  
in relation to Mr Gs employment.  It offered  to reduce the outstanding balance on loan three 
from £1,497 to £747 and to set up a repayment plan. Mr G didnt accept that and pursued his 
complaint. 
Mr G says that his job was made redundant in September 2017  and hes been out of work 
since then. He says that Mr Lender  didnt carry out suitable checks  and didnt ask him for 
bank statements. Mr G says that a quick google search of the job he said he had would have  
shown that it didnt exist, so Mr Lender should  have known that he didnt have an income.  
He says that he was gambling heavily at the time.  
Mr G also complains about  how Mr Lender  responded to his complaint. He wants it to write 
off the debt completely and change its procedures.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Gs complaint. She didnt think  that Mr Lender  should 
have given Mr G loan three. She set out what she thought  Mr Lender should  do to put 
matters right. 
After some exchanges of e-mails with the adjudicator, Mr Lender  accepted  her 
recommendation. Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. He said that Mr 
Lender should write off the debt,  as hes not in a position to repay  it, even with a repayment 
plan. Mr G says that Mr Lender loaned him a large sum whilst we was vulnerable. He says 
that he gambled the money away. Mr G says that Mr Lender should have known about his 
problems. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN95310682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The powers of the Financial Ombudsman  Service dont include complaint handling. So, I 
cant consider the part of Mr Gs complaint about how Mr Lender  dealt  with his complaint. 
Also, this service isnt the regulator, so I cant direct Mr Lender  generally about how it 
conducts its business. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by this but I cant act outside my 
legal powers. 
I can look at Mr Gs complaint that Mr Lender  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner. Weve 
set out our general  approach to complaints about short-term lending  - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good  industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably  repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ref: DRN95310683Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to give Mr G loans one and two. Given  the repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time and his history with the 
lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr G   
for the amount of information needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. There  wasnt 
anything in the information Mr G provided  or the information Mr Lender  shouldve been 
aware of, which  meant it wouldve been  proportionate for it to start verifying what  Mr G said. I 
think that Mr Lender was entitled  to rely on what Mr G said at this point. 
In relation to loan three, Mr Lender says that it could  have conducted further checks on
Mr Gs employment. Its made an offer in relation to loan three. I think Mr Lenders offer to 
reduce the outstanding balance on loan three from £1,497 to £747  is fair. That offer reduces 
the balance to the amount  of capital Mr G borrowed originally, less the small sum Mr G has 
already repaid. Mr Lender has also offered to agree a repayment plan. 
Mr G wants Mr Lender to write off the capital he owes. I dont  think that would lead to a fair 
outcome here. Mr G had the use and benefit  of the money  he borrowed. I appreciate that
Mr G now considers that he didnt benefit  from the money. Im afraid I dont  agree  but I 
appreciate that Mr G no doubt  wishes that he hadnt  spent  it on gambling. Considering 
everything, I dont think that there  are any grounds  on which  to direct Mr Lender to write off 
the capital Mr G borrowed for loan three. 
In addition to its offer Ive referred to above,  Mr Lender has now agreed to remove adverse 
information about loan three from Mr Gs credit file. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
reduce the balance  outstanding on loan three to £747 and agree a repayment  plan 
with Mr G, which it has already offered to do. 
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Gs credit  file;
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint  in part. PDL Finance Limited,  
trading as Mr Lender, should take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9531068