K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that National  Westminster  Bank Plc (the bank) hasnt re-credited his 
account with several  ATM  withdrawals which he says he didnt carry out or authorise. 
background
The withdrawals took place on several  occasions  in January, February and March 2019, all 
at the same  ATM. Mr F says he didnt carry out the withdrawals himself and his bank card 
remained in his possession at all times.  He says he was elsewhere in the UK when the 
withdrawals happened. He thinks his bank card must have been cloned.
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr Fs complaint,  saying  it couldnt do so as the banks evidence  
indicated the withdrawals had been made  with Mr Fs bank card and PIN and the card had 
remained in Mr Fs possession.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. He thought there were various factors that 
were inconsistent with Mr Fs understanding of events including:
There were  two undisputed transactions that took place very close  in space and time 
to two disputed  withdrawals.
There was other  evidence that Mr F wasnt elsewhere in the UK around the time of 
some of the withdrawals.  
Evidence showed the withdrawals had been  carried out using  Mr Fs card and PIN. 
Thered been  no cloning.
Mr F had apparently checked his account during the period when the withdrawals 
were happening,  so it was likely he could see the balance  on his account.
The pattern and nature of the withdrawals werent consistent  with how a fraudster 
was likely to behave  if in possession  of the means to make  withdrawals  from 
someone elses account.
The investigator concluded he wasnt able to say the disputed withdrawals were  made  by a 
third party without Mr Fs authorisation. He also concluded the bank  wasnt  at fault for not 
querying the withdrawals  at the time, as the bank had no reason to believe the withdrawals 
were being  made fraudulently. 
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. He asked again for CCTV evidence  which  
would prove  he hadnt  made the withdrawals.  And he suggested he might  be the victim of 
discrimination. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I too have 
concluded his complaint  doesnt succeed.
Its unfortunate it wasnt possible to obtain CCTV evidence.  But I think  theres  enough other 
evidence to allow me to come to my findings.  
Its not my impression that discrimination has played a part in how Mr Fs complaint has 
been investigated. 
Ref: DRN91930992The investigators written conclusions were comprehensive and thorough.  Theres  little Id 
wish or need to add. I too think the available  evidence  doesnt point to Mr F not having  
authorised the disputed  withdrawals, for the reasons the investigator  gave.
Mr F was understandably disappointed by the investigators conclusions, but hes not offered 
any explanation  or counter-argument to the points he made.  That being so, and as I cant  
think of any explanation or counter-argument either, it follows  I have no basis  on which  to 
reach different conclusions to the investigators.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9193099