K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in connection with a store card in 2002. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld, because  he didnt think Mrs 
M wouldve  bought the policy if shed  had better information  about  its cost and benefit. FICL 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided  by FICL, its unlikely Mrs M would have taken 
it out. 
The information FICL gave Mrs M about  the cost and benefit wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. I say this because  although Mrs M may have  been told the cost was £1.00 per 
£100 of the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely she wouldve been told that the premium 
would be added to her store card balance and could attract  interest. I also think its unlikely 
that FICL  pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Mrs M 
would have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs M because  at the point of sale she was entitled  to full 
pay from her employer  if she was off sick for six months, followed by half pay for the next six 
months. Shes also told us she had savings worth between six and twelve months of her 
pay. So she doesnt appear  to have had a strong need for the policy, given she had other 
ways to meet the store card repayments for a while  without it.
I dont think Mrs C would still have wanted to take out the policy  if she had better  understood 
its cost and limited benefit to her. 
So I think Mrs C has been disadvantaged as a result  of FICLs failings in this case, because  I 
dont think she would  have taken out the policy if better information  had been  available.
what FICL should do to put things  right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Ref: DRN92737042A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs M would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs M would have owed 
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C.If  when FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs M would 
have owed FICL something on her store card. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
D.FICL  should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Financial  Insurance Company Limited to 
pay compensation to Mrs M in line with the instructions  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9273704