K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the way that Zurich dealt with their home insurance claim for 
water damage to their home.
background
Mr and Mrs C made  their claim to Zurich on 17 August 2018. They were told the claim had to 
be assessed for liability first. Also asbestos testing needed to be done.  Mr and Mrs C felt 
they werent helped  with regard to getting temporary  accommodation. They initially  stayed at 
a hotel for two nights  but then ended  up sleeping on the floor at a relatives house for five 
nights.
There were concerns about delay, the first asbestos test sample was lost and it had to be 
redone. Also the walls needed scarifying to assist drying and there were some delays in 
getting this under way. Further delays were also caused by the carpets  not being removed at 
first. Mr and Mrs C were  offered a cash settlement  but they opted to have Zurichs 
contractors complete the repairs. The repairs were  completed by 10 December 2018.
Mr and Mrs C raised  complaints about the safety  of electrical sockets,  and their daughter  
being displaced  from her bedroom  for the duration  of the repairs. They also pointed  out that 
theyd had to arrange removal of a high sleeper bed and cleaning  up of mould.  Zurich  paid 
them £160  (£80 each item) to compensate. It also paid compensation of £210 in recognition  
of 7 nights staying with a family member and £1,110  In recognition  of the sleeping  
arrangements for their daughter. In addition it waived the two excesses for buildings and 
contents, a total of £700, and paid £150 additional compensation for trouble and upset. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Zurich should pay a further £200 
compensation in respect of the health  and safety issues and delays and miscommunications. 
Zurich didnt agree, pointing  out that it had already awarded £850  just for trouble and upset. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the proposed further award.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the compensation already paid by 
Zurich was reasonable and I didnt propose  increasing it.
Neither party has made any comments on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
delays and miscommunication
Serious water damage to a house  is always going to take a while  to deal with. The house  
had to be dried out which as Mr and Mrs C found,  required  stripping out. Here  the header  
tank had failed which would have affected the whole  house. Overall the repairs took just 
under four months  which might have been  a little long, but in the context of most water  
damage claims we see, not excessively so. Ive mentioned the overall length of time as 
these sorts  of claims are very stressful in themselves. Mr C has referred to how stressful it 
was for him and his family. When considering  compensation for trouble  and upset, I have to 
Ref: DRN97232522consider not the stress caused by the claim itself but any extra  caused  by the way the claim 
was handled by Zurich or its agents.
Here there were some  periods of delay, for example  in not scarifying the walls for three 
weeks after this was identified as being needed.  Also the carpets  should  have been taken 
out at first, again  adding to the delay. Zurich agree that this was an oversight. Mr C says 
they were hazardous to them containing  black  water. No doubt  damp  carpets arent good 
for anyones  health  but my understanding of black water is water that contains sewage  which  
isnt the case  here.
Mr C also refers to miscommunications and him having to take action  himself.  I havent seen 
any specific instances of this but it does  appear that he was disappointed  with the way the 
loss adjuster dealt  with the claim. Zurich admitted to delays and some  miscommunications 
but contends it has adequately compensated for that.
health and safety issues
Zurich says a test for asbestos was done  but the sample was mislaid, they had to be redone 
and came back negative.  Mr C doubts that they were done at first. I think  it has to be 
accepted that the sample was taken  Zurich says it was a 2cm sample. Without extensive 
enquiries of the laboratory and the contractor its going to be difficult to prove a negative. I 
accept here that Zurich  was responsible for some  delay and that this caused Mr and Mrs C 
some anxiety in the meantime, until the test result.
Mr and Mrs C also say they were  told by the contractor  that it would be alright  to use sockets 
affected by water damage. The contractor denies having said that and again  it would be 
difficult to prove otherwise. Mr and Mrs C immediately checked the position with the loss 
adjuster who told them  not to use the sockets and arranged an electrical  inspection.  
Mr and Mrs C were also concerned about the way the dangerous sockets  were  marked,  with 
a pencil cross. Again I understand their anxiety  but Im satisfied that Zurich took steps to 
make sure the electrics  were made  safe.
alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs C werent  offered temporary  accommodation at first as the claim liability had to 
be determined. They had a two night stay in a hotel but couldnt continue that stay as the 
hotel was fully booked.  They opted to stay at a relatives house  and Zurich  paid them  a 
disturbance allowance for the five days they were there.
Its difficult to balance  the need  at the start of a claim to stay in temporary accommodation 
against the likely cost of that if the claim liability is yet to be accepted. I do think  Zurich could 
have done more to assist  with this. Once  Mr and Mrs C were at a relatives house it didnt 
adequately ensure that they were happy  with the situation.
mould/bed removal
Mr and Mrs C were concerned about  some  mould  growth particularly for their daughters 
health, so opted to clean  this themselves. Zurich says the contractors would have done that 
in due course but paid Mr and Mrs C £80 as a gesture  of goodwill. I think that was 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN97232523Similarly Mr C opted to remove the high sleeper bed himself.  Zurich said its removal  wasnt  
necessary for the drying and would have been  carried out later by the contractors. It paid a 
further £80 which I think was appropriate.
compensation
A disturbance allowance is commonly paid when the consumer is out of their home  or in 
their home with a lack of facilities like cooking.  Its intention is to pay for extra  expenses  
which might  have been incurred in having  to buy for example more expensive meals.  It 
comes under  the alternative accommodation cover in the policy. Its usually paid at a daily 
rate and saves the consumer having to produce  receipts. I think  the allowance paid while  
they were living  a at relative comes under this category.
The £1,110 in recognition of sleeping arrangements for their daughter  seems  to me to be 
compensation for inconvenience rather than to pay extra expenses. Zurich describes this as 
a gesture of goodwill.
As well as the £160 paid for dismantling the bed/cleaning the mould Zurich has paid a further  
£700 (two excesses  waived) and £150 for trouble and upset. I think the waived excesses 
have to be taken  as further compensation for the issues Ive identified. 
This decision only takes into account  matters  up until 30 November 2018, the date of 
Zurichs final response letter. Any issues that have arisen after that are the subject of a 
separate complaint. So whilst I appreciate  that a further £200 on top of the payments already 
made is not very much,  I have to consider whether itd be fair to make Zurich  pay more.  And 
taking into account  awards we have made  in similar cases I think the amount already paid is 
fair and reasonable  I dont intend  to require it to pay any more. 
As neither party has made any further  comments, my provisional findings as set out above 
are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 October  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9723252