K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  on behalf of Company A that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  wont  
refund unauthorised payments from the companys account totalling  £181,397.10. Mrs L 
says that Santanders system for amending  existing  payees was flawed, and contributed to 
what happened. Shes also unhappy that Santander  didnt identify the payments as unusual 
activity for Company  As account, and stop them. As Santander has been able to recover 
£63,479.28, the disputed  amount  outstanding  is £117,917.82.
background
In December 2016 Mrs L, who is the director of Company A, was the victim of a scam. It is 
not in dispute that what happened was an act of fraud. So I have used the term fraudster 
throughout to refer to the third party involved.
Based on the submissions made  by both parties I understand the scam occurred as follows:
On 20 December 2016 Mrs L received a phone call to her landline from a fraudster  posing  
as a member of staff from her internet and telephone service  provider,  BT. Mrs L has said 
that only her parents and BT call her on her landline, and shed had several conversations 
with BT staff over the preceding year due to internet connectivity issues. So, a call from BT 
staff on the landline didnt seem out of the ordinary to her. Shes explained  that the fraudster 
had her personal details and account number, and sounded like he was calling from a call 
centre as she could  hear other conversations  in the background. He also knew that she was 
a Santander customer. As Mrs L pays her BT bill from her Santander account, shes said this 
added to his credibility.
Mrs L says the fraudster told her: that her computer had been hacked from an IP address 
in California; that her IP address had been  registered in California; and that someone had 
been using her BT account  details. She was told that this scam had spread from 
customers of another telecoms provider who had recently been in the news  because of a 
reported data breach,  and that BT needed  to put a security system  on customers  computers  
to prevent fraud.  Mrs L has said, she was conned  into believing  that there was a major  
hacking incident and that [her] computer was compromised and that [Company  As] 
Santander account was accessible to hackers.
According to Mrs L, the fraudster directed  her to download BT Team Viewer so that he 
could remotely access her computer.  She did this by visiting  a webpage with what  appeared 
to be a BT logo, and typing in some  letters she was given by the fraudster. Shes said, I 
understood that this was the BT portal  that enables the company to talk to customers and 
give them  access to your BT account  and help make  necessary changes  I was advised  
that this would enable the security team to embed some security software into my Santander 
account to avoid it being hacked into.
She was then directed to view her computer properties. Shes  described  being shown a 
screen of coding  listing attempted  logins  and errors.  The fraudster told her that this was 
evidence showing [her] PC had been compromised and this would adversely affect the 
safety of [Company As] Santander account. Shes  said she was told her money was at risk 
and BT would need to put security on her computer.  During the call Mrs L was persuaded to 
log in to her online shopping accounts,  and her online banking. The fraudster then told her to 
expect some text messages from Santander  containing codes that she would need  to type 
into her computer in order  to get the security software.
Ref: DRN95466292As the text messages  came through to her mobile  phone Mrs L did as she was told by the 
fraudster and typed  the codes into her computer. Shes described the screen  she entered 
the codes into as a black  screen that came up on the front of the team viewer page   The 
person on the phone said that they were accessing  the security part of the Santander page 
and this is where I had to put the codes in  It looked like some  sort of security  system. 
Shes said the screen said something  like activating security.
In fact, these text messages didnt have anything  to do with downloading  or installing 
security software. They were One Time Passcodes (OTPs) generated by Santander, and 
sent automatically to Mrs Ls mobile phone, each time the fraudster amended an existing 
payee mandate on Company As account. Throughout  the afternoon of 20 December 2016 
Mrs L received and entered seven OTPs into her computer. The fraudster  changed the sort 
codes and account details on seven existing  payee  mandates, and made 16 payment 
transfers to the newly amended payees.
On 21 December 2016, the fraudster  called Mrs L again and convinced her that the same 
steps as shed taken the day before were necessary to ensure her computers security. 
Mrs L received and entered nine OTPs into her computer. The fraudster  changed the sort 
codes and account details on nine existing  payee  mandates, and made 17 payment 
transfers to the newly amended payees.
The OTPs came through to Mrs Ls mobile  phone in the following text message:
Please  enter the following one time passcode to verify your online transaction:  OTPXXX.
Between 11:29 on 20 December and 15:39 on 21 December, the fraudster made 32 four 
figure payments, and one three figure  payment, to newly amended payees.  The payments 
out of Company As account totalled £181,397.10.
Mrs L says she felt no threat during or after her conversations with the fraudster, and left for 
holiday early on 22 December 2016  without concern. Mrs L has said,  I genuinely believed  
that BT were helping me resolve a potential  security issue which may have impacted on my 
account whilst I was away and I totally trusted  that they were doing something  to protect my 
Santander account.
Mrs L returned from holiday  on 29 December  2016  and logged  into online banking.  When  
she saw the significantly  reduced balance of Company As account, she contacted  
Santander. Ive listened to a recording of that call. Mrs L is understandably extremely 
distressed and tearful during the call. She immediately says she thought it was BT helping  
her, they told her shed been  hacked,  and theyd talked her through  the process.  During  
the call she confirms that the fraudster took control  of her computer via BT server  team  
viewer.
The following  day, 30 December  2016, Santanders fraud team called Mrs L and asked her 
to talk through what happened on 20 and 21 December. She said it was difficult to 
remember exactly what happened because of the time that had passed, but she broadly 
described the events  Ive summarised above, and read out one of the OTP text messages 
shed received on 21 December. She also made  it clear she was unhappy nobody had 
questioned the activity  on Company As account,  and called her.
Ref: DRN95466293Santander declined  Mrs Ls fraud  claim. In response  to her complaint about  that decision it 
wrote to her on 24 January 2017  explaining  that itd declined her claim because:
shed logged in to online banking while the fraudster had access  to her computer;
shed divulged OTPs which the fraudster used to amend existing payees on 
Company As account;
it displays specific warnings about  remote access fraud  on its online banking  login 
screen; and
it had warnings on the login screen  not to divulge  OTPs to anyone.
Santander also said it had no reason  to question the authenticity  of the payments because 
Mrs Ls usual IP address,  computer and correct mobile phone were  used for the 
transactions. It said its not unusual for high volumes of transactions to occur on business 
accounts on the same day.
In April 2017 Santander changed  its process so that account holders can no longer  amend 
an existing payee  (effectively making a new payee) and start making payments to the newly 
amended payee.  Instead, customers have to set up a new payee, and that prompts  a text 
message (with OTP) which details the value of the first payment to that new payee.
Company As complaint  to us
Mrs L complained to us, on behalf of Company A. She said:
shed been  manipulated into believing  that her Santander  business  account was at 
risk of fraud  and [BT] would install security into the system;
shed shared OTPs which had facilitated  the fraudsters amendment  of payees, but 
she did not authorise any payments from [Company As] account;
Santanders system for amending  existing payees effectively allowed the fraudster  to 
set up new payees and start making  payments to them,  without a text message 
detailing the first payment  she wrote, This is clearly a blatant flaw and one the 
fraudsters exploited;
the transactions made by the fraudster were  an abnormal  amount   in the six 
months before the fraud, no online  banking  payments had been made from the 
account; and
Santander failed to notice the creation of multiple sets of new payee details, created 
through the amend  payee process, and should have alerted her to the exceptional 
high volume and value of payment transactions.
Mrs L also told us that she didnt see the specific warnings about remote  access  fraud on 
the online banking  login  screen because  she didnt login  in full screen mode. Shes  said she 
opened the login page in a smaller window, and the right hand  side of the page  was not 
visible to her.
Santanders response to Company As complaint
In response to this complaint Santander made  a detailed  submission. It accepted  that Mrs L 
has been  the victim  of a particularly  malicious  crime, and said the scammer was 
unfortunately highly  successful  in socially engineering [Mrs L]. It also offered Mrs L £1,000 
for any distress and inconvenience caused  by what it described as service issues 
occurring after Mrs L reported  the fraud and made her complaint to Santander.  And it 
Ref: DRN95466294explained that £63,479.28 of the losses has been  recovered from the receiving banks and 
returned to Company As account.
Santander also made the following points:
Santander said it declined to accept liability for the payments because  albeit the 
payments were unauthorised, [Mrs L] acted with gross negligence and contrary to 
[the obligations of a payment service  user].
The login page used by Mrs L included an Important Security Alert which read:
oNever  allow a third party to connect to your computer  or remote  access. If 
you do, they can access your security  details, release malware  and steal your 
money.
oNever give out or enter  an OTP following  an instruction  from a third party 
The text messages Mrs L received containing the OTPs did not refer to installing 
software or securing the account, but an online transaction.
 An OTP referring to a payment or including a value does not mean that the scam 
will not succeed. Affected customers can be socially engineered into believing that 
the transaction value relates to some form of test payment, an erroneous payment by 
the scammer to the customer or a refund to the customer for services  it [is] 
perfectly feasible that the scam would have been  perpetrated irrespective of the 
amend payee  function at that time.
Santanders monitoring of Company  As account  reflected that it was a business  
account  it is not unusual for a business  to make a number of payments at one time 
and for balances to reduce significantly within a small timeframe.
The submission from a representative appointed by Mrs L.
To assist her with making her complaint Mrs L appointed a representative. He made the 
following points for this service to consider  in this case:
Mrs L did not create or authorise  any of the 33 disputed payments.
Mrs L did not disclose her account  details to the fraudsters   she logged  into her 
Santander account herself,  nor did she knowingly disclose any of the OTPs to the 
fraudsters  she entered them  into her computer believing  that this was what  she 
needed to do in response to the OTP messages.
If Santanders process had been  such that the fraudster had to create  new payees 
(i.e. if the amend payee function  hadnt been available) the text message containing 
the OTP would  have specified a payment amount   if Mrs L had received a message 
like that the fraud could not have  happened in the way that it did.
Gross Negligence  must be considered in relation to the specific  circumstances of the 
matter under investigation; and criminal case law suggests the term is reserved for 
conduct that falls so far below the standard to be expected of a reasonable person 
that it is something truly exceptionally bad.
Santanders account monitoring allowed this level of activity  without  raising any 
concern regarding possible fraudulent activity.
Ref: DRN95466295my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2018. In that decision I acknowledged that 
when considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
I remain of the view that these considerations are the relevant  ones. I set them  out below:
relevant considerations
Santander is a Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  regulated  firm, and was carrying out 
regulated activities. As such the FCAs overarching Principles for Businesses apply including  
the requirement to pay due regard to a customers interest and treat them fairly (Principle  6).
The transactions from Company As account  were made in December 2016. So the relevant 
legislation is that set out in the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009)1. I think  the 
following sections of PSR 2009 are of particular relevance here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
1 The Payment Services Regulations 2009 were replaced in January  2018,  which resulted  in some 
regulations now carrying different numbers. All references in this decision  to the Payment Services 
Regulations mean  the 2009 regulations.
Ref: DRN95466296(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transaction
62.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 doesnt elaborate on what constitutes  consent beyond saying that it must be 
given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer  and its 
payment service provider. The payment  services directive itself (which  the PSR 2009 
implement) doesnt explain what consent means  here, but says In the absence  of such 
consent, a payment transaction shall be considered  to be unauthorised. The FCAs 2013  
guidance on the PSR 2009  also said nothing further about what consent means.
So I think its fair, when  considering whether  consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen.
Ref: DRN95466297gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, theyre of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care, but as I have 
described above gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether Mrs Ls actions fell so far below the 
standard of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say she failed with gross negligence 
to keep her personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions  of 
the account.
the terms and conditions of Company As account
The following  extracts  from the Business Banking Terms & Conditions  and Important 
Information applicable to Company As current account from 1 November 2016 are also 
relevant to this case. These terms and conditions broadly reflect  the provisions contained in 
the PSR 2009.
Ref: DRN954662985.2 Remote access  to your Account  General
5.2.2 Whenever you use Online Banking, telephone or other  remote  access  channels  to 
access your Account, the use of your Personal Security  Details  authorises us to provide the 
service you requested and we will treat your use of your Personal Security  Details as your 
consent to conduct any payment instructions you give using  Online Banking,  telephone or 
other remote access channel.
5.8 Ensuring your security and privacy when operating your Account by telephone,  
fax or internet
5.8.4 The care of your chequebooks, Cards and Personal Security Details  is essential to 
help prevent fraud and protect your Account and to ensure this you must follow the 
safeguards set out in Condition 5.10 to 5.15 (inclusive) in Section A.
5.10 Safeguards for your  Cards,  Personal  Security Details and PINs
5.10.3 Always take reasonable  steps to keep your Cards. PIN and Personal Security  Details  
safe 
5.10.7 You must not disclose  your Personal  Security Details  or PIN to anyone  else, not even 
a member of Santander staff.
5.13 Safeguards for instructions by e-banking
5.13.1 Only enter your Personal Security Details where you are requested  to do so by our 
online service. NEVER  SEND THEM FROM YOUR PC IN ANY OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES.
5.13.2 YOU  MUST NOT GIVE YOUR PERSONAL SECURITY DETAILS TO ANYONE 
OUTSIDE SANTANDER.
5.16 Your liability for misuse of your Card, chequebook, PIN or Personal  Security 
Details
5.16.2 Where your Card, PIN, or any of your Personal Security  Details  are used without your 
authority by someone else  then we may only debit up to £50 from your Account. 
However, you will be responsible for the full amount of the transaction  if any of the 
circumstances in Condition 5.16.3 in Section A apply.
5.16.3 The Account  Holder will be liable for all transactions and/or any fees or interest 
incurred on the Account  as a result of any of those transactions if: 
c) an Authorised Person deliberately or with gross  negligence disclosed the PIN or Personal 
Security Details to someone  else; 
f) after becoming aware, the Account Holder delayed unreasonably in notifying us that the 
transaction was unauthorised; 
In each case, we will have to show that the Authorised Person acted  deliberately  or with 
gross negligence or that the Account Holder  failed to notify us as required.
Ref: DRN9546629911 Personal Security  Details and protecting  your  account
11.7  you must: 
c) always  take reasonable steps to keep your cards  safe and your PIN, Personal Security  
Details and selected  personal information secret; 
f) not disclose your PIN or Personal  Security Details to anyone else, not even a member of 
Santander staff; 
h) only enter  your Personal Security Details where you are requested  to do so by an Online 
Banking screen: 
ii) Our fraud detection  systems highlight unusual spending patterns. We may call you if 
unusual transactions  appear on your account 
The following  extracts  from Santanders Online Banking Service  Terms  & Conditions 
(effective 2nd April 2014 - 12 January 2018) are also relevant:
11.1. The One Time Passcode
11.1.1 The One Time Passcode is an added security function integral  to Your  use of the 
Services 
11.1.3 You will be sent a text message  containing  an 8 character One Time Passcode to the 
mobile phone number registered  with Us for use of the One Time Passcode function. This 
One Time Passcode and associated information contained in the text will allow  You to verify  
and complete certain transactions when using a particular Service in conjunction with Your  
Security Details.
11.1.6 Whenever  you use the One Time Passcode functions You must take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent anyone else from accessing Your confidential information including 
the One Time Passcode(s) that will be sent to You. You must never disclose your One Time 
Passcode verbally to any individual even if they claim to be Our employees or agents or the 
Police.
11.1.7 We will only ever send You a One Time Passcode when You have requested specific 
transactions or changes to Your Account(s)  whilst  using the Services or We need to verify 
Your identity.
11.3 You must:- 
i) be satisfied that no other person can see, overhear or copy  Your Security Details  and 
never access a Service from any computer, mobile phone  or device connected  to a public 
internet wi-fi network or access  point  such as an internet caf;  
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision,  in summary, I made 
the following  findings:
I said that there were  three key questions  relevant to my consideration about what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
Ref: DRN9546629101.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Company A?
2.If they werent, can Santander  demonstrate  that Mrs L acted with gross  
negligence  particularly taking into account the terms and conditions  of the 
relationship with Santander and the obligations set out in Regulation  57 of the 
PSR 2009? and;
3.Did either Santanders  amend payee system or its account  monitoring 
contribute to Company As loss?
I found it most likely,  that Company As security details were obtained by a fraudster, 
and the payments made to payees unknown to Company A without its knowledge or 
permission. In these  circumstances, I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to say 
that Company  A authorised the transactions.
I said Mrs L was under an obligation  not to share information that would enable 
someone to access Company As account  and make payments. But I found  it likely 
she disclosed at least some personal security details by logging in to online banking 
whilst a third party  had remote  access to her computer. I also said Mrs L entered the 
OTPs she received into a screen that was not an Online  Banking screen, and 
seems to have been aware that another  person  (the fraudster)  could see what she 
was entering.
I acknowledged that scams such as the one experienced by Mrs L are very 
sophisticated. Mrs L did what  she did having been  so successfully socially 
engineered that she felt no threat  from the fraudster,  and had no appreciation that 
she was exposing herself, or Company  As account, to any risk.
In the circumstances, I found Mrs L was entitled to think  that the person she was 
speaking with was calling from her telecoms provider. And I thought  many  
reasonable people in this scenario would be similarly satisfied that they were talking 
with BT staff.
Once the fraudster  had successfully convinced Mrs L that he was a genuine  BT staff 
member, what  she did next had to be viewed in the context that she thought she was 
speaking with someone she could trust who had technical expertise.
I considered that a reasonable  Santander  customer in Mrs Ls position  might well 
have taken the same steps Mrs L did in entering  the details that the fraudster 
convinced her to. This would not have been an obvious risk to a reasonable person 
in Mrs Ls position; I thought  the reasonable person might also have believed the 
fraudsters story  and that these  steps  were  necessary.
I said the wording of the text message was sufficiently vague  referring  as it did to a 
transaction  that it wouldnt have broken the fraudsters spell  for many people.
I was satisfied that Mrs L was unlikely to have seen and read the Important  Security  
Alert warning when she logged in on 20 and 21 December  2016. I thought  it either 
wasnt visible to her in the smaller window she was using or it just didnt catch her 
attention whilst she was in the midst of reacting to what  she thought  was a hacking 
incident.  And I couldnt say that failing to read the warning in these circumstances 
amounted to conduct falling far below  the standard of a reasonable person.
Ref: DRN954662911I said its reasonable for Santander  to expect  that account  holders, including  Mrs L, 
will engage with its efforts to raise  awareness  of fraud  and scams.  But not reading 
this particular warning  when she was under the influence of a sophisticated scam 
does not, in my view,  mean Mrs L did something  no reasonable person in the 
circumstances would  do.
Overall, I didnt  think Mrs Ls actions amounted to gross negligence. So, I concluded  
it would  be fair and reasonable for Santander  to refund Company A.
With regard to Santanders amend payee  system I agreed with Mrs L and her 
representative that a process  which sends a customer a text message detailing a 
payment value and payee is likely  to give a fraudster more  of a problem  than one that 
is vague or refers  to amendments  only. But I also agreed with what  Santander said 
about this. If a fraudster anticipates that the customer will receive a text message  
detailing a payment  value  and payee, customers can be socially engineered into 
believing that the payment value is a test payment,  or a payment that needs to be 
stopped, or some  sort of refund that the customer is due. Bearing this in mind I 
couldnt agree that a different system which forced the fraudster to create new 
payees would,  more likely  than not, have  changed what happened  in this case.  And 
ultimately as it is only hypothetical  to think  about  what might have happened  in 
different circumstances, I decided this issue had no material impact  on my 
determination of this complaint.
With regard to Santanders account  monitoring,  I said Santander has discretion to 
establish transaction monitoring procedures  that observe the legislative and 
regulatory requirements placed upon it. And on 20 and 21 December 2016, there 
was nothing about the way Company As account  was logged in to that shouldve 
alerted Santander  to what was going  on.
However, I said that what happened on Company  As account was unprecedented 
for the account.  And it wasnt just the volume and value of the transactions (32 four 
figure payments  and 1 three figure  payment) that was unusual  for the account. The 
33 payments were preceded by someone changing the sort codes and account 
numbers on 16 existing payee mandates.
I thought Mrs Ls expectation  that the activity  of Company As account shouldve  
been noticed was entirely  reasonable. A call to check that everything was ok would 
not have fettered the banks obligation to make payments in accordance with its 
customers mandate. If Santander  had contacted Mrs L, she would have been put on 
notice that something was wrong and its at least arguable that this would have 
stopped the fraud  being as successful as it was.
I said that to fairly compensate Company A, Santander should:
1.Credit Company As account with the disputed amount  outstanding  (in the 
provisional decision I gave the outstanding figure  as £117,899.82, but 
Santander has since confirmed this figure  is £117,917.82),  adding  interest 
from the date of the disputed transactions to the date of settlement at the rate 
Company A would have received had the money  not been moved from the 
account by the fraudster.
Ref: DRN9546629122.And add interest  on the £63,479.28 already recovered, from the date of the 
disputed transactions  to the date it was returned  to Company A, at the rate 
Company A would have received had the money  not been moved from the 
account by the fraudster.
responses to my provisional  findings
In response to my provisional decision Santander said it had nothing  further  to add and 
agreed to my proposed remedy. It also clarified  that the disputed  amount outstanding is 
£117,917.82 (not £117,899.82 as I had stated in my provisional decision).
Mrs Ls representative said that they accepted the overall approach and outcome but 
added:
Santander bears a substantial responsibility for this fraud  because  the amend 
payee system prior to April 2017  meant it was possible  to create a new payee  
through the amend  payee process, and bypass a vital part of the OTP authorisation 
process.
The transactions were  unusual for the account and should have been picked up. If 
Santander had had effective account  monitoring systems  This would have 
stopped the fraud  after the first two or three  payments.
In light of these  clear failings Mrs L should  be awarded a significantly higher  rate of 
interest than she would have received had the money not been moved from the 
account. Whilst Mrs L had no stated plans  for these funds, she lost the opportunity  
of investing them  and has had to live for nearly two years  not knowing if she would 
ever recover  her money.
Mrs L added  that she had not received the £1,000 Santander  had previously offered for any 
distress and inconvenience caused  by service issues.  Santander  confirmed that it was 
still willing  to pay this sum.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which I have  
summarised above.
With regard to Mrs Ls representatives comments about Santanders amend payee process 
I find I still cant agree that a different system  which forced the fraudster to create  new 
payees wouldve  necessarily changed what happened in this case.  I think  its entirely  
possible that the fraudster might  still have convinced Mrs L, in the circumstances, to share 
the OTPs. And ultimately  I have to think about the individual  complaint before me and whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances as they were,  not in the circumstances as they 
might have been. Ive already concluded  that Company A should be reimbursed what  it lost 
in the scam, and that is, in my view, the fair and reasonable outcome for this case.
On the matter of Santanders account monitoring, Mrs Ls representative has reiterated  that 
the disputed payments should have been  picked up. I dont consider its necessary for me to 
say anything more  about this than I said in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that 
Ref: DRN954662913Mrs Ls expectation that the activity of Company As account  shouldve  been noticed was 
entirely reasonable; the payments were unusual for the account.
Ive concluded  that the payments taken from Company As account were not authorised and 
that Santander should fairly and reasonably have refunded the payments when Mrs L 
contacted it about them  on Company As behalf  on 29 December 2016.
I must now consider what is fair compensation for the loss and damage suffered by 
Company A as a consequence  of that, including what steps Santander should take to 
compensate Company A for not having the money  available to use.
In my provisional decision I said that I was minded to tell Santander to pay Company A the 
interest it would  have received if the stolen  money had remained in the account. That was 
because I thought it was more likely than not that the money would have remained  in the 
account attracting  interest at the account  rate had it not been stolen. In reaching that view I 
was mindful that the money  had been  in the account for some time prior to the fraud,  that 
around £41,000 was retrieved and returned  to the account not long after the fraud,  and that 
neither Mrs L, on behalf of Company  A, nor her representative, had provided me with 
anything to suggest she had any plans for this money or that Company A had to borrow  
money to cover the losses here.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs Ls representative said Company A should 
receive a significantly  higher  rate of interest than account rate. He pointed out that in some 
cases this service awards interest  at 8% simple  to compensate consumers and small 
businesses for being deprived of money.
I have considered whether that would  be appropriate  in this complaint but I am not 
persuaded that it is. My colleagues  and I tend to award interest at that rate when it is not 
possible to know exactly what impact being  deprived of the money had on the consumer or 
small business, or how they would have used the money had it remained available to them.  
But in this case, I am satisfied that it would  be fair to award  interest at a different rate to 
reflect the losses I think its more  likely  than not Company A actually suffered.
Ive seen statements  for the Santander account  covering  a year before the fraud. And 11 
months-worth of statements from the account  (held with another  bank) that Company  A used 
from February 2017 onwards. The activity on both sets of statements is very similar and 
suggests to me that, despite the large loss of capital to Company A, it was able to continue  
as it had been, meeting all its usual expenses including  Mrs Ls salary.  With that in mind, 
and with no evidence  that Company A had plans for or would have moved the money  from 
the account, I am satisfied that the account interest  rate is fair and reasonable here.
Finally, I appreciate what Mrs Ls representative has said about  the impact  on her of not 
knowing if she would ever recover her money. However, I have to remember  that it was 
Company A that suffered the loss here,  a separate legal  entity,  and I cant  compensate  
Mrs L, the director of Company A, personally. In these circumstances I think that the offer 
made by Santander  of £1,000 for inconvenience  caused to its customer, Company A, is fair.
For the reasons  given,  I think it is fair and reasonable  for Santander to refund the amount 
stolen from Company As account.
Ref: DRN954662914I direct  Santander to:
1.Credit Company As account with £117,917.82.
2.Add interest on the amount  at 1. from the date of the disputed  transactions to the 
date of settlement  at the rate Company A would have received had the money  not 
been moved from the account by the fraudster.
3.And, if Santander hasnt already, add interest on the £63,479.28  already returned 
from the date of the disputed transactions to the date it was returned to Company A, 
at the rate Company  A would have  received  had the money not been moved from the 
account by the fraudster.
4.Pay Company  A £1,000 in accordance with its previous offer.
my final decision
As set out above I uphold Company As complaint  against Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9546629