K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr P says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make  Mr P aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding it 
to his card. HSBC  has provided a copy of the script it expected  its representatives to follow 
at the time it sold the policy to Mr P. The script directed the representative to present the 
policy as optional and gain consent  before adding it to the card.  I cant be certain of how 
closely the representative followed the script in Mr Ps case  but I think it most likely 
represents what was discussed during the call. So I think HSBC made it clear that Mr P 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he may not remember this.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr P has told us he was self-employed when he took out the PPI. But the terms and 
conditions of the policy didnt make it any more  difficult for self-employed  people  to make a 
claim. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, he wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN98830572Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9883057