K822xComplaint 
Mrs C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs C took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs C. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs C about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £750  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because no other  insurer  
will cover pre-existing  conditions, so she has no choice but to keep paying  the increasing  
premiums if she wants her pet to be covered. The offer RSA has made doesnt cover  past or 
future premium increases, and only just covers  the cost of the one claim that has been made  
under the policy.  
Mrs C has also explained that had she known her complaint would take so long to be 
resolved, she wouldnt  have renewed the policy and would instead have cancelled it. Taking 
this into consideration  Mrs C would like RSA to increase  its offer and be forced to give 
clearer information about the policy from the outset.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and as we are not the regulator,  I dont have the power to tell a business what  its insurance 
should cost, what  information it should  provide  when  it sells insurance, or how it should sell 
its policies. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Cs policy is too high, she should have 
been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Mrs Cs premium  has seen significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. 
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs C a significant amount of distress as, shes not 
able to find equivalent cover elsewhere that will cover pre-existing medical conditions. And I 
Ref: DRN99252572recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years may make the policy 
unaffordable.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs C the information she needed  to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Mrs C hadnt  taken  a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for her pets  treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover,  where she would 
have found herself  in a situation where  her pets conditions were no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mrs C having the same level of cover  for ongoing conditions at a fixed  or capped  
premium  this type of policy  isnt generally  available. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her 
in this position. 
I appreciate Mrs Cs complaint has taken  some time to be investigated by our service but I 
am unable  to say RSA should provide further compensation because of this delay. The 
length of time taken  for us to consider Mrs Cs complaint  was outside of RSAs  control.
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mrs C experienced. It 
is a significant  award  and I think it fairly  compensates Mrs C for the trouble and upset shes  
been caused.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs C £750  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9925257