K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited  trading  as Egg  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Canada Square Operations  Limited  as Egg.
background
The policy was added  to Mr Ss at the same time as taking out a credit card online in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Egg shouldve  made Mr S aware  he had a choice about buying  the PPI. Mr S says he wasnt  
aware PPI had been added to his account.  It has explained the sales process and given us 
screenshots of how the PPI wouldve been  shown to Mr S at the time of the sale.  I have no 
reason to think Mr S wouldve seen  something different. 
Ive looked carefully  at these screenshots and I can see Mr S wouldve been given a choice 
to select yes or no to buy the policy. The process wouldve required an option  to be 
selected before an applicant  couldve moved on to the next section. And the fact the PPI was 
added to Mr Ss account makes me think its more  likely he selected the yes option.
So I think Egg made Mr S aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it  although I can understand why he doesnt remember  this now. 
The policy was taken  out over the internet, without any apparent  involvement from an Egg 
representative so I dont think it recommended the PPI to Mr S. This means  Egg didnt have 
to check it was suitable for him. But it shouldve made sure it gave Mr S enough  information  
to allow  him to choose whether the PPI was right for him or not.
Looking at the screenshots, I think the information  Egg gave Mr S about the costs, benefits 
and main limitations of the policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. So Ive got to consider 
whether better information about  the policy wouldve put Mr S off taking  it out.
I dont think it would  have.  Mr S doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover  such  as any existing health conditions  or any unusual  working 
patterns.
Mr S says he wouldve  have received sick pay from his employer.  But the policy  wouldve 
paid out alongside his employee benefits  as well as covering his repayments if he was made 
unemployed. Mr S says he had savings he couldve used, but having the PPI wouldve 
Ref: DRN91246762meant these saving couldve been used  for other things. So I think Mr S would have had a 
need for the policy.   
Taking everything into account,  even if Mr S had been given  clear  information, I still think  he 
wouldve bought  the policy. Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back  all the cost of the 
PPI to Mr S.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr S about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr S feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Hes put time and effort  
into his complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all the points  hes raised. But for the 
reasons explained above, these points dont change  my decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9124676