K820x#14complaint
Miss B and her representative are unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance  Limited has 
recorded an incident as a fault claim on her motor  insurance record.
background
Miss B was involved in an accident  while stationary at traffic lights. She provided the details 
of the other vehicles  registration to Aviva  when she made a claim on her motor insurance  
policy. But it found the plates had been cloned  and it cannot  trace the other  driver.  As a 
result Aviva hasnt recovered its outlay  and has recorded the claim as a fault one on her 
record. Shes unhappy about  this, not least as its resulted in her losing her no claim discount 
(NCD) which was one month  away from being  for three years. Miss B says this is unfair  as 
she didnt do anything  wrong. And she wants  her NCD reinstated.  
Aviva said in its final response that although  it appreciates that the circumstances  of the 
incident suggest Miss B wasnt at fault, it hasnt been able to recover  its outlay due to the 
third party being  untraced.  And it cannot  allow the NCD in this circumstance.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Any claim on a motor  insurance policy where the insurer  is unable to recover its costs 
from a third party will be recorded as a fault one even if its policy  holder isnt 
responsible for the accident. The claim is only recorded as non fault if an insurer 
recovers all of its costs of dealing  with the claim. 
Here the other driver couldnt be traced  and Aviva hasnt been able to recover its 
costs of repairing  Miss Bs car. This means the claim must be recorded  as a fault 
claim.
Miss B says this is unfair but an insurer has a duty to accurately record claim 
information on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
Miss Bs policy documents make clear  that unless Aviva  is able to recover  all sums 
its paid on a claim it will reduce her NCD and this is even if the accident wasnt her 
fault. The policy also sets out the extent of the reduction of the NCD.
Aviva  hasnt done anything wrong  in its handling or recording of the claim.
Miss B remains unhappy. She says the circumstances of the accident are exceptional  and 
things should  be reviewed. It isnt right she suffers for something that was beyond her 
control. Her premiums will now increase and this will have a big effect on her. Its unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how frustrating it is for Miss B to see Aviva recording this claim as a fault one 
when she says she wasnt responsible for the accident. But by recording it as a fault claim 
Aviva isnt saying that she was liable or responsible for what  happened.  Its in fact reflecting 
that it hasnt, for whatever  reason, been able to recover all its outlay on the claim from the 
third party. 
Ref: DRN96994802Thats correct as here Aviva hasnt  recovered  the costs  of repairing Miss Bs car because  it 
couldnt trace the other driver who was using  a vehicle with cloned plates. As a result I think  
Aviva has properly recorded the claim  on CUE  as a fault one.
I also think Aviva has acted in line with the policy terms  and conditions  by doing so and also 
by reducing Miss Bs NCD as a result, as the policy sets out what  will happen to her NCD if a 
claim is recorded.
Consequently although I understand Miss B and her representatives strength of feeling  and 
frustration, I dont think Aviva has done  anything wrong.  And, although I sympathise with the 
unfortunate situation Miss B has through no fault of her own found herself in, I cannot fairly 
or reasonably require  Aviva to amend her record and record this claim as a non fault one as 
theyd like.
Overall I dont see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9699480