K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company cancelled his motor insurance and 
is trying  to recover the costs of two claims from him.
background
Mr S took out motor  insurance underwritten by Southern Rock.  In his application, he said he 
was the owner  and registered keeper of the car. 
In mid-2017, he had two accidents  in which he said his car was hit by a third party. Southern  
Rock paid out the first claim, and gave him a cash settlement so he could  complete  repairs  
for the car himself. In respect of the second claim, it asked him for some  more information.
In responding  to Southern  Rocks enquiries,  Mr S said that he wasnt in fact the registered  
keeper of the car. It was registered in his partners name, not his. That was correct,  and she 
wasnt a policy holder or named driver on the policy.
Southern Rock voided Mr Ss insurance.  It said that if it had known from the start that Mr S 
was insuring someone elses car rather than his own, it would never have insured him. It 
said it would  pursue Mr S for the costs it had paid out in respect of the two claims.
Mr S complained. He said the car was his. Hed registered it in his partners  name to avoid it 
being seized by bailiffs who were pursuing him. He said the accidents werent his fault and it 
wasnt fair that Southern Rock were pursuing him. Our investigator  didnt  recommend  
upholding the complaint,  so Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive also taken into account 
the relevant law about representations made when taking out insurance.
When he took out the policy online, Mr S was asked if he was the owner  and registered  
keeper of the car. He said he was. I think the question he was asked was clear. And the 
answer he gave was clear  too  but it wasnt correct. The registered keeper was in fact his 
partner. Mr S knew that was the case at the time he answered the question, because hes 
explained why the car was registered to her. I think he didnt take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.  
Southern Rock hasnt said whether it considers Mr S to have made  a careless  
misrepresentation  or a reckless  or deliberate one. But it has shown that it wouldnt have 
offered him insurance if it had known he wasnt the registered keeper of the car. The law 
says that an insurers  entitled to cancel  a policy as if it never existed (void it) if it can show  it 
wouldnt have offered insurance if it had known the true facts  rather than the 
misrepresentation. In all the circumstances, I think Southern Rock  acted fairly  in voiding 
Mr Ss policy.
When a policys voided, its cancelled so that it never existed. That means its as if Mr S 
never had the insurance at all. That means  hes not covered for the claims he made in 
respect of the accidents  and so Southern  Rock  can recover from him the cash settlement it 
paid. And as Southern Rock is still required to pay out to the third party, the terms of the 
Ref: DRN98064842policy allow  it to recover those costs  from Mr S as well. Ive looked at how it handled the two 
claims and I think  it did so fairly  based  on the evidence it had available.
Southern Rock hasnt refunded the premiums Mr S paid. But its said it will offset them  
against the amount its trying to recover from Mr S. And its willing  to discuss  an affordable  
repayment plan with him. I dont think it fairly  needs  to do anything  more than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9806484