K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms H say they agreed to transfer their investments from an offshore to an onshore 
bond to benefit from a full discretionary service on the condition  that theyd only pay fees if 
the returns were above an agreed  level. But despite not achieving these returns, Sanlam 
Investments UK Limited charged them over £12,500. 
background
In their initial complaint  Mr L and Ms H complained more generally about the high fees and 
poor performance of their investments but elaborated  on these points in subsequent 
correspondence, arguing they had been  wrongly charged various fees.
Sanlam rejected their complaint, saying:
Since becoming Mr L and Ms Hs advisor  in 2012 the fee structure had been 
changed on several occasions,  with a split between an advice fee and a 
management fee which was only charged if certain performance targets were met
In 2016, for example, this target  was not met and so no performance fee was 
charged
In 2017 Mr L and Ms H chose  to surrender their bond and reinvest the money  
onshore; it charged £8,000 (1% of their investment) for this advice; it always charged 
for Replacement  advice  and the figure is lower than its fee of 2.1% for new advice
This fee was solely for the initial  advice  and not for portfolio management (PM),  for 
which a separate  fee of 0.75% a year applied
The advice report set out the reasons for this switch, which  included  greater tax 
efficiency and the ability to buy direct  equities
It provided an ongoing service via annual meetings, advice etc.
The new investment (DFM) did not meet the agreed targets so it did not charge  the 
normal management fee
It offered  two discrete  advisors as promised  one in relation to portfolio management 
and one for overall investment advice (their advisor); the latter made 
recommendations which Mr L and Ms H chose not to pursue
It offered  £100 in lieu of the time taken to look into their complaint
An adjudicator at this service  said that investment performance could not be guaranteed and 
hed seen no evidence  that Sanlam had made  any guarantees.  He also felt there  was no 
evidence of incorrect charging of fees.
Mr L and Ms H disagreed,  and said:
Their complaint solely concerned the fees which should not have  been  charged
They agreed to move the investment  onshore  on the basis that they would only be 
charged fees if certain returns  were achieved
They supplied copies of various email exchanges concerning the performance  fee 
structure, including at what point any fee would be charged
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN95448052Although Mr L and Ms Hs complaint now appears to solely concern the disputed fees, I think 
it is important to reiterate  that this service cannot in general adjudicate on whether an 
investments performance was reasonable or not i.e. whether the business in question  ought 
to have delivered a better return.  Investment returns cannot be guaranteed and under-
performance can rarely be safely attributed to a mistake or error by a business.  Our role is 
broadly limited to assessing whether a business had adhered  to the terms and conditions,  
provided clear and fair information, administered things fairly and treated a client 
appropriately.
In this case, it is clear  that Mr L and Ms H were very unhappy  with poor returns and felt the 
fees were too high for what their investments  were  delivering. But they agreed to various fee 
structures including the 2017 one which meant  the portfolio management fee was linked to 
potential returns.  But this still meant  that Sanlam was entitled to charge both the initial 1% 
advice for this switch  and its normal advisor fee, along with product charges.
I therefore dont  agree that it was not entitled  to charge any fees if the portfolio did not 
increase in value  by a certain percentage; nor do I think the fees it did charge were  incorrect. 
Nor do I think the evidence demonstrates that its advisors did not offer any ongoing 
investment advice for its annual non-performance  based advice fee.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9544805