K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about advice given by Seven Wealth Management Limited (Seven Wealth),
an appointed representative of David Stock & Company Limited (David Stock),  to transfer
her executive pension plan (EPP) to a small self administered  scheme  (SSAS).  Mrs D also
complains that part of her SSAS fund was then invested in an unregulated collective
investment scheme  (UCIS).
background
Ive considered Mrs Ds complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 11 January 
2021. Ive attached it and it forms part of this decision. 
David Stock  didnt comment further. Mrs D did. She was, and understandably  so, very 
disappointed that I hadnt upheld her complaint. She asked me to reconsider.
In summary  she said shed been exploited by Firm B (whose adviser had been  struck off). 
The allocation in high risk, leveraged and illiquid  investments was higher than the 5% Id 
referred to. She wasnt a high net worth  client. Her pension fund was around £100,000, she 
had £100,000 in the bank and a further £300,000 in an investment bond. But the mortgage 
outstanding on her home was £300,000. That level of borrowing meant  that any investment 
would have been considered risky.
After the transfer,  further money  was invested in various leveraged property  funds. Although 
that wasnt on Seven Wealths  recommendation, those investments were  only possible 
because the SSAS had been set up. And a SSAS wasnt  suitable  because the sponsoring  
employer was 50% owned  by another shareholder, a company over which  Mrs D had no 
control. 
Mrs D understood that Firm Bs advice wasnt part of this complaint but she said it showed  
how Firm B had conducted itself.  Further information ought to be available from our records  
or from FSCS as to other individuals whod been  similarly exploited.  Seven Wealths adviser 
may have  had a closer  relationship with Firm B than had been disclosed and the SSAS or 
SIPP arrangements  may have meant  that Firm B was able to exploit other  clients too. 
Mrs Ds representative also commented. He expressed similar unhappiness with my 
provisional decision. He referred  to Mrs Ds previous complaint and said that Id drawn 
similar conclusions   that Mrs D and her husband were responsible for the losses  theyd 
incurred because they were wealthy, sophisticated and speculative investors. But they 
werent significantly wealthy, particularly taking into account their outstanding mortgage. 
Their net invested assets  were about  £475,000.  Yet in 2011 wed decided that investing 
more than £300,000 in UCIS was appropriate. Theres  no evidence  to support a finding  that 
Mrs D and her husband  were sophisticated investors. Wed  failed in 2011 to understand the 
true risk the investments presented. 
Id made  a similar error in deciding Mrs Ds current complaint.  Id taken into account 
information that was provided  in the course  of the investigation into the earlier  complaint. I 
had to be fair to Mrs D and use details  that were beneficial to her and not just rely on 
information which favoured  David  Stock. In particular,  the 2011  risk assessment which 
apparently classified Mrs D as speculative. She wasnt a very or highly speculative investor. 
Yet MPPP  61 was that type of fund. Any investment in MPPP  61 would have been 
inappropriate. 
Ref: DRN98602252Mrs Ds representative said he was disappointed, having been  given an opportunity to 
review what he termed  the horrendous  decision that was made  in 2011, Id failed not only to 
identify and right the wrong but Id reinforced mistakes made first time around by finding in 
favour of the firm and to protect this services own position. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Mrs D and her representative have said in response to 
my provisional decision. I acknowledge  Mrs Ds disappointment. And Im very sorry that I 
cant offer her better  news. Ive made some further  comments below in response to the 
points she and her representative  have made. But Im still unable  to uphold  the complaint.  
Id stress again that Im only looking at what Seven Wealth did  the transfer to the SSAS 
and the investment in MPPP 61. Mrs D has referred to what happened after shed invested 
in MPPP 61  Firm B recommended that she invest in other leveraged  property funds. I 
understand the point Mrs D makes about the transfer meant that the balance  of the funds 
held in her SSAS  were  available for investment. Id agree that in recommending  a transfer 
Seven Wealth should have  had regard for the proposed underlying investment(s).  I have 
considered the transfer against  the background that Mrs D was going to invest £25,000 in 
MPPP 61. But Mrs Ds complaint about  the further investments has been dealt with. Im not 
able to revisit those  matters. I dont think its down to Seven Wealth  that some £300,000 of 
Mrs Ds money  ended up invested in UCIS. 
Mrs D has said that she wasnt a high net worth client. I said in my provisional decision that, 
based on what Id seen, Mrs D met the definition of a high net worth client. But I also said 
there were further exemptions (for example, category 2 of COB 3 Annex 5 of COB 3.11) 
which Seven  Wealth might have been  able to rely on in promoting UCIS. 
But, in any event, my decision doesnt  turn on whether Mrs D was a person to whom  UCIS 
could be promoted.  Even  if we think a complainant may not have been someone  who came 
within one of the exceptions to the provisions prohibiting the promotion  of UCIS, that doesnt 
mean wed automatically uphold the complaint. Wed go on to consider,  despite any breach 
of the restrictions, the suitability  of the particular investment recommended.
As Ive said,  Seven  Wealths  part in the matter  was confined to the transfer  to the SSAS and 
the investment  in MPPP 61. It seems  that, at more or less the same  time, Mrs D was also 
receiving advice from Firm B and investments were  being made on that firms advice.  
The timing,  and the absence of any documentary  evidence  relating to the transfer (such as a 
fact find or suitability letter) means it isnt clear  what Seven Wealth  knew about  what  was 
going on with Mrs Ds other investments. I dont quite follow what  Mrs D has said.  She says 
that by the time of the transfer shed been given advice to invest £175,000 out of just over 
£400,000. But she goes on to say that the transfer  and the investment in MPPP 61 took 
place in April 2007 by which time £300,000 had been invested in the bond.  
But, either way, I cant be sure exactly what Seven Wealth  knew about Mrs Ds other 
investments and which were being made  on the advice of Firm B. I also note that Seven 
Wealths suitability letter for the transfer  (although it hasnt been produced)  appears to have 
Ref: DRN98602253been dated 15 March 2007  which suggests  it may have  predated  advice from Firm B about 
other investments. In the circumstances I dont think its wrong to approach Mrs Ds 
complaint about  Seven  Wealth on the basis that the other investments are likely to have 
been outside Seven Wealths knowledge and control. And that the proportion of Mrs Ds 
overall wealth that Seven  Wealth understood was to be invested in UCIS was limited.   
I understand the point she makes that Seven Wealth recommended  the transfer to the SSAS 
and facilitated  it which meant the balance of her SSAS fund could be invested in the 
unsuitable funds  which Firm B recommended. But I dont think thats enough to say that 
Seven Wealth is responsible for those investments. And when a complaint about  those other  
investments has already  been made. 
Mrs D has referred  to the bigger picture.  I understand why she thinks it is relevant. But it 
wouldnt be fair for me to seek to put right wrongs which I cant properly say are Seven 
Wealths responsibility and which have been  considered elsewhere. Our records  dont 
indicate that Seven Wealths involvement with Firm B was more  widespread.   
Much of what Mrs Ds representative has said concerns our decision on the earlier 
complaint. As Ive explained,  Im unable to revisit that complaint. I dont agree that Ive drawn 
the same  (incorrect) conclusions as my colleague  did when he considered  that complaint. 
Im looking  at a different  complaint  against another firm. I havent decided  that investing  a 
total of £300,000 in UCIS was appropriate. My conclusions are based on the much narrower 
complaint about  the transfer to the SSAS  and the investment  in MPPP 61.
I agree  that Mrs D wasnt a sophisticated investor. But that doesnt of itself mean that MPPP  
61 was unsuitable  for her. An investors  portfolio  will generally include a range of 
investments so that, overall, the portfolio matches  the investors ATR. The inclusion of a very 
high risk investment  wont necessarily  make the portfolio overall unsuitable. And Im looking 
through a somewhat narrow lens and just focusing  on the £25,000  that was invested in 
MPPP 61. Based on what Ive seen and taking  that investment more or less in isolation 
(which for the reasons  Ive explained  I think I must) I dont think it was unsuitable for an 
investor in Mrs Ds circumstances.   
I note whats said about relying on information  from the earlier complaint. But I think  Im 
entitled to take it into account in so far as I consider it is relevant.  Especially  where the 
contemporaneous documentary evidence is limited. I dont think  Ive relied  on evidence in 
Seven Wealths favour and ignored  anything which might assist Mrs D. 
Im sorry  but, as Ive explained, I cant review the decision we reached in 2011. It doesnt 
matter if wed decide that case differently now. The point is that Im just looking at the 
complaint against  Seven  Wealth. I cant put right any perceived shortcomings  of the earlier  
decision now and via a complaint against  a different firm whose involvement was, on any 
basis, limited.  
My view remains that any advice Seven Wealth gave that Mrs D transfer to a SSAS and 
invest in MPPP 61 wasnt unsuitable. I note what Mrs D has said about the ownership of the 
sponsoring employer for the SSAS. But I dont think that meant the SSAS was unsuitable for 
Mrs D. Her benefits were held on trust, subject to the SSAS rules and as agreed  between  
her and the sponsoring employer. I think the SSAS,  whose terms were  the same  as the 
EPP, wasnt  unsuitable for Mrs D. And I dont  think investing £25,000 of Mrs Ds SSAS  fund 
in MPPP 61 was necessarily unsuitable.  
Ref: DRN98602254I have considerable  sympathy for Mrs D. Shes lost substantial sums but, for the reasons set 
out in this decision and my attached  provisional decision, Im unable  to uphold her complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 27 February  2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98602255PROVISIONAL DECISION dated  11 January 2021
complaint
Mrs D complains about advice given by Seven Wealth Management Limited (Seven Wealth), an 
appointed representative of David Stock  & Company Limited (David Stock), to transfer her executive 
pension plan (EPP) to a small self administered  scheme (SSAS). Mrs D also complains that part of 
her SSAS  fund was then invested in an unregulated  collective  investment scheme  (UCIS). 
background
Exactly what  happened and Seven Wealths involvement  isnt agreed.  Ive seen a suitability report  
prepared by Seven Wealth on 18 November  2006 recommending that Mrs D transfer her EPP to a 
self invested person pension (SIPP)  and use a discretionary fund manager  (DFM) to invest the fund.  
Mrs D says she didnt see that recommendation  and she didnt  act on it. And, as set out further below, 
Seven Wealths  adviser says the report was prepared  at the request of another  firm (who  Ill call Firm 
B) who may not have forwarded it to Mrs D.
Instead, the following year, Mrs D transferred her EPP to a SSAS. In April 2007  £110,591.57  was 
transferred from Mrs Ds EPP to the SSAS. The SSAS  administrator (the successor  of the original 
administrator) says its records show the transfer was arranged by Seven Wealth. 
£25,000 was then invested  in Merchant Place Property Partnership 61 (MPPP 61), a UCIS. Again, the 
SSAS providers records indicate that investment was arranged by Seven Wealth. 
No suitability letter in connection with the transfer of the EPP to a SSAS has been produced. And Mrs 
D says she didnt receive any communications from Seven Wealth  about  the SSAS or any 
investments to be made via the SSAS. As discussed further  below, a suitability  letter  dated  15 March 
2007 from Seven Wealth and recommending  a SSAS  has been mentioned.  But no copy  has been 
produced.  
I understand that, at about the same time as the transfer and the MPPP 61 investment,  other 
investments were made, for the SSAS  and other funds  held by Mrs D and her husband, on the advice 
of Firm B. 
Mrs D (with  her husband) made a previous complaint to this service about the investment portfolios 
recommended by Firm B and which Mrs D and her husband said exceeded  their exceeded their 
cautious attitude  to risk. 
One of my ombudsmen colleagues considered that complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint. Ive 
referred to some of what he said further below. 
Firm B later ceased  trading. Mrs D then made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS). That revealed that, according  to the SSAS providers records, the SSAS  had been 
arranged by Seven Wealth. And that Seven Wealth had also arranged  the first property investment 
made via the SSAS  MPPP  61.
Mrs D then complained  to David Stock.  As principal it is responsible for what Seven Wealth, its 
appointed representative, had done. 
jurisdiction
David Stock initially said that Mrs Ds complaint  had been made  too late and we couldnt  consider it. 
Our investigator wrote David Stock  on 27 November  2018 setting  out why he thought  we could 
consider the complaint. David Stock responded on 10 December 2018. It didnt agree  we could 
consider the complaint. The complaint was referred to one of my ombudsman colleagues. 
Ref: DRN98602256He issued his jurisdiction decision  on 24 July 2019. He set out the relevant  Dispute Resolution  (DISP) 
rules and which say we cant  consider a complaint thats been made  more  than six years after the 
event complained of, or, if later, more than three years from when the complainant  became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint.  
There was no dispute  that the event complained of  the advice in connection  with the transfer to the 
SSAS which  it is alleged Seven Wealth gave in 2007  was more than six years before Mrs D 
complained. The issue was whether she became aware (or reasonably ought  to have become  aware) 
she had cause  for complain more than three years before she complained to David Stock in June  
2018.
My colleague said that complaint about Firm B had been dealt with in 2010/2011.  But the main focus 
of that complaint were  the investments that had been  recommended  for the SSAS and Mrs Ds and 
her husbands other money, rather  than the transfer itself. My colleague concluded  that Mrs D had 
only become  aware she may have cause  for complaint  about  David Stock when  shed got the letter  
from FSCS  dated 18 October 2017 and which told her about  the involvement of David Stock  in the 
transfer and the MPPP  61 investment.  
Mrs D hadnt complained about David  Stock outside the applicable  time limits.  And, although David 
Stock had said it didnt give Mrs D any advice, it appeared that the transfer and the investment in 
MPPP 61 had both been arranged by Seven Wealth. Arranging investments was a regulated activity 
which we could look at. The ombudsman concluded that we could  consider Mrs Ds complaint about 
David Stock. 
David Stock then said it had come across a letter from Mrs D and her husband dated 4 May 2010 to 
Firm B which  showed that Mrs D was aware of Seven  Wealths involvement in the switch from an EPP 
to a SSAS. And that Firm B had in April and June 2007 provided suitability reports about investing  in 
MPPP 61. 
Mrs Ds letter included the following: 
On 15th March 2007, Seven Wealth Management Ltd wrote to Mrs D under  your [Firm  Bs] 
instruction advising her to switch from an Executive Pension Plan (EPP)  held with  to a Small Self 
Administered (SSAS)  administered by  which  was paid for by your firm. One of the benefits  listed by 
them for doing  so was the ability to invest in commercial property.
In April and June  2007  you [Firm B] provided suitability  reports  to Mrs D for investing  into Merchant 
Property Partnership 61 .
The (new) investigator considered that the letter. It was addressed to Firm B but Mrs D did refer to a 
recommendation letter  from Seven Wealth dated 15 March 2007.  But Mrs D thought  it had been sent 
on Firm Bs instruction. The investigators view was that the letter  didnt change things as Mrs D had 
believed she was just dealing with Firm B as her financial  adviser. If shed have known  Seven Wealth  
was instead acting as the adviser  on the transfer (from the EPP to the SSAS)  shed have complained 
about Seven Wealth at the same time as shed complained about  Firm B. It was only when Mrs D got 
information from FCSC that she understood the true nature of Seven Wealths involvement. The 
investigator maintained  Mrs Ds complaint had been made in time.  She went  on to consider the merits 
of the complaint. 
Mrs Ds position 
On her complaint form Mrs D said the SSAS  was inappropriate for her and that thered  been a lack of 
suitable advice  specifically  that 100% of the investments subsequently recommended  were illiquid,  
leveraged property funds. She went on to say that in 2006, following  advice from Firm B, shed lost a 
considerable sum of money  in a variety of failed  investments. And that was the subject of her earlier 
Ref: DRN98602257complaint. Shed lost almost  all the money shed invested via the SSAS. She said she wanted to be 
put back  in the position  if her pension (her EPP)  had been left as it was. 
She said that Seven Wealth/David Stock had arranged the SSAS and the first investment for her 
SSAS  MPPP 61. She said she didnt  get any terms of business, suitability  letters or risk profile 
communications from Seven  Wealth. She didnt understand and didnt  want a SSAS. She isnt, nor 
was she then,  an investor who was sufficiently  well versed  in the technical  aspects of a SSAS. And 
she had very little understanding of the investments that were subsequently  purchased by her SSAS 
and which were  unsuitable. 
Mrs Ds representative said that Mrs D had been badly let down by her original advisers  and had been 
given inappropriate advice.  Seven Wealths adviser  had never  met or spoken to Mrs D but had 
recommended transferring  a perfectly acceptable  EPP into a SSAS and had then recommended that 
Mrs D invest  further sums  into even riskier, more leveraged illiquid property funds without considering 
other asset classes. 
Mrs D wasnt  and isnt a sophisticated investor. She was keen to make her hard earned money work 
for her. But she had no idea of the risks that she was being  exposed  to. With all due respect to this 
services previous decision, it was clear  that the investments were considerably more speculative than 
was appropriate for Mrs Ds circumstances. Eventually 100% of her SSAS  fund was allocated 
between three  incredibly  risky property funds. 
Seven Wealth  contributed to Mrs Ds losses in two ways. First by recommending a SSAS (which  was 
wholly inappropriate for Mrs D) and which meant that she transferred a largely equity based pension 
fund from her EPP (which  was suitable for her) into a SSAS set up for the sole purpose of allowing 
Seven Wealth  and then Firm B to make investments for her which  they, let alone Mrs D, didnt  fully 
understand. 
Secondly, Seven  Wealth was the introducing agent for the MPPP 61 investment. Mrs Ds losses for 
that investment are £14,910  she invested £25,000 and only got £10,090 back.
the investigators view
The investigator though the complaint should  be upheld. She said David  Stock was responsible for 
the transfer and the MPPP 61 investment. She didnt  think  Mrs D needed  to transfer her EPP, which  it 
seemed was meeting Mrs Ds needs at the time.  And, in advising on the transfer,  Seven Wealth  had 
to consider the intended  underlying investment.  
The investigator thought MPPP 61 represented too high a proportion of Mrs Ds fund to be invested in 
UCIS. Mrs D wasnt a sophisticated investor or a high net worth individual. There was no evidence  
that Seven Wealth had carried out a detailed  fact find or assessed Mrs Ds attitude to risk. From  the 
suitability report dated 18 November 2006, which set out how Mrs Ds EPP had been invested,  it 
didnt seem she was a high risk investor. It was unclear if shed fully understood the risks of investing  
in MPPP 61. 
David Stocks  responses
David Stock didnt agree that the complaint  should be upheld. It doesnt accept  responsibility for the 
transfer and the MPPP  61 investment.  It says it has no record  of Seven Wealth  ever having  met with 
Mrs D and it has no point of sale documents. 
It initially provided a short statement from its adviser who recalled: 
He was asked by Firm Bs adviser to carry out an analysis of Mrs Ds EPP, which he did (the 
suitability letter dated 18 November 2006). The case he made was well presented and sound. 
But its irrelevant if his report  was never passed on to Mrs D. 
Ref: DRN98602258He believes the advice to use a SSAS instead of a SIPP came from Firm B and was due to 
differences in the funding rules  which at the time allowed Mrs D to contribute more  to a SSAS 
(an occupational pension scheme) than a personal pension.  
The SSAS  adopted the rules of the existing  EPP so it cant be said to have been unsuitable. It 
was essentially the same arrangement  but allowed  a wider investment choice.  
Advice on the property investments was given  by Firm B.
There was no paperwork about any advice  on the SSAS or copies of the application  forms 
because they were all completed by Firm B who also liaised with Mrs D. Seven Wealths 
adviser believes he was referenced because Firm B needed  to pay him for compiling the 
report about transferring  to a SIPP and so used the commission payment on the setting up of 
the SSAS. 
Thats  consistent with what Mrs D said at the outset of her complaint  that shed never  met or 
heard of Seven  Wealth or David Stock  and that all her dealings in respect of the SSAS and 
the investments  had been  with Firm Bs adviser  and his assistant.    
We supplied copies of documents from the SSAS provider. David  Stock said the SSAS application  
had been submitted fraudulently  on photocopied Seven Wealth headed  paper. I think David  Stock is 
referring here to a letter dated 10 April 2007. It isnt the application for the SSAS but the covering  
letter enclosing the application to invest in MPPP  61. Its on Seven Wealths notepaper and ostensibly  
from Seven Wealths  adviser but his signature has been pped  by, David  Stock  suggests, Firm Bs 
advisers assistant.  Examples of his signature (on Firm Bs notepaper) were provided, along  with 
examples of Seven  Wealths advisers  signature and redacted  suitability reports he issued in June 
and July 2007.  
A further, more  detailed, statement from Seven  Wealths adviser was also attached. He said:
He was contacted by Firm Bs adviser  who wanted an analysis of Mrs Ds EPP and the 
viability of transferring  to an alternative investment. 
He (Seven Wealths adviser)  prepared  the recommendation report dated 18 November 2006 
which he describes as a reasoned and balanced report with the risks of transfer and the fact 
that outcomes werent guaranteed fully explained.  He sent a draft of the letter to Firm Bs 
adviser. It seems,  from what Mrs D has said, that the report  wasnt shared with her. 
Firm Bs adviser  was discussing with Mrs D options to invest in property partnerships   that 
adviser was dealing with that for a number  of clients and considered himself  an expert in that 
type of investment. That wasnt something Seven Wealths  adviser would  advise on. His fund 
recommendations were restricted to more conventional investments,  as can been such  from 
the draft recommendation letter.  Hes never recommended any client to invest in any direct  
property schemes or unregulated investments. 
Mrs Ds earlier complaint documents that advice  was given by Firm B about  such  schemes 
and was in keeping with Mrs Ds speculative  attitude  to risk. Her EPP was invested in equity 
based funds which isnt consistent with a claim  that she was a cautious investor. To invest in 
the property partnerships that Firm B was recommending,  Mrs D needed a vehicle which 
offered wider investment  options  than her EPP.  Seven Wealths adviser recommended a 
SIPP. But with a SSAS there were advantages about future tax free cash  and Mrs Ds ability  
to make higher contributions.
The adviser  maintained his role, over and above his initial analysis, which wasnt acted  on, 
was of an administrative nature and that Firm B was handling everything with Mrs D. It was 
unfortunate that Seven  Wealth  was referenced on an application form which  it didnt complete 
but the adviser believed that was done to compensate  him for work  hed done at Firm Bs 
request. 
All Seven  Wealths files (including  Word documents, spreadsheets and scanned document  
files) were  copied  to disk drives (which can be made available for analysis if required). An 
extensive search of all the folders hadnt revealed any reference  to a suitability report dated  
15 March  2007 in respect of a SSAS. Or to any correspondence with Mrs D or product 
providers about an application for a SSAS.
Ref: DRN98602259We asked  for some more details  of the administrative work that Seven  Wealths adviser  had said hed 
helped Firm B with. The adviser said that hed undertaken some calculations on the performance of 
Mrs Ds EPP when hed prepared his report. He had one or two conversations with Firm Bs advisers 
assistant about the methodology used for some of the calculations, in particular, the annualised return 
which the assistant wanted  to know how to calculate himself.  
David Stock also said that Mrs D had confirmed shed  never met or heard  of Seven Wealth  or David  
Stock and that all her dealings in respect of the SSAS and investments were with Firm B. No controls 
in place at the time could have  prevented  Seven  Wealths letter  headed paper being obtained and 
used.  
David Stock also referred to the decision on Mrs Ds previous  complaint about  Firm B. Amongst  other 
things David Stock said: 
The adjudicator and the ombudsman in that case considered Mrs D was a high risk, 
speculative investor. But the investigator in the current complaint  considered Mrs D was a 
novice investor, who was only prepared to take a small risk with her capital. But her EPP was 
invested 100% in equity based funds  which isnt consistent with a conservative investment 
strategy. And on 30 January 2006,  prior to the MPPP 61 investment,  shed invested  £300,000  
in a Luxembourg  based investment bond. On 21 November 2006  she and her husband had 
declined advice to diversify their assets into cash and an equity  portfolio but instead wanted to 
increase their allocation in commercial property. 
The investigator had suggested Mrs D had no need  for the SSAS  but the adjudicator in the 
earlier complaint had noted Mrs Ds wish to invest in commercial property,  a relation having  
had a great deal of success in that area.  That couldnt be achieved  in the EPP hence the 
need to set up a SSAS. 
The MPPP 61 investment was made prior to other unregulated  investments that Firm B 
arranged at the same  time, and both the adjudicator and the ombudsman  didnt consider the 
later investments  and or the whole  portfolio were inappropriate. The earlier MPPP 61 
investment cant  have  been unsuitable.  
The suitability  report dated 18 November 2006 was suitable and appropriate for the sort of 
client that the investigator  had referred to. But the earlier complaint showed that Mrs D was a 
different type of investor. 
The investigator had said that Mrs D wasnt a high net worth individual but at the time she had 
£400,000 in one of her personal bank  accounts.
The investigator later clarified that she hadnt  suggested that effective controls  could have prevented 
letter headed paper  from being taken. But if Seven Wealth was remunerated  by the SSAS provider  
that should  have put David Stock on notice that the transfer had been arranged  in Seven Wealths 
name. 
The investigator also accepted that Mrs D may have been a high net worth individual.  That meant that 
unregulated investments  could be promoted to her. But any advice  to invest in such  funds still needed  
to be suitable for Mrs D. MPPP 61 made up around 25% of Mrs Ds SSAS  fund. The investigator 
maintained that was too high a proportion. She agreed that there was insufficient  evidence to show 
Mrs D was a cautious investor  at the time of the transfer. But Seven Wealth hadnt established Mrs 
Ds attitude  to risk and, despite the findings in connection  with the previous complaint,  the investigator 
didnt think Mrs D was willing to take a high degree of risk with her pension. In response David Stock 
said it had no record of any commission  having  been received from the SSAS provider. 
my provisional  findings
This complaint isnt straightforward.  There  are a number of issues which  Ive considered under the 
headings Ive set out. 
jurisdiction
Ref: DRN986022510David Stock initially said Mrs Ds complaint had been made too late and we couldnt  consider it. And, 
in response to my colleagues jurisdiction decision, David Stock made further comments  about Mrs 
Ds letter  dated 4 May 2010. Were required to keep jurisdiction  under review until we issue a final 
decision. So Ive considered  jurisdiction again. 
In his jurisdiction decision  my colleague  set out the relevant Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules. They 
say we cant  consider a complaint thats been  made more than six years after the event  complained 
of, or, if later,  more than three years from when the complainant became aware  (or ought  reasonably 
to have become aware) he or she had cause for complaint. 
Theres no dispute that the event complained of  the transfer to the SSAS  and any advice  given in 
connection with that - was more than six years before Mrs D complained to David Stock. That means 
the issue  is whether she became aware (or reasonably  ought  to have become  aware) she had cause 
for complaint  more than three  years before  she complained to David  Stock  in June 2018.  
Mrs D had complained,  with her husband, about Firm B in 2010.  But the focus of that complaint  was 
the investments  that had been recommended for the SSAS, rather  than the transfer to the SSAS. 
I agree with my colleague  that Mrs D only become aware  of David  Stocks involvement  in the transfer 
and the MPPP  61 investment when she got the letter from FSCS  dated 18 October 2017 which 
indicated that Seven Wealth  had been involved in the transfer and the MPPP  61 investment. 
But theres also Mrs Ds letter of 4 May 2010. Ive thought about  that very carefully. It refers  to a 
suitability report issued by Seven Wealth on 15 March 2007 recommending that Mrs D transfer her 
EPP to a SSAS.  No copy of that suitability  report has been produced. But the transfer to the SSAS  
was in April 2007. The timing is consistent  with a recommendation having  been made on 15 March 
2007 and as referred  to by Mrs D in her letter of 4 May 2010. That was just over three years later and 
so I think  Mrs Ds recollection as set out in that letter,  that a suitability letter was issue,  should  be 
reliable. Further, I cant see that shed have transferred to a SSAS without  professional advice. 
It would of course be preferable if the suitability letter  could be produced.  But, even if it cant, I think 
theres still enough  evidence for me to conclude that Seven Wealth did send a suitability letter to Mrs 
D on 15 March 2007 recommending that she transfer  her EPP to a SSAS. 
And thats supported by the SSAS providers  records which show that Seven Wealth  dealt  with the 
transfer. The firm that arranges the transfer is likely to have been the one who gave advice in 
connection with it. 
The question then arises when Mrs D became aware (or reasonably ought  to have become  aware) 
she had cause  for complaint about the transfer and Seven Wealths role in it. 
The letter dated 4 May 2010  shows  she was aware  then that Seven Wealth  had some involvement 
and, in particular,  that the letter recommending the transfer had been sent by Seven Wealth. Mrs Ds 
focus then may have  been on Firm B and the various  investments it had recommended, and not the 
transfer itself. But I dont think  its quite right to say Mrs D only became  aware  of Seven Wealths 
involvement after FSCS has written to her in October 2017. I think its clear that in 2010 Mrs D was 
aware of Seven Wealth and that it had played some part at least in the transfer.
But that doesnt necessarily  mean  that Mrs D was aware  then (or reasonably ought to have  become 
aware) that she might  have  cause for complaint about what Seven Wealth  did. It seems from what  
Mrs D said in the letter  of 4 May 2010 that she believed  Seven Wealth  was acting on the instructions 
of Firm B. And that Firm B was firm was paying  Seven Wealth.  On that basis,  and as the investigator 
suggested, Mrs D believed Firm B was responsible overall for what had happened and despite the 
recommendation letter  having been issued by Seven Wealth. If Mrs D was aware of Seven Wealths 
involvement but thought that it was acting on behalf of Firm B, I dont think  shed have necessarily  
realised that a separate complaint might lie against Seven Wealth about the transfer itself.  
Ref: DRN986022511Ive also seen  a further letter dated 1 July 2010 from Mrs D and her husband to Firm B in response to 
that firms rejection of the complaint Mrs D and her husband had made  in their letter of 4 May 2010. In 
the further letter  Mrs D said that Firm B had paid  a pension consultant to prepare a report to promote  
the transfer of the [EPP] to a [SSAS], in order to utilise the funds  within  the pension  to invest in 
property funds  
I think  that also shows Mrs Ds understanding  was that the Firm B was responsible for and was 
behind the transfer. Even though a report recommending the transfer may have been prepared by 
another business  Seven Wealth  that report had been  instigated and obtained by Firm B. 
All in all I dont think it would have been apparent to Mrs D that the involvement of another  regulated 
firm (Seven Wealth)  might  give rise to a separate complaint about that business. I think it would  still 
only have been when FSCS wrote  to her that she became aware of the significance  of the fact that 
Seven Wealth  gave  the transfer advice  and so might have  a case to answer, separate  and in addition 
to any complaint about the Firm B. 
Against that background I dont think Mrs Ds complaint against Seven  Wealth about the advice to 
transfer has been  made  too late. 
And, as Seven Wealth couldnt advise  properly on the transfer without  considering the proposed 
underlying investment, I think any complaint about  MPPP  61 can be considered too. I dont ignore that 
Mrs D said in her letter of 4 May 2010  that Firm B provided suitability reports  in April and June 2007 
for investing in MPPP 61. Ive accepted what Mrs D said in her letter about a suitability report  for the 
transfer having been  issued  by Seven  Wealth on 15 March 2007.  By the same token, I think I should 
regard as reliable Mrs Ds reference to suitability  reports about MPPP 61 having  been issued by Firm 
B. But the point remains that Seven Wealth, in advising on the transfer, had to consider the proposed 
underlying investment too. 
In saying  that, and without sight  of the recommendation  letter  dated 15 March 2007, I dont know 
whether the recommendation to transfer was on the basis that Mrs D was going to invest  in MPPP 61. 
Its possible that Seven  Wealth recommended  using a DFM as it did in connection  with a transfer to a 
SIPP. But I think that and other  issues are more to do with the merits of the complaint and so Ive 
considered them in that context below.  
scope of the complaint 
As mentioned,  Mrs D has made a previous complaint. And, as Ive said, the focus of that complaint 
was on the investments  Firm B recommended,  rather than the transfer to the SSAS. I can consider a 
complaint, made against  a different firm, about the transfer  itself. And, as Ive explained, because 
theres a requirement  to consider the proposed  underlying investment when recommending the 
transfer, I can consider the MPPP 61 investment which it seems,  on the face of it at least, Seven 
Wealth arranged almost  immediately the transfer to the SSAS was completed.  
But I dont think I can consider the other investments which Firm B recommended and arranged for 
Mrs Ds SSAS and which meant  that all her SSAS fund was allocated  between  three high risk 
property funds. 
I can see an argument that, but for the transfer to the SSAS, the subsequent investments couldnt  
have been made. And so Seven Wealth is responsible for any subsequent  investments made via the 
SSAS. But I dont think that would be the right approach  here and when Mrs Ds complaint about  the 
investments recommended by Firm B has already been determined.  
DISP 3.3.4A R says that I may dismiss  a complaint without considering its merits  if I consider that 
dealing with that type of complaint would  seriously impair  the effective operation of this service. The 
examples given in DISP  3.3.4B G include where the subject matter of the complaint has previously 
been considered by this service. 
Ref: DRN986022512My decision  here is confined  to the transfer  to the SSAS  and the MPPP 61 investment. Im not going 
to revisit  Mrs Ds earlier complaint. 
should the complaint be upheld?
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The time thats elapsed means that only limited documentation is available now.  And recollections 
may have faded and be less reliable than if an investigation  had been undertaken earlier. Ive had to 
reach my decision based on what information and documentation there is. Thats particularly  difficult 
given that exactly what happened isnt agreed. 
Ive found,  based on Mrs Ds letter  dated  4 May 2010, that Seven Wealth  did issue a recommendation  
letter on 15 March 2007. And it seems Mrs D was aware  of it in 2010 at least, even if shes since 
forgotten and misplaced it. It seems she believed  the report was written on the other firms instruction. 
But if the report was issued under Seven Wealths name it must  take responsibility for the advice 
given.
David Stock has suggested  there were  some irregularities and that Seven Wealths notepaper may 
have been used without  its knowledge. And David  Stock has pointed to the letter  dated 10 April 2007.  
But thats in connection with the MPPP  61 investment  rather than the transfer itself. Ive considered  
that letter  below.
The SSAS  application form appears  to have been completed  by Mrs D. Id assume  that it was filled in 
for her and just given to her to sign. No adviser is mentioned  on the form.  But, according to the SSAS  
providers records, Seven  Wealth arranged the SSAS.  
And Seven Wealths  adviser seems to recall  there was some arrangement  with Firm B which  meant 
Seven Wealth  was shown as arranging  the SSAS  to allow  the adviser to get the commission as 
payment for work done earlier  the analysis  of Mrs Ds EPP and the report  issued on 18 November  
2006. I note that letter opens  by saying that the advice  from Seven  Wealth is pursuant to a request 
from Firm Bs adviser. And thats consistent with what Mrs D said in her letter of 4 May 2010  that the 
recommendation was issued by Seven Wealth but on the advice of Firm B.  
David Stock says that no commission or other payment was ever received. But I think theres  
evidence that there was some agreement between Seven Wealths adviser and Firm Bs adviser. If 
thats what  happened, thats different to Firm B using Seven Wealths notepaper or doing something 
under its name without Seven Wealths knowledge or consent. 
If Seven Wealth knew and permitted the application  for the SSAS  to be made in its name then (and 
whether or not Seven  Wealth actually received any payment or commission)  I think Seven Wealth  
ought to have  known, if it later appeared there might be a problem with the transfer or the SSAS,  that 
Seven Wealth  might  be implicated. I think Seven Wealth is responsible for the transfer and its 
suitability for Mrs D. 
As Ive explained, Seven Wealth couldnt recommend  a transfer to a SSAS without considering the 
proposed underlying investment. Without sight  of the recommendation letter I dont  know what  
investment was contemplated in connection with the transfer. The transfer to the SIPP was 
recommended on the basis that Mrs D was going to use a DFM.  Its possible that the suitability letter 
for the SSAS said the same.  If that was the case then I dont think  Seven Wealth  would  be 
responsible if, unknown to Seven Wealth and on the advice of Firm B, Mrs D invested otherwise and 
in MPPP 61.
But that isnt consistent  with the letter of 10 April 2007, ostensibly from Seven Wealth to the SSAS 
provider and instructing it to invest in MPPP  61. That suggests Seven Wealth knew that Mrs D 
intended to invest some of her SSAS fund at least in an unregulated property scheme. 
Ref: DRN986022513David Stock suggests the letter was written by Firm B using Seven Wealths headed  notepaper but 
without Seven Wealths knowledge or consent. I agree  that the signature on the letter  isnt that of 
Seven Wealths  adviser and appears (although Im not of course  a handwriting expert) to be that of 
Firm Bs advisers  assistant.  I think that does raise some question marks. 
But, given what Seven  Wealths  adviser has said about how he worked  with Firm Bs adviser  and that 
Seven Wealths  adviser was apparently prepared to allow  the application for the SSAS to be made  
under Seven Wealths name,  I dont  rule out that sort of arrangement extending to the MPPP 61 
application too.  
But, even if that wasnt the case, it seems Seven  Wealths adviser was fully aware that Mrs D was 
being advised  by Firm B. And that Firm Bs adviser  considered himself an expert  in MPPP 61 and 
similar schemes and was recommending those investments to clients. I think Seven  Wealths adviser  
would or should have  known that it was likely  that Mrs Ds SSAS fund, or some of it at least, would be 
invested in UCIS. 
And, although  Seven  Wealths  adviser has stressed hes never advised a client to invest in 
unregulated funds,  the recommendation letter dated 18 November 2006 does mention, as another  
factor to consider,  investment flexibility and that a SIPP  would allow Mrs D to step  outside of the 
restrictive choice of unitised/equity based  funds  offered by her existing provider. And that we (that is 
Seven Wealth) might  recommend that Mrs D use her SIPP fund to invest  in commercial property, 
either directly or through a syndicate or similar  arrangement.  
All in all I think its likely that Seven Wealth knew that Mrs D was going to invest  in MPPP 61. 
So Ive considered  if the transfer from the EPP to the SSAS was suitable  on the basis  that the 
intended investment was MPPP 61. 
At the time of the transfer Mrs D was 45 years old and wanted to retire at age 60. The investigator 
said there was no evidence that Seven  Wealth took any steps to assess  Mrs Ds attitude to risk. I 
think the investigator may have been referring to the absence of any risk profiling  exercise  specifically 
in connection with the transfer to the SSAS in 2007. But Seven Wealths letter  dated  18 November 
2006 refers to Mrs D having completed a risk profiling questionnaire to help determine which  of Seven 
Wealths ten model  portfolios would be most suited to her circumstances. The transfer  to the SSAS 
was some four months later.  I wouldnt  expect Mrs Ds attitude to risk to have changed substantially 
and in the absence of some specific reason or event. 
The model  portfolios were classified  10 to 100 in incremental  steps denoting  the amount of equity 
exposure. The lowest  risk was 10 (10% equities, 90% fixed interest)  and the highest  100 (100%  
equities and 0% fixed interest). Based  on Mrs Ds answers a 70% equities/30% fixed interest portfolio  
was recommended.  I think that indicates that Mrs Ds attitude to risk was somewhere between  
medium and high.  
The letter also indicates  that Mrs Ds EPP was doing reasonably well. Seven Wealth commented  that 
it was evident from the analysis that your current arrangement has performed  reasonably  well over 
the 6 year investment  period  and compares favourably with the benchmark.  And the transfer analysis 
using an alternative provider offering a SIPP  showed,  based on charges and discounting investment 
performance, higher  maturity values for Mrs Ds existing EPP.  Mrs D was likely  to be worse off in 
retirement unless the new plan outperformed, which  couldnt be predicted. I agree that on the face of 
it a transfer might be difficult to justify. 
The letter set out the common reasons  for transferring:  poor fund performance;  limited or inflexible 
investment options; concerns about high charges, lack of information from the provider or a wish to 
consolidate pension  arrangements.  It seems that investment flexibility was the reason why the SIPP 
was recommended,  including, as Ive mentioned above, the possibility of investing  in commercial 
property. 
Ref: DRN986022514Its unclear why the recommendation changed from a SIPP to a SSAS. Mrs Ds ability  to contribute  
more to a SSAS  has been mentioned. But Ive not seen anything to show she wanted to increase her 
contributions. And she says the SSAS was recommended  because it allowed  investment in 
unregulated commercial property schemes. But certain SIPP operators would  have permitted those 
investments too. 
But, either way, it seems  that the driver for the transfer was because  Mrs D wanted a wider 
investment choice and in particular  exposure to commercial property. On that basis I dont think the 
SSAS was unsuitable. But the SSAS  will only be suitable if the proposed underlying investment  was 
suitable too. So Ive considered if MPPP 61 was suitable. 
The investigator initially  said that Mrs D wouldnt  have been willing to take any risk with her 
investments. But she later revised that. The investigator also said that Mrs D wasnt an experienced 
or sophisticated investor. Nor had she signed  a certificate saying she was a high net worth investor. 
But she later agreed that Mrs D may have  met the definition of a high net worth investor. 
Thats relevant because of the restrictions on the promotion of UCIS. At the time (March 2007)  there 
were exemptions set out in the FSMA (Promotion  of Collective Schemes (Exemptions)  Order 2001 (as 
amended) (the PCIS  Order) and the regulators Conduct of Business (COB) rules   see COB 3 Annex 
5 of COB 3.11.  The main  PCIS exemptions were  high net worth individuals (article 21) and 
sophisticated investors (articles 23 and 23A). The definition of a high net worth  individual was 
someone who, during  the previous year, had an earned annual income  of £100,000  or more  or who 
held investable assets of £250,000. 
 
The investor  was required to sign a statement  in prescribed terms. I havent seen any statement 
signed by Mrs D. But I think  she did meet the definition of a high net worth individual. There  are 
further exemptions in COB which might apply. For example, category 2 is about persons for whom the 
firm has taken  reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the UCIS is suitable  and who is an 
established or newly accepted customer of the firm. I think Mrs D was someone to whom UCIS could 
lawfully be promoted. 
The investigator referred to the regulators 2010 good and poor practice  report about UCIS.  It cited, as 
an example of good practice, where a firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion for UCIS 
investments within customers portfolios of between 3% and 5% and monitored it on an ongoing 
basis. Id emphasise  that was an example  of good practice.  Theres no suggestion  that the level 
mentioned  between 3% and 5% - was prescriptive or an indication that anything  above that level 
would always be regarded as unsuitable.  
Mrs D invested £25,000  of her SSAS  fund in MPPP 61. That represented  over 22% of the transfer 
value of £110,591.57.  Thats  a considerable  proportion  of Mrs Ds SSAS fund invested in a single 
unregulated scheme. But the SSAS didnt represent Mrs Ds entire  wealth. I think  its important to view 
the MPPP 61 investment in context and in the light of Mrs Ds overall financial position. David Stock  
suggests she had capital of at least £400,000. If thats right then (and leaving aside any other assets)  
the investment  of £25,0000 in MPPP 61 would  represent 5% of her overall  wealth (which is, 
coincidentally, within the parameters referred to above).  
I dont think the investment was inconsistent with the level of risk shed indicated she was prepared to 
take - somewhere between medium and high. And I think she had the capacity for loss that might 
result from investing a relatively  small  proportion  of her overall assets in a higher risk unregulated  
investment and in an asset class that it appears she favoured. I dont think the MPPP 61 investment 
was unsuitable for Mrs D. 
Lastly Id mention Mrs Ds previous complaint. Im not bound by the findings  reached by my colleague  
in deciding that complaint.  Im deciding  a different complaint  against a different firm and which 
focuses on the transfer to the SSAS  and not the more  wider ranging investment advice that Firm B 
appears to have given. 
Ref: DRN986022515But I have considered the information which came to light as a result of our investigation into the 
earlier complaint and which  is recorded in the final decision my colleague issued. I think it is relevant  
as Mrs Ds interactions with Firm B were round  about the same  time as any dealings  she had with 
Seven Wealth.    
Id make a couple of points. First, the evidence available in connection  with the earlier complaint led 
my colleague to conclude that Mrs Ds attitude to risk at the beginning of 2006 was demonstrably 
higher than medium. Further risk profiling exercises were undertaken  in November 2006 and 
February 2008 which werent inconsistent with that. Ive said that from what  Ive seen  Mrs Ds attitude 
to risk was somewhere between medium  and high risk. But even on that basis I was unable  to say 
that investing £25,000 in MPPP 61 was unsuitable  for her. Thats even more  the case if her attitude to 
risk was in fact closer  to speculative.   
Secondly, my colleagues decision refers  to a recommendation letter dated 21 November 2006.  And 
to Mrs D and her husband declining advice to diversity their assets in a cash  and equity portfolio  and 
instead wanting to increase  their allocation  to commercial  property.  That tends to support a finding  
that the transfer to the SSAS was driven  by Mrs Ds wish to invest  in commercial property. 
I can understand that Mrs D will be very disappointed  with my (provisional) findings particularly as the 
investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. Im very sorry that Mrs D has lost 
considerable sums but for the reasons Ive set out Im unable to uphold her complaint against Seven 
Wealth about  the transfer  to the SSAS and the investment  in MPPP 61.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  the complaint  and I dont make any award. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9860225