K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a shared appreciation mortgage by Barclays  Bank  UK Plc 
to Mrs A and the late Mr A.
Background
Mrs A is represented in this complaint by Mr M. For the sake  of convenience, and as it is her 
complaint, in this decision  I will largely  just refer to Mrs A and, where relevant, the late Mr A.
Mrs As main complaint  is that she considers that, in 1998, she was mis-sold a shared 
appreciation mortgage (SAM) on the basis that it was not properly explained  and that the 
terms of the lending are inherently unfair.  She feels that the level of repayment  should have 
been capped.
Barclays Bank responded to Mrs As complaint, saying the information it provided  at the time 
of the sale allowed her and her husband to make  an informed decision. It also said it was 
unable to make any changes to the terms and conditions of the SAM.
Barclays Bank also said they did not provide  any advice to Mr and Mrs A, and that it had 
suggested they take independent financial advice. Barclays  Bank confirmed that Mr and 
Mrs As solicitors  had declared  that they had carried out the actions required of them.
Barclays Bank did not uphold the complaint. And Mrs A has brought  it to this service to 
consider. Barclays Bank objected to this service considering  this complaint due to the rules 
relating to our jurisdiction.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020. However, before I go on 
to explain what my provisional findings  were, I feel it is worthwhile repeating some of the 
explanation of and background to SAMs, and the events of this particular case, which  was 
set out in further detail in that provisional  decision.
Background to SAMs  and the sale of Mr and Mrs As SAM
In 1998 Barclays  Bank  launched a new lending product; SAMs. Barclays  Bank  was not the 
actual lender for this product though. Barclays Bank  established a wholly  owned subsidiary 
company, Barclays SAMS Limited,  which acted as lender. Mr and Mrs As contract was with 
Barclays SAMS Limited .
A SAM was an equity  release  product,  which provided customers  with a loan that could last 
the lifetime of the borrower. The loan was secured  via a mortgage on their property. 
These SAMs  didnt  require any monthly payments from customers  and no interest was 
added to the loan. Instead,  at the time of repayment,  the customer  would have to repay the 
loan and a percentage  of the appreciation in the value of the mortgaged  property. This 
percentage was three times the loan to value ratio (LTV)  of the mortgage at the time of 
borrowing.
The maximum a customer could borrow was 25% LTV, which would lead to a repayment  of 
the loan and 75% of any appreciation. However, if the property  did not increase in value, the 
customer would only have  to repay  the amount of the initial  loan  with no appreciation.
Ref: DRN95675522Barclays Bank told us that it acted  as the lenders  agent, arranging and then administering  
the mortgages on behalf of Barclays SAMS Limited.  Barclays Bank has said that all activities  
involved were carried out by Barclays Bank staff, but as agent of Barclays  SAMS Limited. 
As a result of the sales of SAMs having  taken  place more than 20 years ago, not all of the 
evidence from the time is still available from Barclays Bank. Mrs A also hasnt been able to 
provide a detailed recollection of the events of this particular sale.
However, in addition to some case specific evidence,  Barclays Bank has been  able to 
provide some standard  documents  as well as an explanation of both the product launch and 
the standard sales process. 
Prior to the products launch, Barclays Bank  provided branch managers with information 
about SAMs, including  a Mortgage Information Manual (Manual) and training  support 
booklet. I have  not repeated the content  of these  here. 
The SAMs were advertised  via a number of means, including  posters in Barclays Bank 
branches, and adverts in at least one national newspaper. Unfortunately, due to the passage 
of time, Barclays Bank hasnt been able to provide  this service with examples of these.
However, the adverts apparently directed  interested parties to request a free Guide to 
Unlocking the Capital  in Your Home (Guide) written by the Daily Telegraphs Personal  
Finance Editor and sponsored by Barclays Mortgages. A copy of this Guide has been 
provided, though  it isnt known if Mr and Mrs A saw a copy  of this. 
The Guide explained some of the potential risks with SAMs as well as the potential benefits  
of the product. But it did not refer to any separation  of the lender from Barclays Bank. The 
front page  of the Guide  says that it has been  sponsored by Barclays  Mortgages. 
The Guide also set out the mechanics for calculating the repayment, repeatedly saying that 
the repayment amount was the loan plus three  times the increase in the proportion  of value 
borrowed which occurs after the loan is advanced. It included several worked examples 
demonstrating this. 
The final section of the Guide included the following:
in return for not having  to pay any interest on the capital unlocked  from the home by 
the SAM,  the owner  must currently repay  three times the proportion  of the original 
valuation borrowed from any increase in the house  price by the time it is sold or 
transferred. So the risk with a SAM is that house prices rise substantially and the 
homebuyer finds they have given up their right to receive up to 75 per cent of that 
uplift.
Parties interested in a SAM could also obtain  a copy of SAM product brochure (Brochure) 
from branches of Barclays Bank  and from Barclays Direct Mortgages.  Again, it isnt known if 
Mr and Mrs A received a copy  of this Brochure.
Ref: DRN95675523The Brochure referred  only to Barclays Bank  and Barclays Mortgages, and did not mention 
that a separate company  was the lender.  As well as giving some  details about the product, 
the literature stated, under the heading With you all the way:
To assist you in making a decision,  the free expert advice of a Barclays  Mortgage 
Specialist is available whenever you want. And because theres a Mortgage 
Specialist in many of our 2100 branches, you can be confident  help will always be 
close by.
The following  section, titled The next step, then said that to apply customers  should speak 
to the Mortgage  Specialist in branch or phone Barclays Direct Mortgages.
The Brochure gave the following explanation of how the SAM worked:
You simply borrow a percentage of your propertys current value for as long as you 
want without making  any monthly  payments, until you come  to part with your property 
(or die or wish to repay the loan).  
When you repay the loan,  you also pay a percentage of any increase in the value of 
the property at that time. It really  is that straightforward
Basically, if you come to sell your home  (or if you should die) you must pay the 
original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of your property at 
that time  The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by 
three and then multiplying  that by how much the property has gained  in value.
It also included an example of how some typical Shared Appreciation Mortgages work :
Original Valuation  (£) 100,000
Final Valuation (£) 150,000
Appreciation (£) 50,000
Amount Borrowed  (£) 15,000 20,000 25,000
Percentage  of Property 
Value  Borrowed (%)15 20 25
Lenders Share of 
Appreciation (£)(3x15%)x£50,000  
= 22,500(3x20%)x£50,000  
= 30,000(3x25%)x£50,000 
= 37,500
Total amount repayable (£)22,500 + 15,000 
= 37,50030,000 + 20,000 = 
50,00037,500 + 25,000 
= 62,500
Remaining equity (£) 112,500 100,000 87,500
Attached to the Brochure was an Important  Information You Must Read leaflet (Leaflet). 
This included a further example of a SAM:
The Leaflet  referred to the obligation to pay the Shared Appreciation to Barclays and that 
Barclays  is a responsible  lender.  
Ref: DRN95675524The Brochure and the Leaflet also referred  to Barclays  Bank  being  a member of the Banking  
Ombudsman Scheme.  And said that: 
Barclays  is committed  to The Mortgage Code and The Banking  Code,  both of which  
set out the commitments  and standards of banks in dealing  with their customers. As 
such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes.
The Mortgage Code  relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of 
information regarding  our mortgage  products and services  and how they operate.
This booklet therefore contains details regarding the following areas:
marketing of mortgages.
Included in the Mortgage Code are the levels  of service that can be provided under the code. 
These were  for Barclays Bank to provide:
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable  for the customer  
(Level A service), 
information on the different types  of mortgage product available  (Level B service),  
and 
information on a single mortgage  product only (Level C service). 
It seems  that, in many cases, sales involved a conversation in a Barclays Bank branch. An 
internal confirmation  of discussion form was completed at the time of such discussions, 
confirming the level of service provided. Its unlikely customers would have seen this form 
though.
The confirmation of discussion form completed  when Mr and Mrs A apparently  discussed  the 
SAM in a branch of Barclays Bank is dated 20 May 1998. It is completed on the basis of 
them having  been provided  with information about a single  product   a Level C service.  The 
Y/N answers against a number of the topics have been crossed out and SAM has been  
handwritten instead.
Consumers like Mr and Mrs A who chose to pursue the mortgage then had an application 
form submitted. This application was on a Barclays Mortgages headed form. 
Mr and Mrs As application form set out their personal details and the loan sum required.  The 
estimated value of Mr and Mrs As property was £170,000 and the desired loan amount was 
£30,000 (17.65% of the value). The form did not include details of the purpose of the loan. 
Attached to the application  was a declaration form that consumers were  required to sign.  Mr 
and Mrs A signed this on 1 June 1998.  The first point  on this declaration form stated:
I apply for a Shared Appreciation  Mortgage  from Barclays SAMS Limited a 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
No further information on this was given though. There were also references to the 
consumer agreeing to their information  being  used by the Barclays  Group, without  this 
group being  defined. 
In order to apply,  consumers needed to agree  to a booking fee, which was paid into a 
Barclays Bank Suspense  account. This would be retained by Barclays Bank  if the customer 
did not take the mortgage or if they redeemed it within the first year.
Ref: DRN95675525The application was considered and, if approved,  an offer was sent to consumers in the form 
of an offer.  Mr and Mrs As offer was sent on 8 June  1998. 
The offer did not specifically  list the lender, but the document included a footer  indicating  it 
had been produced by Barclays SAMS Limited.  After providing details of the offer, it included 
the following  statement:
For the purposes of the Mortgage Code, we have provided you with information  on a 
mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs As offer confirmed  the amount of the loan being provided and included the 
following statement:
We strongly recommend that you take independent  financial  and legal advice 
relating to the terms of the Loan.
And then explained how the loan would be repaid, as follows:
It also included the following  worked  example:
Mr and Mrs As offer stated that the customers didnt need to sign to accept the loan, but that 
it needed to be drawn  down  by 31 July 1998 or the offer would be withdrawn.
A copy of the offer was also sent to Mr and Mrs As solicitor, along with a request for a report 
on the title of the property and Instructions to Solicitors.  These Instructions directed, in part, 
solicitors to confirm that the consumers understood the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. Once this confirmation had been received, the loan amount  was to be transferred 
to Mr and Mrs As solicitor.
Mr and Mrs As solicitors  wrote to Barclays Bank on 16 July 1998 with the completed  Report  
on Title. The points  that Mr and Mrs As solicitor agreed to in completing  this included  that 
they had complied with the Instructions, including that the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage had been explained to Mr and Mrs A. They  requested the loan amount be 
released on 23 July 1998.
My provisional findings
As mentioned, I issued  my provisional  decision  on this complaint in February 2020. 
I firstly considered whether or not this service  had jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
Having taken into account the relevant facts,  I thought that this service  did have jurisdiction 
to consider some aspects  of this complaint, but not others. 
I explained that the ability of this service to consider  complaints  stems  from the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000. The relevant provisions and associated rules have been 
incorporated into the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook,  particularly the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints (DISP)  section  of this Handbook. DISP sets out the extent of this 
Ref: DRN95675526services jurisdiction. We are bound to follow these  rules and so can only look at a complaint 
if allowed  by the rules.
Part of Barclays Banks objections related to the fact that this complaint had been made 
many years after the sale of the SAM. But whilst I agreed that the complaint had been 
brought more  than six years after the event  being  complained about, I was not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs A ought reasonably to have  been  aware of any cause for complaint. And 
that the rules  allowed  the complaint to be brought within three  years  of such awareness.
Although there had been media interest and some legal action, this did not involve Mr and 
Mrs A. And I was not persuaded that they would have been or ought  reasonably  to have 
been aware of this. I considered that it was discovering the amount ultimately payable  on 
redemption that led to this complaint being made. And as the complaint had been made 
within three years of this, I considered the complaint was within our jurisdiction in terms of 
this aspect of the rules.
Barclays other main objection related to its assertion that it was acting  as the agent of 
Barclays SAMS Limited  and had not provided  Mr and Mrs A with any service of its own. 
This complaint relates to the sale of the SAM,  which took place in 1998  - before  the start of 
the Financial Ombudsman Services compulsory jurisdiction on 1 December 2001. In my 
provisional decision, I explained  that, by virtue  of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Transitional  Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and Complaints Scheme)  Order  2001 
(the Ombudsman Transitional Order), this service can consider a complaint that happened 
prior to 2001, if that complaint would have been  considered by one of our predecessor  
schemes.
However, article 7 of the Ombudsman Transitional Order explains that, if we are able to 
consider a complaint, we need to do so on the same basis as the former scheme would  
have.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that the Office of the Banking  Ombudsman (OBO) 
would have considered complaints about certain  actions of members, or designated 
associates, of that scheme and that Barclays Bank  was such a member. The OBO would 
have considered complaints relating to Barclays Bank providing a banking service. 
I also explained that, in my view, the OBO would have considered Barclays  Bank to have 
been providing a banking  service in a situation  where it was providing information about or, 
where relevant,  advice  on a credit agreement secured  on land by a first charge mortgage.  
And that, as Barclays Bank provided such  a service to Mr and Mrs A during the sale of their 
SAM, in my view, the OBO would have considered a complaint about  this. 
But I confirmed that this complaint would be limited to considering  the information and any 
advice provided  about the product, as this was the extent of Barclays Banks  direct  
involvement. 
I further set out that Barclays SAMS Limited was not a member or a designated associate of 
the OBO  scheme or any other relevant former  scheme. Nor has Barclays  SAMS  Limited  
been directly covered  by this services Compulsory  Jurisdiction. So, I considered that this 
service did not have jurisdiction to consider  a complaint against  Barclays SAMS Limited itself 
about the sale of the SAM.  And that, as it was Barclays  SAMS  Limited that was responsible  
Ref: DRN95675527for the terms and conditions of the SAM, rather than Barclays  Bank, I considered this service 
did not have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about these terms or their fairness.  
Having established  what parts of this complaint I considered to be within the jurisdiction of 
this service, I went on to consider what I thought  the fair and reasonable outcome of this 
complaint was. 
Whilst I was satisfied that, in some  situations, Barclays  Bank may have advised customers  in 
relation to taking  out a SAM, I was not persuaded that such  advice had been provided to Mr 
and Mrs A. The application form only included basic information, rather than the detail I 
considered would have been  required in order for Barclays  Bank to have provided advice. 
And whilst Mr and Mrs A may not have seen the confirmation of discussion form, it has been 
completed on the basis that advice was not being given. I also thought it was significant  that 
none of the evidence Mrs A had been  able to provide indicated she or her husband  believed  
they had been provided with advice.
I explained that, taking all of the circumstances into account, I did not consider it to be more  
likely than not that Barclays Bank provided, or acted so as to lead Mr and Mrs A to believe 
they were providing,  advice in relation to the sale of this SAM.
I also thought  about the information  provided  to Mr and Mrs A at the time,  and whether  this 
would have allowed  them  to understand  the SAM. In doing so, I took into account the 
approach the OBO would have taken,  had a complaint about this been referred to them.
The main  concern that Mrs A had raised was that the information and examples used were 
not clear enough  for her and her husband  to understand the real financial implications of the 
SAM. 
I explained I thought the training  material  provided to branch staff meant  it was most likely 
they would  have understood the mechanism involved with the SAM. And I thought it most 
likely they would have  relied on these and the promotional material when discussing the 
SAM with Mr and Mrs A. 
I noted the confirmation of discussion form was amended by hand to specifically refer to 
SAM and consider  this indicated the branch staff were aware this loan was different to a 
standard mortgage. As such, I said I didnt think it was more likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs A were  given incorrect verbal  information  about the mechanism  involved with the SAM.
I also explained that I considered the written  information Barclays  Bank provided made it 
clear that the sum to be repaid was not a direct equivalent of the LTV of the loan. As 
Barclays Bank has said, it was not possible to accurately predict what  would happen to the 
value of Mr and Mrs As property, nor how long it would be until the loan was redeemed.  This 
meant that all that could  reasonably be provided  was the formula for the calculation  and 
some examples of possible outcomes.
Before providing  several examples of how this might work  in practice, the Brochure  set out 
the mechanism  for how the shared appreciation amount payable  on redemption  was 
calculated as follows:
The share  will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by three and 
then multiplying that by how much  the property has gained in value.
Ref: DRN95675528In my provisional decision,  I explained  I considered this provided  a reader with a reasonable 
level of information  to allow them to understand the basic mechanism behind  the mortgage.  
And I didnt  consider the language used was unclear or misleading.
Further written examples of how the SAM  worked  were provided in the Leaflet and the offer. 
And, although the examples in these documents used different figures, I considered  these 
differences gave  the reader more opportunity to see possible outcomes. 
I did note the offer used a number of terms which have  specific definitions.  But I considered 
that these definitions were  clearly  provided. So, whilst a customer  would  be required to 
consider the document  carefully, I dont consider the language used to have been 
inappropriate.
Because of the nature of the loan, definitive figures  could not be provided. But I did not 
consider that this in itself meant the information  provided was unclear or misleading.
Overall, I thought Barclays Bank had provided  information that would have allowed Mr and 
Mrs A to understand  the financial implications of the SAM.
Ultimately, my provisional decision was that this complaint was partly  within  the jurisdiction 
of this service. But that I was unable to conclude that this was a complaint that I could  fairly  
and reasonably uphold. I invited both parties  to provide any further comments or evidence.
Responses of the parties to the provisional  decision
Barclays Bank responded. They accepted  the provisional jurisdiction findings  and made no 
substantial further  representations in relation  to the merits of the complaint. 
Mr M responded to the provisional decision on behalf of Mrs A. He made a number of 
comments, which I have  considered in full. But he also provided a summary of these, and I 
consider it helpful  to repeat this here.  He said:
Barclays [Bank] did not make it clear that they were only an agent for the 
SAM.
I believe that Mr. And Mrs A would only have taken this SAM out after 
receiving advice from Barclays [Bank]  as they were promoting the product 
and wanted to sell it.
The SAM  is certainly weighted massively in favour  of the Bank  and to receive  
an interest rate of over 14% for this product  is totally unjustified  and penalises 
Mrs. A significantly.
I feel that the SAM  does not constitute a fair product.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Largely speaking my provisional findings over the jurisdiction of this service  in terms of this 
complaint have not been contested by either party. But I appreciate  Mrs A still has concerns 
over what  she considers to be the fairness of the loan.
Ref: DRN95675529A complaint about whether the terms and conditions of a loan were  unfair  would need to be 
considered against the lender itself though. The terms of a loan are set by the lender, not the 
intermediary. As has been previously explained,  the lender of Mr and Mrs As SAM was 
Barclays SAMs Limited. So, it is Barclays SAM Limited that is responsible for the terms of 
the SAM.
I appreciate that Barclays SAMs Limited  is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank and that it was 
Barclays Bank that decided to launch this product. But Barclays SAMs  Limited  is 
nevertheless a separate company and Barclays Bank cannot be held liable for the actions of 
this separate company. These actions include the terms of the SAM,  including whether or 
not they are fair. And this applies also to the relationship between  the borrower and the 
lender.
This also applies even  though Mr and Mrs A may not have  been  aware  that Barclays  Bank  
was not the actual lender.  
I agree  with Mr M that Barclays Bank  most likely did not make  sure Mr and Mrs A were  
aware that the lender  was a separate company. And I do think that they should have been 
clearer on this point.  However, significantly,  I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs A would not 
have taken out the SAM had they been  aware of this. 
Mr and Mrs A approached the bank seeking  to borrow. It isnt clear what the reason for this 
borrowing was, or whether they had already identified the SAM as the product they wanted. 
But I think their main  intention was to obtain the lending. 
As this sale was carried out prior to the formal regulation of mortgages,  I consider that the 
fact that there was a separation between Barclays Bank and the lender, would have had 
limited impact on Mr and Mrs As decision to borrow. Barclays  SAMS Limited, although being 
a separate company, was wholly owned by Barclays Bank. And had the arrangements  been 
explained fully, I dont think Mr and Mrs As decision would have been any different.
Mr M considers that the fact there were discussions with branch staff means it is reasonable 
to assume that advice  was given. Whilst I appreciate his comments, sales of many financial 
products  including mortgages, take place without  advice  being provided. This was 
recognised generally  by the different levels of service referred to in the Mortgage  Code. 
Whilst I agree that the unsigned  confirmation  of discussion form is of limited  evidential 
weight, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs A received any advice from Barclays Bank to 
take out the SAM. Mrs A has made  no comments to this effect. And none of the documents 
from the time of the sale have been  completed in a manner  that indicates  advice  was given. 
I do also note that the sales documents give different examples of the APR. However, I think  
the Leaflet does explain this clearly.  Whilst the stated APR for the SAM was 3%, the need  to 
pay the shared  appreciation  has an impact  on this. In the worked  example in the Leaflet, the 
APR is calculated to be 8.7%. But if the value of the hypothetical property used in the 
example didnt increase as much, the calculated APR would  be lower. If the value increased 
more, the calculated APR would be higher.
Letting customers know the interest  rate applicable  to their mortgage was a requirement of 
the Mortgage Code. However,  because the interest  rate payable on a SAM was dependent  
on appreciation of the mortgaged property, it wasnt possible for this figure to be provided for 
Ref: DRN956755210each property being mortgaged. But, by given the examples Barclays  Bank did, I consider 
they provided appropriate information to allow customers to understand this.
I do recognise the strength of feeling expressed  by Mr M and Mrs A. And I realise  that this 
decision will come as a disappointment to them. But having considered  all of the 
circumstances of this case,  I consider Barclays Bank provided Mr and Mrs A with 
appropriate information for them  to understand the SAM. And I have seen  no persuasive 
evidence that Barclays Bank provided  advice in relation to Mr and Mrs As SAM. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9567552