K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have  applied unfair charges to his credit card 
account.
background
Mr O has a credit card account with Vanquis that he opened in June 2017.
In September  that year Mr O exceeded  the £150  limit on the card. This meant he was 
charged a £12 fee. In October  2017  the required monthly payment to the card was not 
received, as the direct debit was unsuccessful.  This also incurred an additional  £12 fee. 
As no further  payments were received to the card, it remained over the limit. This meant  
Mr O was charged a fee each month  for being  over his credit limit and for each missed 
payment.
In January 2018 the account  was passed  to an external debt collection agency as no further 
payments were received. 
In March 2018 Mr O made  a complaint  to Vanquis  as he was unhappy  with the interest  and 
charges that had been applied to the account  before  it was passed to the external company. 
He felt the charges were excessive and unaffordable as they made up a large  part of the 
outstanding balance.
Vanquis didnt  uphold Mr Os complaint as it said the charges were standard and were made 
clear in the terms and conditions  of the credit  card.
Mr O wasnt happy with Vanquis response as he felt it was vague and still didnt think  the 
charges were fair. He brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided  by both Mr O and Vanquis  and didnt 
recommend the complaint was upheld.  He found  that Vanquis had applied  the charges to 
Mr Os account in line with the terms and conditions  and thought this was fair in the 
circumstances. Mr O didnt agree with this as he said he didnt have the information about 
the charges before the complaint was resolved. He asked for his complaint to be looked at 
by on ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O currently  has other  complaints against  Vanquis that either  have been  or are being 
considered by this service. The complaint  I am deciding on here, is just about  the fees and 
interest that have been charged on his credit card account. I therefore have only considered 
whether Vanquis  have  treated Mr O fairly in relation to the interest  and charges applied  to 
his account in this decision.
When Mr O took out a credit card with Vanquis he entered into a contract with them called a 
credit card agreement. This agreement is subject to terms and conditions that both Mr O and 
Vanquis agreed to. The credit card agreement was available  online when Mr O first applied 
and a copy of the terms and conditions were sent to him with his credit card.  
Ref: DRN98961492Vanquis have provided me with a copy of the agreement and the terms and conditions. They 
explain that interest will be charged for all transactions on the card. They  also explain that 
there will be extra charges applied in certain circumstances. These include where  a payment 
to the card isnt received by the agreed date and where the agreed  limit is exceeded. 
Once Mr O had applied  online, he called Vanquis  to complete his application. Ive listened to 
this call. During the call, the call handler  explained  the interest rate to Mr O. He also outlined  
the extra charges arranging  a cash advance would incur and confirmed the credit limit on the 
card to Mr O a number of times.
Vanquis have also provided me with the statements for Mr Os credit cards  up until the point 
it was passed  to the external debt collector.  These statements were available for Mr O to 
view online each month. On each of the statements, the amount of interest that has been  
charged is outlined.  Where extra fees have been  charged, these have also been highlighted,  
with an explanation of what they are for and how to avoid them  in future. Vanquis have also 
provided system notes  to show that text message  alerts were sent to Mr O each month  to 
make him aware of the statements and how much  was owed.
Im therefore  satisfied that Vanquis provided Mr O with enough information about the fees 
and interest both when  he applied for the account  and when he accrued the charges.
Ive also considered whether the charges have been  applied fairly. I can see that the 
charges applied to Mr Os account  are made  up of interest charges, fees for withdrawing  or 
transferring funds from the credit card, late payment fees and over limit charges. These 
charges and fees are all laid out in the credit agreement and in each  statement.  Theyre  also 
inline with what other banks charge and would be the same for all Vanquis customers  in the 
same position. I therefore cant  say that Vanquis  have  treated Mr O unfairly by applying  the 
charges, as theyre in line with the terms and conditions and would be the same  for all their 
customers.
I appreciate that a large part of the balance that Mr O now owes is made up of the charges, 
which may feel unfair. However  the reason for this is because Mr O went over his agreed 
limit in September 2017 and didnt  make any payments after this point.  Because of this fees 
continued to be added  to the account  until it was passed to the debt collector,  as detailed in 
his statements.
I can see that Vanquis contacted Mr O on a number of occasions  to advise him that his 
direct debit had been  unsuccessful. From what Ive seen  Mr O didnt provide any reason why 
he hadnt met the payment other than that he had forgotten and he had spent more than he 
expected. In January Mr O cancelled his direct debit  to the card.  I therefore  think Vanquis 
tried to warn  Mr O that he would  be charged  and that a payment  needed  to be made, so 
Mr O had the opportunity  to make the payment  and avoid further charges. So I am satisfied 
that Vanquis treated Mr O fairly  when  applying the charges.
For the reasons  explained above Im not able to uphold Mr Os complaint. After looking at 
the fees and interest that have been applied to Mr Os account,  I can see that they are in line 
with those laid out in the credit card agreement  and have been  applied fairly. I can also see 
that this information was available for Mr O to view when he applied for the card and the 
terms and conditions were sent to him with his credit card. I therefore cant  say that Vanquis  
have treated Mr O unfairly in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN98961493my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and dont require Vanquis 
Bank Limited  to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9896149