K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA  (PayPal)  have rejected  his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75) and that theyve not made 
reasonable adjustments for his disability.
background
Mr T bought  a TV in March 2018.  Its agreed  that the TV was advertised  as ex display 
possibly refurbished. He bought the TV through an on-line marketplace and used his PayPal 
account to process  the transaction. But the TV developed a fault within five months as the 
top and bottom  of the screen tended  to flicker  and showed lines.
Mr T was unable  to claim under his warranty as that prohibited claims for this fault.  He tried 
to resolve the matter  with the supplier  but when this proved difficult he contacted PayPal. He 
said that as the provider  of credit they had an equal  responsibility for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract.
PayPal initially declined  the claim Mr T made to them as they said the warranty  issues  
werent covered  under  their buyer  protection programme but they did say that if he wished 
them to consider the claim  under  section  75 he would  need to provide some  further  
information on his claim.  They said he could do this by returning a form they sent to him and 
providing some evidence of the fault. They repeated the same advice in their final response 
on the matter in September 2018  when they noted  that the section 75 forms had not been 
returned to them. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator considered the evidence.  She 
noted that Mr T had explained that hed called PayPal  when  he received their letter asking 
him to complete  the section  75 information. He said hed explained to them that he was 
dyslexic and asked them if theyd  be prepared to make reasonable adjustments for him and 
take the requisite information over the phone. But he said they wouldnt do that and that hed 
also requested they do so through a letter hed had sent from the Citizens  Advice Bureau. 
So our investigator asked PayPal to provide  copies  of the call records but they refused  as 
they said they were  purely for training  and quality purposes.  In the absence of these calls 
she noted that even when  this service got involved  and PayPal agreed to call Mr T and 
discuss his section 75 complaint, they had subsequently written to him asking him to 
document his claim. She thought they hadnt  made reasonable adjustments for Mr T. So she 
suggested they pay him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced as a result.
She considered the video evidence provided  by Mr T of the fault and she didnt think  it was 
reasonable to suggest a TV, even a reconditioned  one, should fail so soon after purchase. 
So she thought PayPal should refund his payments for the TV and add interest until the date 
of settlement  and that they should collect the TV at no further cost to him.
But PayPal disagreed. They said Mr T hadnt mentioned  his dyslexia to them until his 
complaint was opened and they said the email theyd sent to him, after theyd called to take 
his section 75 submissions, was to confirm the conversations theyd had. It was an email 
hed expected. They queried  why this service had asked them to pay 8% interest and they 
questioned why wed ask them to pay for collection of the TV. So they asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN93873362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the faulty TV
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr T made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit, as is 
the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. 
This section  of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Here Im persuaded  that there has been  a breach  of contract as the TV has not been of 
satisfactory quality. The quality of goods  is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a TV the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and price. This appears  to be a refurbished TV but its a newish, quality 
model.
Ive reviewed the video  evidence  Mr T has provided  and can see that there is a line along 
the bottom  of the TV display that flickers  independently of the image being displayed.  
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect a TV to fail so soon after supply (I see Mr T 
complained to PayPal  within six months but says he complained to the supplier earlier)  and I 
can see no reason why PayPal shouldnt fairly and reasonably be asked to provide redress  
here.
I think the fairest redress would be to return the TV and for Mr T to be refunded  for it. Ive 
considered Mr Ts testimony  here.  Hes explained  how his disabilities make  it difficult  to 
entertain his children and how important the TV therefore is to him. A repair  would, Im 
Ref: DRN93873363persuaded, be particularly disruptive as the TV would need  to be sent away.  I think  it would 
be fairer for PayPal to provide a refund in the circumstances.
reasonable adjustments
PayPal say they were  unaware of Mr Ts disability and therefore couldnt  have been 
expected to accommodate it.
Ive not been able to review the calls Mr T had with PayPal as theyve refused to provide 
them. But Im persuaded they couldve done more to support Mr T because:
Mr T also tells us he had the Citizens Advice Bureau write  to PayPal and request 
they make reasonable adjustments. I dont think this wouldve been  necessary if they 
had
PayPal wrote to Mr T directly after the call they made to take his verbal  section 75 
submission. Whilst I understand they say this was written confirmation of the call; I 
dont agree. The email  asked Mr T to provide a written summary  of the purchase and 
a written summary of the claim. These  were  the very things Mr T was trying to avoid.
So I think, in those circumstances, PayPal should  compensate Mr T for the distress and 
inconvenience their failure  to make reasonable adjustments  caused  and in the 
circumstances I agree that £100 would be fair.
interest
I agree  with the investigators suggestion that PayPal should pay 8% interest on Mr Ts 
purchase from the date of payment  until the date of settlement. But I can see that theyve 
questioned this.
Our power  to tell businesses to pay interest  comes from the Financial Services  and Markets 
Act 2000.  Its also set out in DISP 3.7 in the FCA Handbook. And here I think its fair and 
reasonable to ask PayPal to pay interest to compensate Mr T for being deprived of money 
he should have  had.
postage/collection costs
Its not Mr Ts fault that the TV was delivered to him faulty. Thats the suppliers  issue and if 
they delivered a faulty product I think it would be fair for them to pay to have it returned. But 
the supplier hasnt co-operated  here. Mr T has a like right to claim against the credit provider 
as against the supplier. So I think its fair and reasonable to ask PayPal to cover any costs  to 
have the product returned to them if thats  what they wish to happen. 
It cant be assumed that PayPal will be able to get the money  back from the supplier 
themselves but I think its fair to suggest the loss should  lie with them as they have the 
broader back and are more able to spread the cost. Theyre  in a better position to argue for 
sanctions against the supplier and I think Mr T is entitled to assume  he can trust suppliers 
who are authorised to use PayPals  service.
Ref: DRN93873364my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, 
SCA to:
refund  the money Mr T paid for the TV and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
collect the TV at no extra cost to Mr T
pay Mr T £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  this matter  has 
caused him
remove any adverse data they may have reported to his credit file in relation to this 
issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9387336