K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Cs comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Mr and Mrs C say they were not aware the PPI had been added  to their account.  
However this did happen  about  19 years ago and I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything  that happened that long ago. And Ive seen the application form for PPI 
that both Mr and Mrs C signed at the time.  So I think, at least  at the time, theyd have  
been aware they were applying for PPI. Looking at the documents, I think Bank of 
Scotland did present the PPI as a choice, and Mr and Mrs C agreed to it. 
 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Mr and Mrs C received any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. 
And it would  have put off the time when they would need to fall back  on any savings  or 
other means they may have had for paying  the mortgage. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs C in a more  secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially 
useful. 
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs C would have  
understood how much it would  cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected by any of these. Its likely 
they were eligible  for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel 
it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed.
Ref: DRN90624892my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062489