K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  on part interest  only part repayment  terms. As they were 
coming to the end of a fixed rate, they took advice from L&G.  It recommended that they 
move lender  and switch  to repayment,  consolidating  some  unsecured  debt in the process. 
Mr and Mrs H have since consulted a claims management company (CMC),  which  makes 
this complaint on their behalf. The CMC says the mortgage was mis-sold because the debt 
consolidation wasnt necessary and there was no need to move lender or change  the type of 
mortgage  or that could have been  done with the existing lender. It said advice to buy a will 
from a third party and add the cost to the mortgage  wasnt appropriate. And it said the fees 
Mr and Mrs H were charged  were unreasonable  including  fees paid to a solicitor it said 
L&G told them to use.
L&G offered  to refund part of the cost of the will and the interest  incurred by adding the cost to 
the mortgage. And it accepted it wasnt suitable to consolidate an unsecured  loan, so offered 
to refund the cost, subject to evidence  that Mr and Mrs H actually paid it off with the mortgage  
proceeds. It also offered £150  compensation.  Its since  also offered to refund commission the 
broker received for referring them to the solicitor and a further  £100  compensation, which  the 
CMCs accepted. But it didnt think advising them to re-mortgage was unsuitable, and said it 
advised Mr and Mrs H to convert to repayment because  that would ensure their mortgage was 
paid off  they were  concerned about  an endowment shortfall.
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. But the CMC didnt agree. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs H couldnt be expected to provide 
evidence of having repaid  the loan. And it didnt think the fees they were charged  were reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC says that L&G should  have  recommended  Mr and Mrs H to contact their existing 
lender. If L&G had arranged a new mortgage for them with the existing lender, it would still 
have charged them  the same  fees for doing so  and as they were borrowing more money, a 
valuation would still have  been necessary too. Its true that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have paid 
fees to L&G if theyd approached the existing lender direct themselves. But I dont think 
theres any obligation on a broker to advise  a client not to use their services  if a client  asks 
for advice   unless  theres no suitable mortgage to recommend.
The fact find records that Mr and Mrs Hs endowment  was projected to fall short  of the 
original sum assured   which would have left them with an extra  amount to pay on the 
interest only element  at the end of the term. Its not unreasonable  for them  to have been 
concerned about  this  and whether the shortfall could get worse  and as a mortgage on 
repayment terms was affordable  for them I think that was a suitable recommendation to have  
made. It ensured the mortgage would be paid off by the end of the term without the need  to 
rely on the endowment. And the fact find records that Mr and Mrs H discussed reducing the 
interest only element,  but they preferred to switch the whole mortgage over.
Ref: DRN90287172I agree  that there was no need  for the loan to be consolidated,  and Im pleased  to see L&G 
has offered to refund it. I note from the completion statement that the solicitors  paid the 
funds to Mr and Mrs H, not direct to the loans lender. If Mr and Mrs H used those  funds to 
pay off the loan, then theyve  incurred  a loss due to unnecessary consolidation. 
But if, in fact, they didnt and used  the funds for some other  purpose  they havent  followed 
the advice they were  given and so it didnt cause any loss. I dont think its unreasonable  to 
ask Mr and Mrs H for evidence that they did this. I accept that it might be difficult to prove  
with the passage of time,  though Ive seen no evidence that theyve  asked the loan lender for 
statements which it hasnt been  able to provide. But while it might be difficult, it is for 
Mr and Mrs H to show that theyve incurred a loss, and its fair to expect them  to do so 
before compensation is paid.
I agree  that it wasnt necessary to include  the will payment  in the mortgage balance, 
meaning Mr and Mrs H would  have  to pay interest  on it. I think L&Gs  offer here is fair to 
resolve that part of the complaint. If Mr and Mrs H or the CMC dont think the fee charged by 
the will company is fair or good value, thats a matter  to take up with the will provider. As 
regards the other fees they paid,  I think theyre clearly set out and Mr and Mrs H agreed  to 
them at the time. While other brokers might be cheaper,  or describe their fees in different 
ways, I think it was clear what Mr and Mrs H were being asked to pay and, ultimately, they 
received the service they paid for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think the offers Legal & General  Partnership  Services  Limited 
have made  are a fair and reasonable  way to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9028717