K822xcomplaint
In summary,  Mr S complains that he was misled  about the cost of a hire purchase 
agreement he took out with BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited  (BMWFS).  He says he 
should be allowed  to cancel it.
When I refer to what Mr S and BMWFS has said it should also be taken to include things 
said on their behalf.
background
Mr S says the dealership which arranged the finance gave him the impression that if he 
didnt agree to the deal by 1 March 2018  then the price would increase and he would lose 
out. He says he felt pressured to agree things and shortly afterwards cheaper deals were  
available. 
Mr S says that he was misled. The broker offered  to sort things out with a goodwill gesture. 
But Mr S wasnt  happy  with this. He says he wants to end the finance and walk away and get 
compensation for all the trouble this has caused  him.
BMWFS says what the broker told Mr S about  the price going  up was true - the cost of the 
car did increase.  However, cheaper  finance deals became available which it didnt know 
about beforehand.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary, he didnt  think the broker had told 
Mr S anything that would  justify ending the finance  agreement. And he didnt think  
Mr S had a right to withdraw from the agreement either.
Mr S maintains the broker  misled him to get him to sign up to the original deal. Mr S also 
says, in summary:
he made it clear he wanted  to cancel the agreement soon after he signed it;
although the agreement does not allow a right of withdrawal under section 66A of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA)  it should  have  been  cancellable in accordance  
with section 67 of the CCA; and
proper cancellation  information was not provided  at the time of sale and the 
agreement was not in the right cancellable format therefore was improperly  executed 
and is unenforceable.
I did a provisional  decision on this case on 11 February 2020.  In this I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr S has provided very detailed submissions. Even  if I do not go into the level of 
detail which  he has provided  I want him to know  I have carefully considered  these 
and taken them into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. This 
includes what he has said about  the relevant law, including the CCA. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have had regard to section  56 of the CCA 
and the liability  of BMWFS for the actions of the broker  in carrying out antecedent 
negotiations prior to Mr S entering  into the hire purchase agreement.  
Ref: DRN96767602For me the key question  here is whether it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to be able 
to walk away from the deal he agreed  initially. I have thought  about  his complaint 
points and I think they broadly cover two main  themes  what he was told by the 
broker leading up to entering into the finance  deal (antecedent negotiations), and his 
rights under the type of finance agreement. I will cover these in turn. 
Cancellation rights
Ive thought about whether the relevant provisions of the CCA allow Mr S to walk 
away from the agreement. In doing  so Ive had particular regard to sections 67 and 
69.
After doing so I believe that section  67 of the CCA  makes his hire purchase  
agreement one that is cancellable and note that it meets the criteria as follows:
the agreement  is a regulated consumer credit agreement that isnt secured on 
land or for the purchase of / in connection  with the purchase of land;
the unexecuted agreement was signed off trade premises  following initial  
discussions in the presence of the broker; and
the right of withdrawal  under section 66A of the CCA does not apply to this 
agreement due to the amount of credit  exceeding £60,260
The effect of this agreement being  cancellable is that Mr S can (within a specified  
cooling off period) notify the creditor (and its agents) that he wants to walk away from 
the finance agreement.  Under section  69 of the CCA this will bring the agreement to 
an end including  any linked  transaction (such as the supply agreement).
The evidence here shows that after Mr S visited the dealership the broker sent him 
the hire purchase  agreement by email which he then signed  and returned  on 27 
February 2018. I can see that Mr S then emailed  the broker on the 3 March 2018  
indicating that he wanted to end the agreement and enter a different deal.
The cooling  off period that would  be applicable here under section 68 of the CCA 
appears to be up until the end of the fifth day following the day on which  he received 
a copy and signed it. I can see that Mr S notified the broker  (as agent  of BMWFS) of 
his intention to cancel within this period.
I also note section 64 the CCA contains a requirement for a notice of cancellation 
rights to be included  with a cancellable  credit agreement. I cant  see that it was 
included in this case. The effect of this is to make  the agreement  improperly  
executed, which under section 65 of the CCA  means it is enforceable by order  of the 
court only.  
I cant make  a finding that the agreement is unenforceable, such  a determination 
would be for a court to make. However, I can determine whether I think  BMWFS 
acted reasonably when it failed to include a cancellation notice. And I dont think  it 
did.
Ref: DRN96767603But more  importantly, looking at what Mr S says about his right to cancel the 
agreement, I can decide whether I think BMWFS has acted fairly and reasonable in 
not allowing  him to cancel  the agreement as he wanted. And having  considered the 
provisions of the CCA on cancellation which make the agreement cancellable (and 
Mr S giving notice within  the correct  period) I think it would  be fair and reasonable to 
cancel the credit agreement and any linked  transaction (including the supply 
agreement). 
From what  I understand Mr S did not take delivery of the car from the dealership  so 
will not be responsible  for returning it to BMWFS. Mr S says that although he has not 
taken delivery of the car he has kept up the payments (and from what I have seen 
this appears to be the case). Because  he has not had any use of the car it would be 
fair for BMWFS to return any monthly payments made and the deposit  of £500 plus 
8% simple  yearly interest for the time he has been without the money.  I understand 
that the finance payments  also went towards  a GAP insurance  policy which should 
also be cancelled, as a linked transaction. 
Mr S says it has been difficult and stressful not being allowed to walk away  from the 
agreement and he has been kept in limbo using public transport and taxis to get 
around at a cost of almost £1,000. He also says he has occasionally borrowed 
another car. Because I am awarding  Mr S a refund of his monthly payments under 
the hire purchase  agreement I dont think it would be fair to give him back his other  
travel costs as well (as he wouldve had to pay travel costs each month regardless). 
However, I do recognise that finding  other ways to get around has not been ideal, 
and this has been going on for almost two years now. Had BMWFS allowed him to 
cancel the agreement earlier things wouldve been less stressful  and inconvenient for 
Mr S. Mr S says he spent  many hours  setting out his case  to bring to this service as 
well. We wouldnt  normally  award  compensation for the time he has spent  on his 
complaint but I do acknowledge  that this whole situation has caused him a notable 
degree of inconvenience and stress. So I think it should also pay him £400  for the 
stress and inconvenience caused.  
Mr S says he had to hire a lawyer at a cost of £2,430 to fight his case (he has 
provided information from his solicitor  to confirm this). We dont normally think people 
need to involve solicitors when  bringing a complaint to this service  but I can see that 
the complexities around his case made  him feel otherwise. I note that our process 
had not been exhausted when Mr S decided to instruct solicitors, so arguably  it 
wasnt necessary to do so. 
However, I also note that BMWFS did not recognise the applicable  provisions of 
section 67 of the CCA when he initially complained  to it. And it was only after our 
initial view on the matter  that Mr S considered the need to go to a lawyer who raised 
a point of law not otherwise discussed until this stage. So I think it would be fair if he 
does get a payment for his legal costs. As I have indicated above,  as our process 
had not been exhausted yet I think it would be fair to give him half of these in these 
particular circumstances.  
Ref: DRN96767604What the broker told Mr S
Mr S says that in order to persuade him to finance  the car the broker  said the price 
would go up if he didnt  agree to go ahead  with the purchase soon. But he then found 
out the deal wouldve been  cheaper if he waited.
I can see that Mr S was emailed by the broker after he visited them on 
Sunday 25 February 2018 (it appears he had visited on the Saturday too for a test 
drive). In one email dated that same day the salesperson says they are keen  to 
secure Mr S a deal on the car and that if he decides  by Monday it will allow  
paperwork to be processed in time to avoid the £940 increase from BMW that comes  
into play from 1.2.18.
From the evidence provided it appears  that the price  of the car increased  but a 
promotional event in March meant  that the finance  deals became more  attractive. So, 
Mr S would have overall saved money on his package if he waited. 
I am upholding  the complaint for other  reasons. Therefore, I dont consider it 
necessary to go into a lot of detail on this point.  However, for the sake  of 
completeness I will briefly  cover it.
I can of course understand why Mr S would be upset that a better deal came along 
shortly after he agreed  to his package. But based on what  Ive seen I dont think  he is 
fairly entitled to a different  deal or able to step away from the agreement because of 
what the broker told him leading up to him entering into the finance  deal. In summary:
I dont think what the broker told Mr S was incorrect  it appears to refer to the 
manufacturer increasing the price of the car in March and not BMWFS;
I dont think the broker  omitted  or hid information  about  the March  finance 
incentives - it denies knowing  about  these and they appear to have been 
communicated to it for the first time in a group memo to dealerships about an 
impulse deal dated 2 March 2018 (after the pre-sale communication  with 
Mr S); and
I agree  that taken  in isolation the communication to Mr S about  the increase  is 
arguably misleading and couldve  underlined that it was only referring to the 
list price of the car (and not the total cost of the finance package   which may 
or may not be affected by future  incentives). However even if I accepted  that 
the communication was misleading  I need  to consider how things might  
have been different  otherwise. And I dont think they likely wouldve been.  I 
think it is hard to say Mr S likely  wouldve acted differently. Finance 
deals/dealer contributions change over time and it is likely  consumers  would 
understand that by waiting you could gain or might lose out. It seems to me 
Mr S was ultimately  happy with the deal presented at the time. And he didnt 
know of what deals  might be on the horizon. So I think  hed likely  have  taken 
the deal, even if the communication  had been clearer 
 
Ref: DRN96767605Furthermore, I am not persuaded the broker put Mr S under undue  pressure to agree 
to the deal either. Although I can see the salesperson emailed him about closing the 
deal, at this stage he had already visited the dealer  twice and was no longer  on the 
premises when he made a final decision. So it appears he had more time and space 
to contemplate things.  I also think the content of the emails he has provided  look like 
normal sales practices to me rather than aggressive business practices. The 
language used does not come across as overly concerning. 
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint against BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited and direct it to:
cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
make  its own arrangements  for the collection of the car from the dealer  and 
ensure that Mr S has no further  liability in relation  to the original supply 
agreement and the GAP insurance  policy he took out at the same  time;
remove the hire purchase agreement  from his credit file;
refund  Mr S everything he has paid under the hire purchase agreement  to 
date including  the £500 deposit;
pay £1,215  towards  his legal costs;
pay Mr S 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds calculated from date of 
payment to date of settlement  (this includes the payment towards  his legal 
costs if he had already paid the bill at the time of settlement);
pay Mr S £400 compensation for the inconvenience and stress this situation 
has caused him; and
if BMWFS does not pay this £400  compensation for inconvenience and stress 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision 
then it must also pay 8% simple yearly  interest on this from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment 
I asked the parties  for their comments.  BMWFS said it agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr S said the provisional decision  was fair and reasonable. However,  he felt he should be 
awarded all of his legal expenses. In summary, he says:
he did nothing wrong, and BMWFS denied him his right to cancel so should bear the 
cost;
he decided to hire a lawyer because the broker had made misleading statements 
about his legal rights and caused a lot of confusion;
as his lawyers input effectively resolved the confusion about his legal rights it was 
right to hire them and the full costs are reasonable to recover
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue in dispute is the point about the legal costs. So I will deal with that now.
As an initial attempt  at mediation  I did ask if BMWFS was willing  to cover  the rest of Mr Ss 
legal costs  but it declined.  So I have  gone  on to reconsider  the matter.
Ref: DRN96767606My starting point is our service is a free alternative to court.  We dont consider parties need 
legal representation to bring a case. As I have already  said,  I can understand why Mr S 
chose to get advice in the particular circumstances. I have already considered  that he was 
given misleading  information about  his legal rights and not allowed to cancel when he should 
have been. And I also recognise it was only after our initial view on the matter  did Mr S 
consider the need to go to a lawyer who raised  a point  of law not otherwise discussed until 
this stage. However, I will repeat that we have a two stage  process and add that this service 
is not unfamiliar  with complex  legal analysis. There is always a possibility that after the 
informal stage an ombudsman will make a different decision or raise relevant  points  not yet 
covered. And I am confident the outcome at final decision  would have been the same here 
regardless of the legal  input presented by Mr Ss lawyers. But in any case  I also think  it fair 
to suggest the level of detailed written legal submissions Mr S obtained  were  not required to 
draw the ombudsmans attention to the relevant  section of the CCA for further  analysis.
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision (as copied 
above).
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited and direct it to:
cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
make  its own arrangements  for the collection of the car from the dealer  and ensure 
that Mr S has no further liability  in relation  to the original supply agreement  and the 
GAP insurance policy he took out at the same time;
remove the hire purchase agreement  from his credit file;
refund  Mr S everything he has paid under the hire purchase agreement  to date 
including the £500 deposit;
pay £1,215  towards  his legal costs;
pay Mr S 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds calculated from date of payment to 
date of settlement  (this includes the payment towards his legal costs  if he had 
already paid the bill at the time of settlement);
pay Mr S £400 compensation for the inconvenience and stress this situation has 
caused him; and
if BMWFS does not pay this £400  compensation for inconvenience and stress within  
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts  my final decision then it must 
also pay 8% simple  yearly interest  on this from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment  
If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9676760