K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold a Platinum packaged bank 
account to her in 2001 and a Gold account  which was opened  prior to this.
background
Prior to Mrs H bringing her complaint  to this service Lloyds refunded  Mrs H the account fees 
that she paid for the Gold account with interest in-line with our approach. So this decision is 
only looking  at the sale of Mrs Hs Platinum account.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mrs Hs complaint and didnt think  Lloyds had mis-sold  the 
Platinum account.  Mrs H disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  Lloyds      
mis-sold the Platinum account to Mrs H. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Mrs H has not said that she was unaware that she had a choice to take out the account. It 
seems more that she is complaining that she was recommended  an account  that was not 
appropriate for her given  her circumstances. Mrs H has though  said that at the time she took 
out the account her husband had recently  sadly passed away and she was incapable  of 
making an informed  choice to take out the account. I would first like to express my 
sympathies for what must have been a very difficult time. But it looks to me that the account  
was a reasonably  good fit for her circumstances (Ill go on to explain why). So looking at the 
wider circumstances  I do not think Lloyds suggesting that Mrs H take out this account  and 
Mrs H agreeing to this suggestion  is something  that was unreasonable or something that 
wouldve changed had the circumstances of the meeting been different.
She also says that Lloyds  shouldnt have allowed her to agree to a PBA,  due to her 
bereavement. However, I havent  been given any evidence demonstrating that Lloyds ought 
to have considered  that Mrs H was incapable  of managing and making decisions about her 
consent (such as a Power of Attorney or third party being given control of Mrs Hs account). 
Without that, it would  not be in any way reasonable for a financial business  to consider 
whether its customers should be allowed to make decisions.
Lloyds has said that it recommended  the Platinum account to Mrs H. This means that Lloyds had 
to make a fair recommendation to her, by taking adequate steps  to ensure that the selected 
account was a reasonable fit for her circumstances. Having thought about Mrs Hs wider 
circumstances and her actions since taking the account, I dont think  Lloyds recommending  the 
Platinum account  was unfair or inappropriate.  I think that Mrs H was potentially attracted to some 
of the benefits  and she couldve used  them. And it looks to me that the account  chosen was, on the 
whole, a reasonable match when  the benefits  Mrs H had a need for and may have wanted are 
taken into account.   
Ref: DRN98451642At the time that the Platinum account  was taken out it came with travel  insurance; 
comprehensive breakdown cover; an interest free overdraft  facility of £250  with a lower  
interest rate on balances  above this amount; and preferential rates on personal loans. And 
from what I can see Mrs H did drive; travelled abroad;  used  her overdraft; and took out 
personal loans.  So it does look as if the Platinum account was broadly a suitable 
recommendation.
Mrs H has explained that she had Pre Existing Medical Conditions (PEMC)  and she had 
her own breakdown cover. But all Lloyds could do in relation to the PEMCs was to tell Mrs H 
that she would need to contact the insurer to declare them and it does seems as if Mrs H did 
contact the insurer  on a couple  of occasions to query the cover (albeit sometime later).  I can 
also see that a claim  was attempted on this cover  and  this does suggests  that Mrs H was 
relying on the cover that came with the account.  She has also used the breakdown cover on 
7 occasions which suggests that Mrs H was relying on this cover as well. So I think  it was a 
reasonable fit for her circumstances at the times it was sold. 
Overall and having carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this case, including  Mrs Hs 
particular circumstances,  Ive not seen anything  to suggest that the recommendation of the 
Platinum account  was unfair or inappropriate.  
Im open  to the possibility Mrs H may not have been told about  all of the significant features and 
exclusions on all of the insurance benefits.  But I cant see anything specific that she was not told 
that I think wouldve  altered her decision to take out the account.  And so I dont  think  that clearer  
information wouldve  stopped her taking  the account in the first place. 
Mrs H may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe  that she hasnt benefitted  from the account 
as much as shed hoped and expected to when she initially took it. And given what she may have 
read or heard about packaged bank accounts in general, I can to some extent understand why she 
might now think  her account was mis-sold. But overall I think Mrs H chose to accept what, on the 
face of things, appears to be a reasonable recommendation made by Lloyds. So having thought 
about everything provided and listened to what  Mrs H has said, I dont think  that Lloyds  mis-sold  
the Platinum account to her in 2001.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9845164