K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited.
background
In November 2017 Mr N was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with Startline. At the point of supply the car was 6 years old and had covered 55,527  miles.
In September  2018 Mr N experienced  issues with the timing  chain. He contacted Startline  
and reported that the timing chain was loose, the engine management light was illuminated, 
the oil pressure was low and the car was losing coolant.
Startline arranged for an independent  inspection of the car. The engineer identified a 
chattering noise  coming from the engine  but said that the fault with the timing chain wasnt  
present or developing at the point  of supply. Based on the findings of the independent 
inspection, Startline rejected Mr Ns complaint and said it wouldnt  contribute towards repair  
costs.
Mr N wasnt happy with the response. He said hed returned the car to the supplying dealer  
during the first 6 months for various  issues, one of which was a chattering noise coming from 
the engine. He felt that the independent engineer hadnt been provided with all of the 
relevant information.
Mr N has since  paid for repairs  to the car totalling £1374.50. He wants  Startline to reimburse 
these.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt that there was a durability issue  in relation to 
the timing chain failing at a level of mileage which a timing  chain  wouldnt  normally  be 
expected to fail at. She said Startline should reimburse the repair  costs.
Startline didnt agree. It said it hadnt  seen any evidence that Mr N had returned the car to 
the supplying  dealer  in the first 6 months. It also said that a timing  chain should be replaced  
at 40,000  60,000 miles as part of the general maintenance of the car and that the fault had 
occurred as result of wear  and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Startline  has supplied  the car under  a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car, the 
price paid, safety and durability.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put tings right.  After  6 months, its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN96153612Mr N and Startline disagree  about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order 
to reach  a decision I need to look at the available evidence  and determine,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr N has said that he first noticed a chattering noise  coming  from the engine  in January 
2018. I havent seen any evidence to show that he reported this to the garage at the time.  
However, I can see from tan email which Mr N sent to the garage in May 2018 that he was 
experiencing issues with the timing chain. Based on this Im satisfied that the fault arose  
within the first 6 months. Theres a presumption that a fault arising in the first 6 months was 
present or developing at the point  of supply unless the business can show otherwise. 
Ive looked at the independent report obtained  by Startline. This says the timing  chain  fault 
was caused by wear  and tear.
Ive also taken into account the comments made by the repairing garage.  It has said that the 
timing chain isnt a serviceable item and that it should last the lifetime  of the engine.
Startline has said that a timing chain should  be replaced at 40,000-60,000  miles.  From  my 
own research, I can see that a timing belt is a serviceable item, but a timing  chain  isnt. A 
timing chain should last the lifetime of the engine.
Theres no dispute that theres  a fault with the timing chain. Based on the information  Ive 
seen, I dont think a timing chain should fail at 65,000 miles. Im of the view that the timing  
chain wasnt durable,  which  means the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality. 
Im also persuaded  based on Mr Ns email to the garage that the fault with the timing chain 
arose within the first 6 months. I dont  think the independent report is sufficient to rebut the 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.  The report refers  
to the timing chain requiring replacement due to wear and tear. This is contrary to the 
opinion expressed  by the garage and contrary to information widely available on the internet 
regarding the lifespan of a timing chain. I dont find the independent  report  persuasive.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Startline is responsible for putting things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Startline Motor  Finance Limited  must:
Reimburse Mr N £1374.50 for repairs
Pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9615361