K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that MCE Insurance Company  Limited  didnt offer him a fair settlement on 
his motor insurance following the theft of his motorbike.
background
Mr N insured his bike with MCE. The bike was unfortunately  stolen and so Mr N made a 
claim on his insurance. MCE assessed  the claim and offered £950.
MCE said the offer was based on the valuation offered by one of the motor industry valuation 
guides. The other didnt value bikes of this age  Mr Ns bike was 20 years old  and so it 
only had one valuation  to go on, so that was the figure it offered.
Mr N wasnt happy with that. He said he wouldnt be able to replace his bike for that amount. 
He said his was a classic  bike in very good  condition. Hed looked  after it well and had 
recently been offered £2,000 for it if he wanted  to sell. That was what he thought would be a 
fair valuation.
Our investigator noted that only one valuation  guide  offered a figure for Mr Ns bike,  and that 
guide said the valuation might not be accurate. She looked at the evidence Mr N had 
provided, as well as other evidence shed been  able to find herself, and thought  £2,000 was 
a fair valuation.
MCE didnt accept that. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It said it was fair 
 and in line with our approach  for it to rely on one guide where only one had a valuation. It 
didnt think the evidence the investigator  had found  was likely to be reliable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy  says that in the event of theft,  MCE will offer him the current  market value of 
his bike. It says the valuation is to be determined  based on
a number  of factors, including but not limited  to valuations provided by published  
buyers guides available in the market place, independent  engineers reports, your 
estimate of value, the vehicle service history, the number of keys available for the 
vehicle, whether the V5 document  is up to date, and whether there is a current  MOT 
certificate.
Although the policy says it will consider a number of factors, including but not limited  to those 
set out above,  MCE in fact only considered the guides  and only one of those was able to 
produce a figure.
In most cases, we take the view that the guides are a reliable and reasonable way of 
estimating the value  of a vehicle. 
However, that isnt always the case  and in my view this is one such  case. I say that 
because only one guide was able to offer a figure  at all; the others simply  dont value bikes  
this old. The guide  that did produce a figure  expressed reservations  about its reliability. And 
Ref: DRN97373112the figure that MCE relied on and offered Mr N wasnt in any case an exact match for his 
bike; it was for a different year. Although that wouldnt make  a huge difference to the value, it 
does show the difficulty of using the guides for this bike.
The investigator found specialist bike dealers online who estimated a value.  And she found a 
series of concluded sales  not adverts for sale, which tend to overstate a value which  is 
then negotiated down, but concluded  sales. None of these were identical to Mr Ns bike 
either. But they were  the same model, and of similar  age and mileage. I think  this is good 
evidence that suggests the guide  figure may be, in this case, an underestimate.
Valuing a vehicle isnt a precise science. It can only ever be an estimate based on the 
available evidence. Looking  at all the evidence in this case  in the round, I think  the figure  
produced by the guide and relied  on by MCE is likely to be an underestimate. The policy 
says MCE should  consider  a range of factors  but despite this being an old and specialist 
bike, outside the general scope of the guides, it didnt do that. Overall, Im satisfied that 
£2,000 is a reasonable estimate  of the value  of Mr Ns bike at the time it was stolen. Thats  
the figure I think MCE should pay  together with interest because of the delay.
Mr N also complained about the handling  of his claim.  Other than the amount offered itself, I 
think MCE dealt with it reasonably. It offered reasonable customer  service and offered Mr N 
a valuation relatively quickly. So I dont uphold the complaint about customer service.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct MCE 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr N £2,000,  less the policy excess, in settlement of his 
claim. It should add simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of its original offer to 
the date of settlement.
If MCE considers it should deduct  income  tax from the interest element of my award, it may 
do so but should give Mr N the necessary certificate,  if he asks for it, so that he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if hes entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9737311