K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr and Ms B 
say Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them the policy.
background
Mr and Ms B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. They  paid a monthly  amount for 
the policy. The policy wouldve paid a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if Mr B couldnt 
work due to an accident, sickness  or involuntary unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
BoS hasnt been able to show  us any of the original paperwork from the time of the sale.        
I dont find this surprising  as the sale took place so long ago and the mortgage was 
redeemed over ten years ago. But where there is limited information, Ill make  my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account  the evidence available,  
what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The mortgage was arranged and the PPI sold during a meeting. BoS has told us that its 
representative shouldve  advised Mr and Ms B to take out the PPI to protect their mortgage.  
From what  we know of how this type of policy was sold I think  its likely  there  wouldve been  
some discussion  of the cover. Its unlikely the PPI couldve been set up without Mr B signing 
some form of application for it. And the PPI policy was in force  for several years and the 
premiums wouldve probably  appeared on their mortgage statements or been taken from 
their bank account. So if Mr and Ms B hadnt asked  for the policy  or didnt want the cover  Id 
expect them to have  questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen  any evidence that they 
did. 
Taking all this into account, I think its most likely  BoS made  Mr and Ms B were aware of the 
policy and that it was optional and they chose to take it out. Although I can understand why 
Mr and Ms B wouldnt recall this after so many years.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms B so it had to check that the policy  was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time I think  it was.
Mr B was the person covered by the policy. Mr and Ms Bs representative has told us he was 
the only wage-earner so it was appropriate  the policy covered him only.
Mr B wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  so he couldve 
made a successful claim if he had needed to.
Ref: DRN91292502Mr B has told us he enjoyed a good level of sick pay benefit from his employer. But this 
particular PPI policy couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if he became too 
unwell to work or lost his job. And it would pay the benefit on top of any sick pay. The benefit  
could also have paid out for longer than his full sick pay would last. So despite his work 
benefits I still think Mr B would have found  the policy useful if he became unwell, particularly 
if he couldnt work for an extended period.
The policy would also mean Mr B could use any savings or redundancy pay towards other 
living costs  if things  went wrong.
I dont know what information about  the policy Mr and Ms B were  given  at the time. So its 
possible the information BoS gave  them wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been.  But I think  they 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would 
have been useful for Mr and Ms B if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the policy. 
In summary  I think its most likely  BoS made  it clear  the policy  was optional and Mr and Ms B 
chose to take it out. Mr and Ms B seem to have had a need for the cover  and the policy 
looks to have been right for them. So even if BoS had given them all the information  it 
shouldve, I still think they wouldve  bought  the PPI policy.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9129250