K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold him the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
BoS has provided us with a copy of the credit card application and agreement that Mr S 
signed at the time of sale. On this document there  was a section called Product Details , 
below which read the following: If you want to take advantage of these  services  please mark 
the relevant boxes. One of the services was PPI. And in the box next to PPI there is an X. 
The X looks like it was computer generated just like Mr Ss personal information. So it is, in 
my view, the likely  result  of a conversation between both parties as theres nothing 
persuasive to suggest otherwise. Whats more,  as it looks like he signed the agreement  for 
the credit  card with the arguably  noticeable  addition of PPI alongside  it, I find it hard to argue 
that he didnt agree to take the policy. And as Mr S says he cant  remember  where the sale 
took place, there isnt the evidence to say he only agreed because he had to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr S  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, I think that it was right for him 
overall. He doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover in such a way that persuades me the recommendation was unsuitable.  And based on 
what hes told us about his financial circumstances, he seems to have had a need for the 
cover.
I know Mr S was entitled to some  sick pay from his employer. But he was taking on a new 
financial commitment  the repayments on which would have been important to maintain in 
the event he found himself  out of or unable to work. And as the policy  would have helped  
him to keep  up with his repayments over a reasonably significant  period of time instead of 
having to rely on his sick pay, which he could have used elsewhere while it lasted, Im not 
persuaded it made BoSs recommendation unsuitable.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr S clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I dont think the policy was an unsuitable  
recommendation to have  made, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
him off taking it out as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
Ref: DRN92595432This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr S paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give him back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what  Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Unless BoS has already  paid Mr S, it will make  the necessary  arrangements  now that Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9259543