K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains Canada Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in July 2004. The policy was 
added to Ms Ms credit card account  when  she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Ms M disagreed.
She said, in summary,  that she didnt know PPI had been added to her credit card. She 
noticed the premiums  on her statements, but didnt question it as she didnt realise the PPI 
was optional.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint because:
I think  Canada Square Operations  made  Ms M aware that the PPI was optional  and a 
separate product from the credit card, and that she chose to take it. I say this because 
the online application  process included  equally  clear options to accept or decline the PPI 
and Ms M clicked the yes box to confirm that she wanted  it. Im not surprised Ms M 
cant remember this as it took place so long ago.
Canada Square Operations  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check  
if it was suitable  for her. 
Its possible  the information Canada Square  Operations gave Ms M about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Ms M chose to take out the policy  and so 
appears to have wanted  this type of cover.  She wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So 
I think it unlikely Ms M would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance  I think  she would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9063347