K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that it was unreasonable for TFS Loans Limited to accept him as guarantor 
for two loans  taken  out by his son.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2021.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. TFS has not 
provided us with anything further. Mr C provided us with some comments. Although  I am 
only summarising here what Mr C has said, I have considered his entire responses carefully 
before writing this decision.
Mr C has said that the doesnt  agree with my decision. He says that TFS failed to make  
adequate checks  before it agreed to him becoming  a guarantor. He says that he didnt sign 
any agreement in relation to the second loan, and that he told the lender that hed only be 
able to make  one or two repayments  if needed. He says that meeting the repayments  on the 
loans has caused  him significant difficulties.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
that I should change my provisional conclusions. But I would like to comment  further on the 
points that Mr C has raised.
TFS has sent us the Guarantee  and Indemnity agreements that Mr C signed  for each loan. 
Whilst I accept  that the signatures are electronic, that isnt unusual. And Ive listened to 
telephone conversations  between Mr C and TFS where he agreed that he had signed the 
agreements, wasnt under any pressure to do so, and had read them carefully. TFS carefully 
explained that Mr C might become liable for all the repayments on the loan  there was no 
agreement that Mr C might only need to make a limited number of the payments.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont think the checks TFS did before accepting  Mr C 
as the guarantor were  enough. But I dont think that better checks  would have resulted in his 
application being declined. So I cant say that TFS was wrong in allowing Mr C to guarantee 
the two loans. It follows that I dont think the complaint  should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN99479632my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against TFS Loans Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99479633EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complains that it was unreasonable for TFS Loans  Limited to accept him as guarantor  for two 
loans taken out by his son.
background
Mr C was accepted by TFS as guarantor  for two loans taken by his son in 2014.  His son borrowed 
£3,500 in February 2014,  and refinanced that loan, including taking some additional borrowing,  with a 
loan of £7,500 in December  2014. The two loans were repayable over three and four years  
respectively.
Mr C signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect  of both loans. That mean  that, should 
his son be unable or unwilling to make the required repayments  TFS could seek  repayment from 
Mr C. I understand  that Mr C made one repayment on the first loan and has been making regular  
repayments on the second  loan.
In this decision I will not be considering whether it was reasonable for TFS to give either loan to 
Mr Cs son. That is a matter between Mr Cs son and the lender. I will only be considering whether it 
was reasonable for TFS to accept Mr C as guarantor for the loans.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think the checks TFS had 
done before accepting Mr C as a guarantor had been sufficient. And he thought  that better  checks  
would have led to the lender  concluding it was unlikely  that Mr C could sustainably afford the loan 
repayments should he be required to as guarantor. So he asked TFS to pay Mr C some 
compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to complaints of this nature on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS added Mr C as a guarantor required it to carry  out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  he could afford  to repay  what was owed in a 
sustainable manner  should he be required to do so. This assessment is sometimes referred  to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think  about  whether  repaying the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this meant that 
TFS had to ensure that making the repayments  wouldnt  cause Mr C undue  difficulty or adverse  
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply  think  about  the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are guaranteeing. 
Ref: DRN99479634In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a guarantor might be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of guarantor  vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr C acting as guarantor.
TFS gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed to him acting as guarantor on the first 
loan. It asked him for details of his income, and it checked  his credit file to assess how much he was 
repaying to other  creditors.
The credit  report didnt show that Mr C had struggled to make repayments in the past. It showed he 
had an outstanding loan.  But most importantly it also showed that his credit card balance had recently  
exceeded its credit limit  it had also exceeded its limit for the first six months of the previous year,  
before being brought just under the limit more recently. I think that prolonged credit card balance 
should have caused some  concerns to TFS.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He might be required  to make monthly 
repayments for a period of three years. So given what  I have said above about the credit check 
results I would expect that TFS would  want to gather,  and independently  check, some  detailed 
information about Mr Cs financial circumstances  before it agreed to accept him as a guarantor. I dont 
think that the checks  it did were enough. I think it would  have been proportionate for TFS to 
independently check the true state  of Mr Cs finances before adding  him as guarantor  to the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks TFS did were  sufficient, that in itself doesnt mean  that Mr Cs 
complaint should succeed.  Id also need  to be persuaded that what I consider  to be proportionate 
checks would have shown  TFS that Mr C couldnt sustainably afford  the repayments if he were 
required to make  them.  So Ive looked at Mr Cs bank statements, and what  hes told us about his 
financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown TFS.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS should  
have carried out. I do think TFS needed evidence  to corroborate what Mr C said was happening with 
his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that although  there are of 
course many other ways  that level of detail  could be established. But I think  that by looking at Mr Cs 
bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
I dont think the evidence from Mr Cs bank statements would have suggested  that he would face 
problems repaying the loan from TFS in a sustainable manner if he was required to do so. His bank 
statements dont show evidence of serious financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions  or 
escalating levels of overdraft  or other  debt. It is true that Mr Cs bank account was regularly 
overdrawn. But as I said earlier, his overdraft  wasnt escalating. That would suggest  he was able to 
live within the income he was receiving. His committed regular expenditure  wasnt at such  a level that 
I think  it would be reasonable to conclude he wouldnt be able to afford  the loan repayments. So 
I dont currently think that what I consider to be proportionate checks  should  have led TFS to not 
accept Mr Cs as guarantor for the loan.
Ref: DRN99479635And I think the same applies when Mr Cs son asked to refinance  the loan later that year. Mr Cs 
credit file still showed that he was using his credit card at, or just above,  the agreed credit limit. But it 
didnt show any evidence that he had failed  to make  the payments  that were contractually due on the 
card. A further loan now showed on the credit file that hadnt  been reported earlier in the year, but 
once again Mr C appeared  to be managing his repayments without problems.
Looking at Mr Cs bank statements from that time shows that he had managed to reduce the level of 
his overdraft  over the previous ten months. It was now generally  around half of what  it had been when  
the first loan was reviewed. So I think that would have given TFS additional  confidence that Mr C had 
some disposable income that could be used to make the higher repayments on the new loan if he was 
required to.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Mr C. But, in summary, although  I dont think 
the checks  TFS did before agreeing to accept him as guarantor were proportionate, I dont currently  
think better checks should have led to that application being declined.  So I dont currently think  this 
complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN9947963