K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that a recovery agent caused further damage to his car when he
claimed under his vehicle rescue policy. Hes unhappy with the amount Ageas  Insurance
Limited offered  to repair his car.
All reference to Ageas  in my decision includes its agents.
background
In June 2018 Mr S called for recovery. The recovery agent accepted he caused  damage to
Mr Ss car while moving it onto a tow truck.
Mr S provided three separate estimates for the repairs along  with photos of his cars damage
to Ageas.  Mr S said that a tyre, a gas pipe and the rear bumper had been damaged.  He
provided estimates for:
a: £100 including VAT and labour to replace the gas pipe and filler bracket  to rear 
bumper,
b: £379.06 including VAT for the price of a replacement rear bumper  + £30 for a clips 
fitting kit,
c: £570 excluding  VAT for labour, paints and materials  but no parts  and;
d: Mr S said it would  cost £75 to replace  the damaged tyre.
In August  2018  Ageas agreed to pay £100 for the costs under estimate a.
Mr S didnt agree. In September  2019 Ageas agreed to pay £584.06 toward  the costs  of
repairs. Mr S understood this to be a breakdown of a, b and d as these estimates total the
same. Ageas  said it would  consider the costs  of repairing cosmetic damage to the bumper.
Mr S said this wasnt enough as it didnt include  the costs to pay for the replacement  bumper
to be fitted. He wanted Ageas to cover the £570 estimate for labour. Paints and materials
provided.
Ageas didnt agree and so Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the
estimates Mr S had provided  werent  detailed enough  and so she thought Ageas had acted
reasonably.
Mr S provided a further estimate e: to fit and paint a replacement bumper for £573 including
VAT.
The investigator thought Ageas should cover repair costs of £703.  This was for a: £100, b:
£30 only for the clips fitting kit and e: £573  (e).
Ageas agreed. Mr S didnt  agree.  He said it doesnt  cover the full repair  costs.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2020. I thought  Ageas  should do more  to put Mr S 
back in the position he would have  been  in had his car not been damaged by the recovery 
agent. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  So my recommendations remain  the same 
and are set out below.  
Ref: DRN92460032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
We asked Ageas to provide a breakdown of the costs it agreed to cover  at £584.06. In reply
it said it didnt agree all of the damage Mr S claimed  for was caused by the recovery agent.
The agents  report  said:
I damaged  rear gas pipe that hangs down below bumper and was not advised about
it by customer, slope off drive angle and angle of bed. photo  taken  and it lifted rear
bumper as shown,  all other damage around  vehicle was there  before. 
Mr S provided photos of the damage  to his car to Ageas. Hes explained that the bumper is
being held together by screws. The dealership  garage that he got a quote for a replacement
bumper from told him it would need replacing. Due to the bumper being  lifted, the seal has
come away.
Estimate e: doesnt  include  the costs of the replacement bumper part. So when the
investigator recommended Ageas cover  these costs, I think this was on the basis that it did.
This is an error on our part for which I apologised in my provisional decision.
Its not clear enough as to what damage  Ageas believes the recovery  agent isnt responsible
for. But I think Ageas agreed in September 2019  to cover all repair costs excluding  labour to
fit a replacement bumper.  I think this is unfair as this is a cost Mr S would have always  had
to pay. And as the damage was caused by Ageas agent, I think  it should cover  labour costs
as well as the cost for the replacement parts, which it agreed  to.
I think with the addition of estimate e: Mr S has provided sufficient information to support  his
claim.
I think Ageas  should cover the labour and paint costs to replace  the bumper part in addition
to the agreed  costs  of £703.  So I intend to ask Ageas to cover  the repair costs under a:
£100, b: £409.06, d: £75 and e: £573. This comes  to a total of £1,157.06.
Mr S said hes unhappy  with the length of time its taken for Ageas to deal with his claim and
wants compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
I think Ageas  could have  handled the claim better. Mr S provided estimates  a: to d: promptly.
But Ageas only agreed  to cover one of the estimates  in August 2018. I cant  see that Ageas
clearly explained  what or why it agreed  to cover  part of the repair  costs  to Mr S.
Over a year later it agreed to cover  all of the costs  for parts  but only the labour  costs to fit the
gas pipe. I think Mr S could have obtained  a more detailed estimate sooner for Ageas to
consider if Ageas had clearly explained what work  it accepted responsibility for and why.
There were periods of delay while Ageas  waited  for a reply  from the recovery  agent,
particularly from November 2018 to April 2019, and April 2019 to September  2019 when
Mr S asked for further information and was waiting for an update.
So I think Ageas  should  pay Mr S compensation of £200 for the distress  and inconvenience
it caused him.
Ref: DRN92460033Mr S said he wants Ageas  to cover  the costs  of a replacement car while  his car is being
repaired. I think Ageas should reimburse Mr S the equivalent of the costs  of a basic courtesy
car subject  to proof of payment by Mr S for the duration of repairs.  If Ageas can arrange  this
at a more competitive price for Mr S, I think it should  do this.
I think this puts Mr S back in the position  he would  have  been in had his car not been
damaged by the recovery agent.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
 Reimburse  Mr S for the costs under estimates a, b, d and e. subject  to proof  of
  payment.
 Either  reimburse  Mr S for the costs  of a basic courtesy car for the duration of
  repairs subject to proof of payment or arrange  a basic courtesy car for him
  directly.
 Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9246003