K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix). Hes unhappy Phoenix 
says a Market Value  Reduction (MVR) will be applied to his Personal Pension Policy  (PPP) if 
he transfers to another provider before age 65.
background
Mr Ls PPP was originally  taken out in July 1989.
In October  2018 Mr L says he understood his PPP fund value to be £64,643.28. But Mr Ls 
financial adviser later informed him that the transfer  value would only be £48,966.98  
because of an MVR Phoenix would apply if Mr L transferred  away from it before age 65.
Concerned by what he was told, Mr L wrote to Phoenix to complain. In summary he said:
he felt the MVR and the difference it made  to his transfer value was unreasonable
he didnt recall being made aware  of the MVR or its implications when  he originally 
took out his PPP
the MVR seemed  extremely  restrictive  and was locking his money into a fund less 
optimal compared to others available
hed been  able to move similar products from one provider to another without any 
penalty being imposed  and couldnt understand why Phoenix was so markedly 
different in this respect
it was grossly unfair he was having  to stay with Phoenix against his will
he wanted Phoenix to reconsider  its position  on the MVR
Phoenix responded to Mr L and in summary said:
Mr Ls PPP was partly  invested  in its unitised  with profit  fund and the applicable 
terms and conditions  stated an MVR might apply if a customer  cashed-in their plan, 
started taking benefits, transferred to another  company or switched from the unitised 
with profits fund into another fund before age 65
an MVR was applied before reaching retirement  or on transfer to ensure the 
surrender/transfer value wasnt unfairly  higher  than the PPPs share of the 
underlying value of the funds assets and to ensure the interests of remaining with-
profit policyholders were protected
full details of when  an MVR might apply were in PPP documentation Mr L wouldve 
been given when he took out his policy
it was sorry Mr L felt the MVR was restrictive but reminded him that he did still have 
the right to transfer his pension to another provider  
while Mr L remained invested in the unitised  with profit  fund his accumulation units  
had a guaranteed growth rate of 4% per annum up to retirement
Unhappy with Phoenixs response  Mr L referred his complaint  to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
Phoenixs terms and conditions were clear  and allowed it to apply an MVR in certain 
circumstances 
the MVR was applied at the discretion of the scheme actuary  and wasnt something 
that was uncommon 
Ref: DRN94363562he didnt think Phoenix was acting unfairly
Mr L responded and disagreed with our investigator. He said he still felt Phoenixs  MVR was 
unfairly restrictive. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. 
Based on what Mr Ls said I can understand why hes unhappy about the MVR Phoenix says 
it will apply if he transfers to another  provider before age 65. 
Mr L would  like to transfer his PPP to a better  performing provider so his money is invested 
somewhere he considers  more optimal.  And hed like to be able to do this without the 
application of the MVR which he believes to be excessive. 
I think its entirely reasonable for Mr L to want his PPP to achieve the best returns possible. 
But I must also have regard for the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ls PPP which  hed 
have agreed to when he originally took it out. 
Mr Ls PPP terms and conditions allow for the transfer of his PPP to another  provider before 
age 65. But they also make provision  for Phoenix to apply an MVR if Mr L decides to do this. 
Specifically the provisions state:
At any time during the currency of this policy before the pension  date,  the member shall 
have the option to instruct [Phoenix]  to pay the value of the accrued benefits under this 
policy to another  authorised pension provider () 
If the member has not attained the age of 65 at the date of cancellation the value of any 
cancelled units in the with-profit fund will be determined by the Actuary and a deduction as 
determined by the Actuary  will be made  ()
At the relevant pension date the allocation of units in respect  of Protected Rights and/or 
Other Rights  will be cancelled  and their value will be calculated  at the bid price  applicable  on 
the pension date, with the following adjustments:-
(i)if the member has not attained the age of sixty five at the date of cancellation  the 
value of any cancelled units in the with-profit fund will be determined by the 
Actuary ().
Im satisfied that under Mr Ls policy terms and conditions Phoenix  is entitled to apply an 
MVR if, as may be the case  here, Mr L decides  to transfer his funds to another  provider 
before the age of 65. 
Ref: DRN94363563The reduction of the bid price  of any units held in the with-profit fund if benefits are taken or 
transferred elsewhere  prior to 65 is not an unusual condition in policies which  are invested in 
a with-profits fund.  And it is often referred to as a market value adjustment (MVA) as well as 
an MVR. 
I understand Mr L doesnt consider the MVR to be fair but its designed to protect investors  
who arent taking their money out and its application  means  an investor  gets their fair share  
of the with-profits fund in which their funds are invested. This takes into account not only 
investment returns but also mortality,  maturity payments and surrenders and withdrawals.
Phoenix is entitled to use its commercial  judgement  to decide when and how to apply an 
MVR to withdrawals from its with-profit fund. However the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  does have measures to ensure with-profit  funds are properly 
managed and to explain  how they are managed. 
The regulator requires  all with-profit providers provide  a publicly available document  setting  
out how they manage their with-profit business.  This document is called the Principles and 
Practices of Financial Management (PPFM). A copy of this is available on Phoenixs  
website. There is also a Q&A document which explains  in simple language  how it operates,  
including how Phoenix determines pay-out values and its overall investment strategy. It also 
covers why there is on occasion the need to apply a MVR.
The PPFM is overseen directly by the regulator,  which has the ability to audit the decisions 
made by Phoenixs  actuaries when applying  MVRs. The actuaries are charged with 
preserving the integrity of the overall  fund for policyholders. If a large number of 
policyholders elect  to withdraw from the fund early,  even if recent investment returns have 
been reasonable, this may destabilise  the fund if in the past, the underlying investment 
returns had been  lower than the bonuses declared.  There could be a risk that those 
policyholders might  receive  more than their fair share of the investment returns within  the 
fund, and so the application of an MVR redresses the balance  to ensure they receive  the fair 
value for their investment and remaining policyholders are not penalised.   
It is also a regulatory  requirement that Phoenix  has an independent with-profit fund 
committee in place  to protect the interest  of the with-profit policyholders. 
Im not aware that the regulator has concerns about how Phoenix  manages its with-profit  
fund.
Whilst I appreciate Mr L considers the MVR to be unfair I am satisfied the application of it is 
a commercial decision Phoenix is entitled  to make.
I understand Mr L feels the MVR is too high, but its for Phoenixs actuaries determine the 
scale of this- its also a matter for Phoenixs  commercial judgment.  Phoenix also reserved 
the right to apply a MVR at the outset  of Mr Ls PPP.
Ref: DRN94363564Mr L says he has no recollection of ever being made  aware of the MVR applicable  to his 
PPP. Given how long ago Mr L took out his PPP I dont  think this is surprising. I wouldnt 
expect him to recall  all of the information  he was provided with almost thirty years  ago. 
However Ive considered  the original documentation  Mr L wouldve been provided with at the 
time and Im satisfied the circumstances in which an MVR could be applied  were clearly 
outlined. 
Im also mindful that Phoenix didnt sell Mr Ls PPP. It was sold by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA). And it wouldve been  their responsibility to ensure  the policy was suitable for 
Mr L and that he fully understood the basis on which  it would operate.  
Phoenix has continued to bring  the possibility  of an MVR being applied  to Mr Ls (and his 
financial advisors) attention over the years  and made no attempt to hide that possibility from 
him, should he choose to transfer  his plan before age 65. Mr Ls annual  statements 
repeatedly confirmed the potential application  of an MVR.  
I understand Mr L may be disappointed with my decision. And I dont doubt his strength of 
feeling or sincerity  in referring his complaint to this service. But for the reasons Ive explained 
Im unable to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest Phoenix  has acted other  than in accordance  with the 
terms of its contract with Mr L. Nor can I say that it has treated him unfairly. It remains  that 
Mr L has the option to wait until he reaches age 65 before he transfers to another provider, 
and in doing so he avoid  an MVR being applied to his PPP.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9436356