K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about a payday  loan (and top-ups) Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as 
Quick Quid) provided to him in September 2018.  For reasons  Ill explain in more detail 
further on in this decision, Mr C is being represented in his complaint by his mother Mrs C.
Mrs C has said that Quick  Quid shouldnt  have provided this loan and the additional  top-ups  
to Mr C because it knew that he was suffering from a mental health illness.  And so it ought to 
have realised that he wouldnt be able to repay any loans.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 25 January 2019, which forms part of this final decision.  In 
my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I invited both 
parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision.  
Following this, Quick Quid said:
it was prepared to settle the complaint in the way I suggested in my provisional 
decision;
it apologised for the manner  in which Mr Cs case was handled;
it would  revisit its policies, procedures and training  with respect  to how it handled 
circumstances of mental health and mental incapacity claims going forward.
Mrs C, on behalf on Mr C, also responded. She asked  me to reconsider my direction that 
Quick Quid should  record that a balance  was written off on Mr Cs loan.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Quick Quid has accepted  the findings that I reached in my provisional 
decision. And given  the concerns articulated in my provisional decision,  Im also pleased that 
Quick Quid has acknowledged  its shortcomings and that it intends to revisit its policies, 
procedures and training to ensure that it learns  from what, it accepts, clearly went  wrong  
here.
I now turn to Mrs Cs points regarding Mr Cs credit file. I want to say that, when considering  
my provisional decision, I was mindful  of the concerns Mrs C has regarding the impact on   
Mr Cs ability  to obtain credit in the future  should it be recorded that a balance was written off 
on Mr Cs loan. But I have, in any event,  carefully thought again about everything Mrs C has 
said.    
It might help for me to start by explaining that where  I find a business has done  something 
wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the 
consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, 
in this case, this would mean Quick Quid putting  Mr C in the position  hed now be in if he 
hadnt been given loan nine.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr C 
was given loan nine and he used the funds. So, in these circumstances, I cant  undo whats 
already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mr C back  in the actual position  he 
Ref: DRN93114662would be in if he hadnt been given  this loan in the first place. And to reflect  this, in most 
instances, where we uphold  a complaint about  irresponsible lending wed usually say that its 
fair for the borrower  to pay back any funds they actually received, while its fair for the lender 
to refund any interest and charges they received for the loans they unfairly provided. 
In these circumstances, any adverse information wed tell a lender to remove would typically  
be to reflect  the impact of the interest  and charges  added  to the account  as thats  what 
were asking the lender to repay or remove the effect of. 
In Mr Cs case, I concluded that Quick Quid lending to him in the circumstances that it did 
warranted departing from our usual approach. I thought that Quick Quid should write off the 
entire remaining balance  on Mr Cs loan.  The vast majority of this was made up of the £1500 
Mr C was initially given. As Ive asked Quick  Quid  to do this, removing any adverse 
information here would require it to record that Mr Cs loan was repaid on time. And I think  
that it would  be unfair  to Quick Quid and Mr C, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate  if I 
asked Quick Quid to amend  Mr Cs credit  file in this way  as that doesnt reflect what 
actually happened, or will happen here.
So while I accept the argument Mrs C has made,  I remain of the view that telling Quick  Quid 
to amend Mr Cs credit  file and record that this loan was repaid wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.  By asking Quick Quid to remove any 
adverse information,  Id be asking it to record inaccurate information and telling it to record 
that this loan was paid on time. I think that this wholly inaccurate information  would  increase  
the chances of Mr C being  able to access further funds. 
Equally, as I explained  in my provisional  decision, the basis  for Mr Cs complaint was and is 
that he shouldnt  have been lent to because doing  so would cause him harm. I accepted that 
this was the case and thats  why I upheld Mr Cs complaint. Mr C (as well as Mrs C on his 
behalf) has made it categorically clear that being given more loans would worsen his 
financial position and consequently his mental  health condition. And I have borne this in 
mind when thinking about the fairest way to put things right.
In making my decision, Ive accepted Mr C wasnt in a position to manage his financial 
affairs. It would be unreasonable for me to depart from this conclusion in terms of Mr Cs 
affairs going  forward   especially in circumstances where Im issuing  a decision a mere  
matter of months after the period  of time Ive accepted Mr C wasnt in a position to manage 
his affairs. 
Having carefully thought  about everything, I remain of the view that doing  this would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Cs best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So having  carefully thought about  everything, including the points in Mrs Cs response to my 
provisional decision, Im still not going  to ask Quick Quid to amend Mr Cs credit file. This 
means that Quick Quid can and should record that it has written off an outstanding balance  
on Mr Cs loan.
I appreciate that Mr C (and Mrs C on his behalf) will find this part of the decision 
disappointing. I want to say that this isnt a decision that Ive taken  lightly.  And I really hope 
he (and Mrs C) will understand the reasons Ive reached the conclusion I have.     
fair compensation what Quick Quid needs to do to put things right for Mr C.
Ref: DRN93114663Having carefully thought  about everything, I think that Quick  Quid  should put things right for 
Mr C by:
writing off the outstanding balance remaining on loan nine; and
paying Mr C a sum of £1,000.00 to reflect the distress and inconvenience the 
administration of loan eight and the provision of loan nine caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 25 January 2019,  Im 
upholding Mr Cs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) should put 
things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93114664COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C has complained about a payday  loan (and top-ups) Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as 
Quick Quid) provided to him in September 2018.  For reasons  Ill explain in more detail 
further on in this decision, Mr C is being represented in his complaint by his mother Mrs C.
Mrs C has said that Quick  Quid shouldnt  have provided this loan and the additional  top-ups  
to Mr C because it knew that he was suffering from a mental health illness.  And so it ought to 
have realised that he wouldnt be able to repay any loans.
background
Quick Quid provided Mr C with a total of nine payday loans between August 2014 and 
September 2018. But neither Mr C, or Mrs C on his behalf, have complained  about  the 
provision of the first eight  loans. And so we havent considered whether these loans were 
fairly and reasonably provided to Mr C.
Mr C was provided with loan nine in September  2018. He was provided with an initial £850 
followed by a first top up of £175  and then a final top up of £475. So Mr C was advanced  a 
total of £1,500.00 for loan nine.
Mrs C says that what Quick Quid learnt  and was told during the course of loan eight meant 
that it shouldnt  have provided  loan nine to Mr C. So even though weve not looked  into 
whether Quick Quid acted  unfairly  when providing  loan eight,  I still think  the repayment 
history and communication  Quick Quid had with Mr C during  the period of time after the 
funds for this loan were  advanced is relevant.
Mr C was provided with loan eight, which was for £1,500.00, in March 2018.  This was a 
three payment loan and Mr C was required to make payments  at the end of March 2018, the 
end of April 2018  and the end of May 2018. Mr Cs statement of account shows that he 
made his March 2018 payment. But he then didnt make his April 2018  payment. The file of 
papers provided  shows that Quick Quid sent emails to Mr C chasing the outstanding April 
2018 and May 2018 payments.
In June 2018, after Mr C had been chased on a number of occasions, Mrs C attempted to 
resolve the outstanding balance on loan eight. Mr C (and Mrs C) wrote to Quick Quid asking 
it to add Mrs C as an authorised party on the account. Mr Cs letter of 19 June 2018  
explained why he wanted to authorise  his mother to deal with his account.  It said:
I lost my job and have  now been diagnosed, after a mental health assessment with bipolar. 
I am on medication and at the moment cannot  deal with stress. I have just started a new job 
which I am trying to hold on to.
Quick Quid didnt consider this enough to add Mrs C as an authorised  party. It asked Mr C to 
make a call to its customer  helpline as this is what the loan contract required a borrower to 
do to add a third party onto an account.  Mrs C was eventually added as a joint party  to the 
account in July 2018. And at this point she paid the entire outstanding  balance on loan eight. 
Mrs C also wrote to Quick  Quid asking it not to lend to Mr C again as he had a mental illness  
and he wouldnt be able to repay  any loans.
Ref: DRN93114665In mid-September 2018 Mr C was approved for a further loan for an initial amount of £850.  
This was then topped up by £175 and £475.  This led to Mr C being advanced a total amount 
of £1,500.00 within the space of four days.
As far as I can see Mr C made a scheduled payment of £148.60  at the end of September 
2018. But hes been unable to make  any further payments since.  And before Mr C made his 
September 2018 payment, Mrs C contacted Quick Quid, to complain that what it knew,  
through the correspondence that took place during the course  of loan eight meant  that it 
shouldnt have provided loan nine to Mr C.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mrs C (on behalf of Mr C) and Quick Quid said in 
relation to the complaint.  He concluded  that Quick Quid shouldnt have given Mr C loan nine. 
Quick Quid responded  and said:
Mr C acknowledged that he could afford  the payments on the loan;
Mrs C didnt provide any supporting documentation to confirm  Mr Cs mental health 
illness and based on this and in line with FOS practices on the matter it wasnt 
unreasonable for it to lend.
So Quick  Quid disagreed with our adjudicator  and as a result the case  was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quick Quids entire  defence of this complaint appears to be that it carried  out proportionate 
checks before providing loan nine to Mr C and that these checks demonstrated  the loan was 
affordable. And, in these circumstances, it wasnt irresponsible  for it to have lent to Mr C in 
September 2018.
Ive thought about Quick Quids arguments.  But I dont think  that Quick Quid has got to the 
crux of this complaint. Mrs C, on Mr Cs behalf, has in part argued  that loan nine wasnt  
affordable. But shes also effectively complained that Mr C shouldnt have been  given  the 
initial borrowing  as well as the top-ups  to loan nine because he lacked the mental capacity to 
do so. And Quick Quid knew, or at the very least it ought to have  suspected, this was the 
case because of what happened after loan eight was provided.
At this point, I think that it would be helpful  for me to set out the rules and guidance at the 
time loan nine was provided to Mr C. Quick Quid was (and still is) regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).
The relevant  regulatory rules  and guidance for providers of consumer credit  are set out in 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules  and 
guidance. The rules  regarding responsible lending are set out in CONC 5. Quick  Quid will be 
familiar with these rules  and I dont propose  to set them out in this decision.
I say this because,  as our adjudicator explained  in his assessment, CONC 2.10 sets out the 
regulators guidance on mental capacity. Our adjudicator set out some of these  provisions in 
his assessment. But given the particular circumstances  of Mr Cs case, I think that it would 
be helpful for me to set out CONC 2.10 in full.
Ref: DRN93114666CONC 2.10 says:
CONC 2.10.1 G
This section  applies:
(1)to a firm;
(2)in relation to the following decisions:
(a) granting credit under  a regulated credit agreement;
(b) significantly increasing the amount of credit under a regulated credit agreement ; 
and
(c) setting a credit limit for running  account  credit.
CONC 2.10.2 G
(1)The Mental Capacity  Act 2005  sets out the legal framework concerning  mental capacity 
for England  and Wales. The Ministry of Justice has issued the Mental  Capacity Act Code 
of Practice which, among other things, includes information on indications of mental  
capacity limitations and on how to assist people  with making decisions.
(2)The Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000  provides  the framework  in Scotland for 
safeguarding the welfare and managing the finances of adults who lack capacity due to 
mental disorder or inability to communicate.
(3)References in this section to a firm's knowledge, understanding, observation,  suspicion,  
assumption or belief  include  that of the firm's employees, appointed representatives, 
agents and any others  who act on behalf of the firm.
[Note: footnote 2 of MCG]
(4)In making a decision within CONC 2.10.1  G, a firm should  consider the customer's 
individual circumstances.
[Note: paragraph 2.4 of MCG]
Mental capacity
CONC 2.10.3 G
Mental capacity is a person's ability  to make a decision. Whether or not a customer has the 
ability to understand,  remember,  and weigh  up relevant information will determine whether 
the customer is able to make a responsible  borrowing decision based on that information.
[Note: paragraph 2.1 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.4 G
A firm should assume a customer  has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be 
made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should know, or 
reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
[Note: paragraph 3.1 of MCG]
Ref: DRN93114667CONC 2.10.5 G
Where a firm reasonably suspects a customer has, or may have, some form of mental 
capacity limitation which  would constrain the customer's ability  to make  a decision to borrow,  
the firm should  not regard  the customer as lacking capacity to make the decision unless 
the firm has taken reasonable  steps  without success to assist  the customer to make  a 
decision.
[Note: paragraph 3.2 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.6 G
Amongst the most common  potential  causes of mental capacity limitations  are the following 
examples, a mental health condition, dementia, a learning disability, a developmental 
disorder, a neurological disability or brain injury  and alcohol or drug (including prescribed 
drugs) induced intoxication.
[Note: paragraph 2.9 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.7 G
Where a firm understands or reasonably suspects a customer has a condition of a type 
in CONC 2.10.6  G, this does not necessarily mean that the customer  does not have the 
mental capacity to make an informed  borrowing  decision. See also CONC 2.10.15 G.
[Note: paragraph 2.10 of MCG]
Indications that a person may have  some form of mental capacity limitation
CONC 2.10.8 G
A firm is likely to have  reasonable grounds  to suspect a customer  may have some form of 
mental capacity limitation if the firm observes  a specific  indication (behavioural or otherwise) 
that could be indicative of some form of limitation of the customer's mental  capacity. 
Examples (amongst others)  of indications might include:
(1)where a firm has an existing relationship with a customer,  the customer making  a 
decision that appears to the firm to be unexpected or out of character;
(2)a person who is likely to have an informed view of the matter, such as a relative,  close  
friend, carer or clinician raising  a concern with the firm as to the capacity of the customer  
to make a decision about borrowing;
(3)the firm understands  or has reason to believe the customer  has been  diagnosed as 
having an impairment which led to the customer not having had mental capacity for 
similar decisions in the past;
(4)the firm understands  or has reason to believe the customer  does not understand what 
the customer is applying  for;
(5)the firm understands  or has reason to believe the customer  is unable to understand the 
information and explanations provided  by the firm, in particular concerning  the key risks 
of entering into the agreement;
Ref: DRN93114668(6)the firm understands  or has reason to believe the customer  is unable to retain  
information and explanations provided  by the firm to enable the customer to make the 
decision to borrow;
(7)the firm understands  or has reason to believe the customer  is unable to weigh  up the 
information and explanations provided  by the firm to enable the customer to make the 
decision to borrow;
(8)the customer is unable to communicate  a decision  to borrow  by any reasonable means;
(9)the customer being confused about  the personal  information  that the firm requires, such  
as date of birth or address.
[Note: paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of MCG]
Practices and procedures
CONC 2.10.9 G
(1)A firm should not unfairly discriminate against a customer who it understands, or 
reasonably suspects, has a mental  capacity limitation, in particular, by inappropriately 
denying the customer access to credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.8 of MCG]
(2)It would not be inappropriate not to grant  credit  nor significantly increase the amount 
of credit  under  an agreement nor set a credit limit for running account  credit where the 
firm reasonably believes the agreement or decision would be voidable  at the instance of 
the customer or the agreement is void.
CONC 2.10.10  G
(1)In accordance  with Principle 6, firms should take reasonable steps  to ensure they have  
suitable business practices and procedures in place for the fair treatment of 
customers who they understand, or reasonably suspect,  have or may have a mental 
capacity limitation.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of MCG]
(2)CONC 7.2.1 R requires firms  to establish  and implement arrears  policies  and 
procedures, which  include policies and procedures  for the fair and appropriate treatment 
of customers the firm understands or reasonably  suspects of having  mental  capacity 
limitations.
CONC 2.10.11  G
A firm should document practices and procedures to set out the steps  that it takes when it 
receives applications for credit from such customers.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.12  G
Where a firm understands,  or reasonably suspects, a customer  has or may have a mental 
capacity limitation the firm should use its business practices and procedures to:
Ref: DRN93114669(1)assist the customer, where  possible,  to make an informed borrowing decision; and
(2)ensure its lending decision is informed and responsible in the circumstances and 
mitigates the potential risks to the customer.
[Note: paragraphs 4.3 and 4.5 of MCG ]
CONC 2.10.13  G
As stated in the Mental  Capacity  Act Code of Practice, it is important to balance  a person's 
right to make a decision with that persons right to safety and protection when they are 
unable to make decisions  to protect themselves.
[Note: paragraph 4.5 (box) of MCG]
CONC 2.10.14  G
Firms should present  clear, jargon-free  information  in explaining credit agreements  in a way 
that makes it as easy as possible  for the customer to understand. Firms  should consider 
ways to present  information in alternative, more 'user-friendly' formats where it appears 
appropriate to do so, subject to compliance  with the relevant statutory requirements.
[Note: paragraph 4.20 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.15  G
Where a firm knows, or reasonably suspects, that a customer has or may have one of the 
conditions in CONC 2.10.6 G this could justifiably  act as a trigger for the firm to consider the 
potential specific steps in giving effect  to the firm's  practices and procedures  for assessing:
(1)whether or not the customer  appears  able to understand, remember,  and weigh up the 
information and explanations provided  and, when  having  done so, make  an informed 
borrowing decision;
(2)whether the customer appears  able to afford to make repayments under  the credit  
agreement in a sustainable manner without  adverse consequences to the customer's 
financial circumstances; and
(3)whether the credit  the customer is seeking  is clearly unsuitable (given the customer's 
individual circumstances  and, to the extent  that the firm is aware, 
the customer's intended use of the credit ).
[Note: paragraphs 2.5 and 2.11 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.16  G
Firms' practices  and procedures should be designed to assist customers  that firms 
understand have,  or reasonably suspect of having, mental capacity limitations  to overcome, 
to the extent possible, the effect  of the limitations  and place them, to the extent possible, on 
an equivalent basis to customers  who do not have such limitations, to increase the likelihood 
of customers being  able to make  informed borrowing decisions.
[Note: paragraph 4.4 of MCG]
Ref: DRN931146610Allowing sufficient time for decisions
CONC 2.10.17  G
Where a firm understands,  or reasonably suspects, a customer  has or may have a mental 
capacity limitation it should consider allowing the customer :
(1)sufficient time in the circumstances to weigh up the information and explanations the 
firm has given;
(2)sufficient time in the circumstances to make an informed borrowing decision;
(3)to defer  a decision to borrow  to a later date.
[Note: paragraphs 4.26, 4.27 and 4.28 of MCG]
Sustainability of borrowing
CONC 2.10.18  G
Where a firm understands,  or reasonably suspects, a customer  has or may have a mental 
capacity limitation it should apply a high level of scrutiny to the customer's application 
for credit, in order to mitigate the risk of the customer  entering into unsustainable  borrowing 
(see CONC  5.2 and CONC 5.3).
[Note: paragraphs 4.32 and 4.33 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.19  G
(1)A firm should balance the risk of a customer taking on unsustainable borrowing against 
inappropriately or unnecessarily denying  credit to a customer.
(2)Where a firm understands  or reasonably suspects a customer  has or may have a mental 
capacity limitation,  it should undertake an appropriate and effective creditworthiness 
assessment or assessment required by CONC  5.2.2R (1) and it would  be appropriate 
not to place over-reliance on information provided  by the customer  for the assessment.
[Note: paragraph 4.34 of MCG]
CONC 2.10.20  G
Where a firm understands,  or reasonably suspects, a customer  has or may have a mental 
capacity limitation the firm should take particular care that the customer is not provided 
with credit which the firm knows, or reasonably believes, to be unsuitable to the customer's 
needs, even where  the credit would be affordable.
[Note: paragraph 4.43 of MCG]
The guidance within  CONC is clear.  Where a lender knows,  or there  is clear  reason for it to 
suspect, a consumer  may not have the mental  capacity to make a responsible lending 
decision, it needs to take additional  steps to ensure any decision is informed and responsible 
in the circumstances. And it must  mitigate  the potential risks to the consumer. It isnt enough 
for a lender  to simply consider whether its prepared to take the credit  risk without  
considering the impact  of the lending  on the individual borrower.
Ref: DRN931146611In these circumstances, a lender simply carrying out the same checks, as it would normally  
carry out for every applicant (without  applying greater scrutiny) is unlikely to be sufficient to 
satisfy the guidance, or lead to acting  fairly  and reasonably in all the circumstances of the 
application.
So considering all of this, I think that there are potentially two key issues for me to consider 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
Firstly, I need  to consider  whether Quick Quid was aware, or it ought reasonably  to have 
been aware, that Mr C may not have had the mental  capacity to make an informed  decision 
on the borrowing  for loan nine. And if I find that it was aware,  or it ought  reasonably  to have 
been aware of this, did Quick Quid take reasonable steps to ensure any lending decision 
was informed and responsible in the circumstances and did it mitigate the potential risks to 
Mr C?
If I determine that Quick  Quid didnt  meet  its obligations and as a result didnt act fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr C and he lost out as a result,  Ill go on to consider what is 
fair compensation.
Was Quick Quid aware, or is the case that it ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
Mr C may not have had the mental capacity  to make an informed decision on the borrowing 
for loan nine?
Ive carefully considered  all of the information provided. And having done  so, I am satisfied 
that Quick Quid,  at the very least, ought reasonably to have suspected Mr C may not have 
had the mental  capacity  to make an informed decision on the borrowing for loan nine. I say 
this for a number of reasons.
Firstly, Mr C wrote to Quick Quid to explain this was the case.  Ive already set out (earlier in 
this decision) that on 19 June 2018 Mr C wrote  to Quick Quid saying:
I lost my job and have  now been diagnosed, after a mental health assessment with bipolar. 
I am on medication and at the moment cannot  deal with stress. I have just started a new job 
which I am trying to hold on to.
So Mr C clearly told Quick Quid that he wanted  to authorise his mother  on his account 
because he believed his mental illness meant he didnt the capacity to deal with matters  
himself. Quick Quid eventually accepted  this  albeit after prolonged correspondence  and a 
number of phone calls  because it ended up adding Mrs C as an authorised party on the 
account and taking a payment from her in order to clear the significant outstanding  balance 
on loan eight.
Im also mindful that, after paying  the outstanding amount of £2,643.00 on loan eight, Mrs C 
wrote to Quick Quid. She said:
On the 2nd July 2018 I paid my sons loan of £2643.00 so he owes you NOTHING.
I should be grateful  if you would  put a note on your system that you NEVER  give my son a 
loan again.
He has a mental illness and he would not be able to pay you back.
Ref: DRN931146612Quick Quid disputes  that this was enough  for it to take additional  steps to establish Mr C had 
the mental capacity  to make an informed decision on borrowing. Indeed, in its response to 
our adjudicators assessment, it said:
Please be advised  that the business  sent Mr C an email on 17 August 2018 advising that he 
would need to provide us with supporting documentation to support the claim that the 
customer has a mental  illness. I understand that Mr C's mother provided us with her 
statement about the behaviour of her son's mental state  at the time however, as a business 
we follow  certain guidelines and principals  of how we can proceed with this matter. 
Supporting documentation can include: medical  documentation in support of your mental 
health claim or an Official  Letter for Government  Disability or Pension documenting you are 
legally permanently disabled  and unable to work in any capacity. 
On this basis and in line with FOS practices on the matter, Mr C or his mother  never 
provided us with supporting documentation. Our records indicate that QuickQuid only 
became aware  of this in June 2018.
I am concerned by this argument for a number  of reasons. Firstly,  the Financial Ombudsman 
Service isnt a lender.  So I dont understand  how it is possible for Quick  Quid  to have 
followed our practice on determining whether Mr C had the mental capacity to make  an 
informed decision on the borrowing for loan nine.
Secondly, the evidence Quick Quid sought  from Mr C for it to agree not to lend to him was, 
in my view,  wholly disproportionate.  It might, in some cases,  be appropriate for a lender to 
ask a consumer  to evidence a change  in circumstances.  For example,  their circumstances 
may have  changed  leading  to them later being unable to make payments to a loan they 
could make before.  And, in these  circumstances, the lender might want the consumer  to 
provide information  and evidence in order to ascertain what theyre  able to repay.
But this isnt what happened here.  What  happened  was that Mr C was asked  to provide 
evidence of his mental  illness in order for Quick Quid to close  his account and agree not to 
lend to him. And I cant  see how it was fair and reasonable to refuse to close Mr Cs account 
until and unless he provided evidence of his medical condition when it had already been told 
dealing with these  matters was causing  Mr C stress and making his mental health condition  
worse.
By this stage, Quick  Quid had already  received notification from Mr C that he had a mental 
health illness. And it had also received a communication from a person who was likely to 
have an informed view of the matter, raising  a concern as to the capacity  of Mr C to make an 
informed decision about borrowing.
In these circumstances, rather  than asking Mr C to prove that he had a mental  health  illness  
Quick Quid ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have taken steps to assist Mr C and ensure that 
he was able to make an informed choice. I find Quick Quids lack of assistance here to be 
unfathomable. So it follows that I think Quick Quid was aware, or it, at the very least, ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware, that Mr C may not have had the mental  capacity to make an 
informed decision on the borrowing for loan nine.
Ref: DRN931146613Did Quick Quid take reasonable steps  to ensure its lending decision was informed and 
responsible in the circumstances? And were reasonable steps taken to mitigate the potential  
risks to Mr C?
Quick Quid has argued  that irrespective of Mr Cs mental health condition   his loan was 
affordable and he electronically signed  his contract  confirming this was the case. Ive thought 
about what Quick  Quid has said. But even if what Quick Quid says is true  and Im not 
persuaded this is the case  I think that this somewhat misses the point.
What I need to think about  here is whether Quick Quid  took reasonable steps to ensure its 
lending decision was responsible and whether reasonable  steps were taken to mitigate  the 
risks to Mr C. And having carefully reviewed everything, I dont think that Quick Quid  did that 
here.
Quick Quid mightve completed an income and expenditure assessment and worked out 
what it thought  Mr Cs estimated disposable  income  was  although I have doubts about the 
veracity of the checks given Mr Cs income appears  to have been recorded the same as it 
was for previous  applications even though Quick Quid was told hed changed  jobs  but this, 
on its own doesnt mean it was reasonable to lend.
The guidance in CONC required a lender to apply a higher degree of scrutiny to an 
application and take particular care to ensure a consumer is not provided with credit which 
the firm knows, or reasonably believes, to be unsuitable to the customer's  needs,  even 
where the credit would be affordable.  The information provided indicates that Quick Quid  
didnt do anything other than what it would normally do for any usual  application for a loan of 
this type.
I think that was even more unreasonable and egregious here given  what had happened 
during the course of loan eight. Quick Quid was aware that Mr C had defaulted on loan eight. 
And it was also aware that Mr C needed  his parents to repay it for him because  it accepted  
payment from Mrs C and she explained that this is what had happened. So I simply dont 
accept the argument that Mr C had managed his account in a sufficient manner and had not 
advised of any detriment prior to loan nine.
In my view, advancing further funds a mere  matter of weeks  after what had happened on 
loan eight without  subjecting Mr Cs application  to any further scrutiny  irrespective of what  
Quick Quid had been told about Mr Cs mental health  arguably, on its own, was 
irresponsible. But, in any event, I dont need to make  that finding  here because  what  Quick  
Quid had been  told about Mr Cs mental health meant that it needed to ensure the loan 
wasnt unsuitable for Mr C, even though it mightve  concluded it was affordable.
I think that what had unfolded  during the course of loan eight ought reasonably to have 
alerted Quick Quid to the fact that a payday loan for a total of £1,500 would more likely than 
not prove unsuitable for Mr C, given what hed said about his mental health.
So Im satisfied that Quick  Quids failure  to apply a higher degree  of scrutiny to Mr Cs 
application meant that it didnt take reasonable steps to ensure its lending decision was 
informed and responsible in the circumstances. And given Mr C was advanced £1.500.00 a 
mere matter of weeks after hed proved unable to repay a similar amount, I dont think  Quick  
Quid took reasonable steps to mitigate the potential  risks to Mr C.
Ref: DRN931146614fair compensation what Im intending to say that Quick  Quid needs to do to put things 
right for Mr C
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Quick Quid  putting Mr C 
in the position hed now be in if he hadnt  been  given loan nine.
the outstanding balance  on loan nine
In most cases, where a loan has been provided  when it shouldnt  have  been,  it would be fair 
and reasonable for the lender to refund  any interest  and charges paid by the consumer (if 
they were)  plus interest.  But the consumer would  be expected  to repay  any remaining 
amount of the funds they were given.
That said,  Im mindful of the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case. Quick  Quid  gave Mr C 
a loan for £1,500.00 after it was told Mr C was suffering from a mental health illness.  It did 
this a mere matter of weeks  after a previous loan for the same amount  defaulted  and when it 
knew that this loan had only been settled because Mr Cs parents paid it off.
So Quick  Quid advanced these funds, in circumstances  where it ought to have  realised there 
was a strong likelihood it wouldnt get what it was lending back without this causing Mr C 
financial difficulty. As this is the case, and paying this loan back is likely to cause Mr C 
distress and financial difficulty going forward, I think that Quick Quid  should start putting 
things right by writing off the outstanding balance on loan nine.
Mr Cs credit file
I turn now to Mr Cs credit  file. Our adjudicator asked Quick  Quid to remove  all entries 
relating to loan nine from Mr Cs credit  file. But I dont think that doing this would be the fair 
and reasonable thing  to do here given  my reasons for upholding the complaint.
To explain, the basis for Mr Cs complaint was and is that he shouldnt  be lent to because 
doing so would cause him harm. Ive accepted that this is the case  and thats why Ive 
upheld Mr Cs complaint.  I cant ignore the fact that Mr C (and well as Mrs C on his behalf) 
has clearly said that being  given more  loans will worsen his financial position  and 
consequently his mental health condition.
In these circumstances, it seems to me that amending Mr Cs credit file to remove adverse 
information thus increasing  the chances  of him being able to access  further funds  would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in his best interests, or those  of any potential  lender. So 
having carefully thought about everything, as Im asking Quick  Quid to write off the 
outstanding balance, Im not going  to ask Quick Quid to amend Mr Cs credit file. This means 
that Quick Quid can and should  record that it has written off an outstanding balance  on loan 
nine.
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Quick Quid  caused  Mr C.
As well as making an award  for any financial loss Mr C suffered as a result  of Quick Quid  
treating him unfairly, I also have the power to make an award to reflect the emotional  and 
practical impact Quick Quids actions have  had.
Ref: DRN931146615Our website  contains  detailed  examples of distress and inconvenience  awards  we might 
make and the reasons why might  make them. These  are set out in different categories and 
levels  to show the range of awards  we make.
Ive carefully considered  whether Quick  Quid should make an additional payment to Mr C 
with reference  to these distress  and inconvenience  awards and categories.
While I havent looked at whether Quick Quid acted unfairly when  providing  loan eight to 
Mr C, I do think  that what it did once Mr C ran into difficulty repaying this loan is relevant in 
relation to the distress and inconvenience  caused. Mr C contacted  Quick  Quid,  in writing, to 
explain that he had a mental  health  illness as a result of losing his job and this meant  that he 
wasnt able to respond to Quick Quids  demands  for payment.
Mr C wasnt refusing to make the payments. But rather he asked Quick  Quid  to authorise  his 
mother on the account so that she could resolve matters.  Instead of accepting  Mr Cs written  
instruction, Quick Quid insisted that Mr C provide  verbal authority  over the phone  before 
it would  allow Mrs C to discuss the account. And even  then instead  of taking steps to 
acknowledge Mr Cs illness  such as organising for someone familiar  with his account  and 
his written instructions  to call him and obtain  this authority  Quick  Quid instead  directed him 
to call its standard customer helpline where  he faced extended delays in being able to speak  
to anyone. Indeed  Mr C wasnt able to speak to anyone and it looks  like Quick  Quid,  in any 
event, ended up accepting the written authority it refused  to accept in the first place.
The responses Ive seen from Quick Quids casehandler also suggest  that Mr C was sent an 
email in August  2018 advising that he would need  to provide us with supporting  
documentation to support  the claim that the customer has a mental illness. I cant see why 
Mr C was being chased for this information  at this stage, given Mrs C had already repaid  the 
outstanding balance on loan eight in July 2018.
I cant see any reasonable basis for these actions, which  undoubtedly  wouldve exacerbated 
the stress  Mr C was suffering, being  necessary  simply because  Mr C wanted  to close his 
account. So, in my view,  Quick Quids actions in failing to promptly  authorise  Mrs C on the 
account and asking for unnecessary evidence  and information to close  the account, even 
before giving Mr C loan nine will, as he has described to Quick  Quid  in correspondence at 
the time,  have caused him a great  deal of unnecessary distress  and inconvenience  at a time 
when he was already suffering considerable anxiety.
Im also mindful that Mr C was advanced  a total of £1,500.00 for loan nine after he had told 
Quick Quid about  his condition and given  his mother authority to speak on his behalf. So 
Mr C wouldve suffered  the stress of owing a considerable amount of money   he had no 
means of repaying   at a time where  he was already  suffering mentally. And this was a 
matter of weeks after Mr C wouldve had the additional stress and anxiety caused by his 
parents having  to repay his previous loan at a time where he was trying  to hold things 
together in his new employment.
Having considered all of this in the round, I think that Quick Quids actions while  
administering loan eight  and in unfairly providing  loan nine caused Mr C a substantial  
amount of distress, inconvenience,  anxiety  and suffering.
Our website  sets out a compensation range of between £500  and £2,000.00 where  a 
consumer has suffered substantial distress  and inconvenience. I think  that the cumulative 
Ref: DRN931146616effect of the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr C  at a time when Mr C was suffering 
from a mental health condition  means  that it will have had a greater impact on him. And this 
is evident from the emails  sent to Quick Quid at the time and Mr Cs mothers  instructions.
So having  carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint, Im intending to award Mr C £1,000.00 for the distress  and inconvenience that 
Quick Quids actions  caused to him.
All of this means  that Im intending to say that Quick Quid  should  put things right for Mr C by:
writing off the outstanding balance remaining on loan nine; and
paying Mr C a sum of £1,000.00 to reflect the distress and inconvenience the 
administration of loan eight and the provision of loan nine caused.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending  to uphold Mr Cs complaint and say that 
Casheuronet UK LLC should pay Mr C put things  right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 8 February 2019 changes  my mind, thats 
what Ill tell Casheuronet UK LLC to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311466