K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that a car that was supplied to her under  a hire purchase agreement  with 
Billing Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes being helped with her complaint 
by her son.
background
A used  car was supplied to Ms B under a hire purchase agreement  with Billing Finance that 
she signed in January  2018. The car was more than six years old and had been  driven  for 
about 102,000 miles. Its timing chain slipped causing the engine  to overheat  and engine 
damage in September 2018  so Ms B complained  to Billing Finance. She said that the car 
was advertised as having a full service history  but the last service  had taken place  when the 
cars mileage was 56,000 miles.  
Billing Finance  arranged  for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. It said that 
Ms B hadnt provided evidence that the car was advertised as having a full service history so 
it couldnt hold the dealer responsible for mis-advising  her about the service history. It also 
said that it wasnt able to accept liability for the current fault with the car. Ms B wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that there  
wasnt enough evidence  to show that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Ms B so he didnt believe that it needed to do anything further in response  to her 
complaint.
Ms Bs son  on her behalf - has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. He has responded  in detail and says, in summary, that:
the car was advertised as having a full service  history;
the first fault with the car occurred about  two months after the car was supplied to 
Ms B and the cars MOT history  shows  that it had had issues  with its coil springs; 
the timing chain should last 200,000  miles;
the independent expert didnt inspect the timing chain; and
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms B so Billing Finance 
should either pay for the repairs or the car will be rejected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Billing Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
age and mileage  of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Ms B was more than six years old, had been  driven  for about  102,000 miles and had a price 
of £10,990. Satisfactory quality also covers durability  which  means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Ms B in January 2018.  It had been  advertised as having  both a 
documented service  history and a full service history. There  doesnt seem  to be any 
doubt that the car doesnt have a full service  history. But if a full service history  was 
Ref: DRN96275212important to Ms B I consider that it would be reasonable to expect her to have complained to 
the dealer about the service history soon after the car was supplied  to her. The absence  of a 
full service history doesnt show that the car hasnt been serviced  or that the timing chain 
hasnt been properly maintained.
The cars MOT  history  shows that it had failed  an MOT test in January 2018 because of 
issues with the coil springs  but those issues were resolved  and the car then passed an 
MOT test before it was supplied to Ms B. Ms B paid for a replacement headlamp bulb and a 
repair to the cars expansion tank in April 2018 and for repairs  to the thermostat housing in 
August 2018.  Im not persuaded that those repairs show that the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Ms B.
The cars timing chain slipped causing  the engine to overheat  and engine  damage in 
September 2018 so Ms B complained to Billing Finance. Shes provided evidence from a 
garage which says that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied  to her. The 
car had been  driven for 107,973 miles  so it had been driven for more than 5,000 miles 
since it was supplied to Ms B. Billing  Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert  in January 2019. 
The experts report concluded:
We would have to consider taking into consideration  that the vehicle has been  on 
cover for almost  a year and covered in excess of 5000 miles that there  is no 
evidence to indicate this condition would  been present at the point of sale. If the fault 
had been present it would have been  identifiable within the first thousand miles of 
use.
Ms Bs son says that the expert didnt inspect the timing chain and isnt independent. Hes 
provided no evidence  to show that the expert isnt independent  and its an organisation 
that is widely used  and accepted as providing  independent expert evidence about cars.  
Ms B was able to use the car for about  eight months and to drive  more than 5,000 miles in it 
during that period. If the cars  timing  chain had been faulty when the car was supplied  to her, 
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the fault wouldve  been  noticed sooner than it was 
and before the car had been driven for more than 5,000 miles.  
I sympathise with Ms B for the issues that shes had with the car and for the repair costs that 
she now faces. But Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence to show  that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Billing  Finance  to pay for the required 
repairs to the car, to allow Ms B to reject the car or to take any other action in response to 
her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96275213
Ref: DRN9627521