K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of repairs to his car in a claim he made on his Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  motor insurance policy and he also says the repairer damaged 
his car. He wants Admiral  to reimburse him for the £1,129.83 cost of repairing these items.  
background
Admiral said in its final response that an independent assessor had inspected  Mr Fs car. 
The assessor didnt  believe the scratch to the rear bumper and some other issues  Mr F 
highlighted were  accident related or caused by the repairer. Although  frustrating for Mr F, the 
repairer was entitled  to dispute it damaged Mr Fs car and not agree to repair the things  he 
highlighted.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
He has looked  at both the independent assessors report and Mr Fs report  from the 
manufacturer garage which  is more of a summary of the issues  with the car. He has 
given more weight  to the assessors report.
The scratch to the rear bumper was noticed and documented before the repairs  took 
place. Theres no evidence it was caused by the repairer. On the available evidence  
its unlikely the other  issues Mr F highlights  with the offside door and drop glass were 
caused by the repairer. The repairer  also says the parcel shelf wasnt removed and it 
will not accept responsibility  for any damage  to it. 
Overall he cant hold the repairer  responsible  for the issues  Mr F has raised.  And as 
a result he will not be asking Admiral to do anything further.
Mr F remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary he says his 
car was always in perfect order.  It went into the repairer with just the painting to be done and 
it came  back damaged. the scratch was in an area they painted  so it must have arisen after 
Admirals work was done. The assessor  spoke to the repairer and didnt speak to the 
manufacturers garage. Thats  not being impartial.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided  detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
The independent assessors views and conclusions are clear. He said the scratch on the 
bumper cannot  be considered accident  related or the responsibility of the repairer. No 
problem was noted by the repairer  with the operation of the drop glass and door operation. 
But any problem would  be wear  and tear related. The offside door trim was noted  to be 
damaged on the estimate and was pre-existing not accident or repair related. And he 
concluded the damage to the rear parcel shelf isnt related to the repairs or accident.
I recognise Mr F doesnt agree with these  conclusions  and has questioned the impartiality of 
the independent assessor. But I think it was reasonable  for the assessor to speak with the 
Ref: DRN98852392repairer particularly  as Mr Fs allegations relate  to what the repairer  may or may not have  
done. I also dont  think it was unfair for the assessor not to contact the manufacturer  garage 
whose report just details  the various issues with Mr Fs car and doesnt seek to explain them.
I agree  with the investigator that its fair to rely on what the independent  assessor has said 
particularly in the absence of any contradictory  evidence from a similarly qualified  expert  
commissioned by Mr F.
As a result I dont think on balance  that I can reasonably conclude that the repairer damaged  
Mr Fs car as he suggests. Consequently I cannot fairly or reasonably  require Admiral to 
reimburse Mr F for the £1,129.83 cost of rectifying  them. And I dont see any compelling 
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9885239