K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited will apply an early 
cash-in charge  to the value of a Flexible Investment  Plan (FIP) she originally took out in 
2007 if she dies within five years of making  a large  top-up to the FIP in June 2017. 
Shes represented by her son-in-law, Mr N, who had recommended  the FIP to her in 2007. 
He says that, as this top-up in June 2017 was essentially a replacement for a large  
withdrawal Mrs B made from the FIP two months earlier as a bridging  loan to move house,  
its not fair that a FIP she has held for more than 12 years should suffer such a charge if she 
dies before  June 2022.
He added that Mrs B didnt receive the Product Particulars Notice illustration (including her 
statutory right to cool-off)  for the top-up which confirmed  that such a charge on a reducing 
scale would  occur if she died within five years of making the top-up. Otherwise, she wouldnt  
have reinvested the money in the FIP. 
Although Prudential has confirmed that this charge is an integral part of the FIP, Mr N says it 
was applied to claw back setting-up  costs,  including commission,  if Mrs B died or 
surrendered it early.  But commission hasnt been paid since 2013 and, in any event,  the top-
up in June 2017 was arranged by her direct. Prudential  could make  a huge profit out of her 
death which cant be justified and goes against the Financial Conduct  Authoritys principle of 
treating customers fairly.
      
background
In January 2007, Mrs B was approaching age 80 and invested  £180,000 in the With Profits 
fund of a Flexible  Investment Plan (FIP). 
The key features document (KFD)  dated February 2006 confirmed that, as she was aged 
75 or more  and chose  the no initial charge option, Prudential applied  an early  cash-in  
charge to the value of the Plan if Mrs B surrendered  it, or died, within five years  of making 
the investment  (including subsequent top-ups), on the following reducing  scale: nine per 
cent in year one; seven  per cent in year two; five per cent in year three; three per cent in 
year four and one per cent in year five.
However, the illustration  Mrs B received when she took out the FIP in January 2007  
confirmed that the early  cash-in charges would be seven per cent in year one; five per cent 
in year two; three per cent in year three and one per cent in year four.
In September  2008, Mrs B did make  a top-up to the FIP of £32,000,  so the same  scale  of 
early cash-in charges  applied to this part of the investment until September  2012. She also 
started to take annual  capital withdrawals of £1,500 from the value of the FIP, payable 
monthly.  
It seems  Mrs B decided to move  house  in 2017 and needed funds to purchase her new 
home because she hadnt  yet sold her existing property. So, she applied to part-surrender 
the FIP for £305,000, leaving it in force with a minimal value of £1,700, and stopped  the 
regular monthly withdrawal after the March  payment. It appears that this transaction was 
overseen by Mr N.
Ref: DRN95941392When Mrs B sold her previous property less than two months  later, she applied direct to 
Prudential to reinvest £370,000 in the FIP and to restart her annual withdrawals at £1,800, 
payable monthly. Prudential sent a Product Particulars illustration (including a statutory 
Cooling-off Notice) to Mrs B at her new address which confirmed  that she requested  this 
investment on a no initial charges option  basis and that: We pay out 100.1% of the value of 
the plan, less any early  cash-in charge, upon death. The Product  Particulars also confirmed 
that this charge applied in the first five years  of this top-up and on the same reducing  scale  
set out in the February 2006 KFD.
While Mrs B has said that Mr N called  Prudential to confirm her intention to reinvest in the 
FIP, it nevertheless wrote  to her current servicing adviser for this investment notifying it of 
her request  to allow you the opportunity, if you wish, to make  contact  with your client in 
regards to this.  It seems  Mrs B completed her application direct with Prudential without 
receiving or requesting  contact from this adviser.     
Prudential rejected Mrs Bs complaint because the Product Particulars illustration she 
received when she took out the FIP in January 2007  confirmed that early cash-in charges 
applied in the first four years  for each investment (including top-ups).  This condition was 
repeated in the proposal Mrs B completed to arrange the top-up in September  2008. 
Prudential emphasised that the early cash-in  charge is a key feature of the policy  and is not 
related to the clawback  of commission.  It also pointed  out that a Product Particulars Notice  
(including Mrs Bs statutory right to cool-off  within 30 days)  was sent to her new address in 
June 2017 and this set out a similar  scale of charges for this reinvested sum.  It couldnt 
explain why Mrs B failed  to receive this Notice.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who didnt  think it could be 
upheld. Briefly, he said that:
Prudential did not advise Mrs B to take out the FIP in 2007  or in relation to any 
subsequent activity on it and, therefore, it has no responsibility to ensure it was 
appropriate for her needs at all times;
the original key features document for the FIP states: Theres a charge for taking 
money from the plan  in the first five years of each investment or top up. If the 
person(s) covered  is (are) aged  75 or more when you take out your plan,  we will 
apply an Early Cash-In Charge on death. If the person covered dies within five 
years (or three  years if you selected the 3-Year  Early Cash-In Charge option) from 
the date of each  investment  (including top-ups) we will apply the charge. So, he was 
satisfied that the documentation  Prudential  provided Mrs B at outset clearly set out 
the circumstances in which this charge would apply;
while he acknowledged  Mrs B says she didnt receive the Product Particulars in June 
2017 which confirmed  these  charges again, he could see that its addressed 
correctly and Prudential  has said it was sent. Therefore, on the balance  of 
probabilities it was most likely  sent out to Mrs B;
its important to note that Mr N was her financial advisor who arranged  this policy for 
her in 2007. Its also evident  that he oversaw  all activity on the FIP up-to-and-
including Mrs Bs request  to reinvest  £370,000 in the FIP in June 2017. He ought to 
have known that a Product Particulars  Notice would have been issued for this 
application; 
Mr N has argued  that an early cash-in  charge shouldnt apply in June 2017  because 
commission was no longer paid to advisers  by then (and Mrs B applied  direct to 
Prudential for the top-up anyway). But the purpose of the early cash-in charge is not 
to take back unearned commission - its an integral part of the products features.
Ref: DRN95941393On balance, the investigator  couldnt see that Prudential  had done anything wrong in its 
dealings with Mrs B, who either  took independent advice or dealt direct  with Prudential 
without adviser involvement.
 
In response, Mr N disagreed with the investigators  assessment  and said that:
the focus of the Financial Conduct  Authority during the last few years has been on 
high charges for investments,  which  are deemed  not to be within  the spirit of treating 
customers fairly. Consequently,  payment  of commission to advisers has been 
banned;
while Prudential strictly may not have done anything wrong, in applying  a severe 
penalty on a financial  product, whose  purpose  is to claw back  commission, when no 
commission has been paid on this top-up in 2017, is not within  the spirit of treating 
customers fairly;
Prudential makes  £6,475 each year from Mrs Bs policy and its patently unfair to 
charge another £26,000 from her death. It is pure profiteering and morally repugnant 
to hide behind  outdated and now banned  terms and conditions.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.   
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first address the issue  raised by Mr N that, in the interests of fairness  and because  no 
commission was paid that needed  to be clawed-back, the early  cash-in  charge should  not 
apply to the top-up investment Mrs B made in June 2017. As he says, Mrs B applied to 
Prudential for this top-up investment in June 2017  without  requesting  or receiving advice.
The removal  of commission paid by providers to advisers came  with the initial  
implementation of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR)  in January 2013. 
Briefly, RDR is concerned with ensuring  greater transparency in the provision of advice, 
removing product bias by moving from a commission-based,  to a fee-based, system of 
remuneration and ensuring  adviser  are better qualified. But RDR didnt prescribe how the 
charging structure of insurers existing products should be amended  accordingly.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys principle of treating customers fairly  (TCF) does not look 
to ensure if a customer has been disadvantaged by the terms and conditions of a product in 
his or her individual  circumstances. It relies on seeing a number of outcomes that show firms 
have adopted  a culture that commonly treats its customers fairly: that products and services 
generally are designed to meet the needs  of customers, that customers are provided clear  
information before,  during and after the point of sale, that advice provided is suitable, that 
products perform,  and services are provided,  as customers were  led to expect and that they 
are free to change  product,  switch provider, make a claim  or bring a complaint.
What treating customers fairly doesnt mean  is that Prudential should have made a 
concession, or changed  the original terms and conditions of the FIP, specifically for Mrs B 
because she made a top-up to the FIP at an age which  meant she might not live another 
five years.
Ref: DRN95941394Mrs B was already almost 80 when she took out the FIP in January 2007. When  she 
withdrew £305,000 from it in March 2017, it remained in force with a nominal  value on its 
original terms  and conditions. 
Both the key features  document  and the illustration Mrs B received at outset, and the 
illustration she was provided in respect of the top-up in September  2008, confirmed that an 
early cash-in charge  would be made  to the fund on her death within four years  of each 
investment. Accordingly,  when Mrs B withdrew £305,000 from the FIP in April 2017, no such  
charge applied. 
But, in returning  £370,000  to the FIP two months  later, Mrs B was making a top-up to it and 
she acknowledges in her complaint that it was a top-up. As such, she should have expected 
the original terms and conditions to apply;  i.e. that this top-up would be subject to a fresh  
early cash-in charge  . That the FIP did apply another early  cash-in  charge from June 2017  
doesnt mean that Prudential has treated her unfairly. It wasnt Prudentials  responsibility to 
warn Mrs B what  this might mean for her, and whether it was advisable  to make this 
investment, at her age. She was aged 90 by then and it was for her to decide whether it was 
appropriate to make this investment based on its existing  terms and conditions  that applied. I 
agree with Mr N that it may not have been advisable for Mrs B to take the risk of suffering a 
significant charge  to her fund given the probability that she may not live another  five years.  
But that was a decision Prudential couldnt make  for her.
I also have to bear in mind that Prudential did follow the principle of treating Mrs B fairly by 
ensuring that it sent her a Product Particulars illustration in June 2017 enabling her to 
consider the terms  and conditions of this investment and to change  her mind within 30 days  
if she decided it wasnt suitable.  It also notified  her current servicing adviser that she had 
applied to make this investment so it could discuss the merits of making this top-up with her. 
But its evident that Mrs B continued to be guided by Mr N.
Having said that, Ive listened to a telephone conversation between  Mr N and Prudential  
from May 2017 when  Mrs B was considering the reinvestment of £370,000  in the FIP. In this 
call, Mr N gave Mrs Bs date of birth as part of the initial caller verification process. So it was 
apparent she was more  than 75 years old. Later,  Mr N comments that her age didnt allow  
her to invest in a brand new FIP - the maximum age at entry was 89. This alone might  
suggest there was some  disadvantage in making a new investment beyond that age.
The purpose of the call was to obtain information  around Mrs Bs intention  to make a large 
investment in her existing  policy. Later  in the call, Mr N confirmed this figure as £370,000. 
Much of the initial conversation concerned chargeable gains and tax implications of making  
withdrawals.
But Mr N then asked: if the value of the FIP reduces, whether it still paid the original amount 
invested on death or if Mrs B ever went into care. The representative didnt comment on the 
nursing home option, which does pay the surrender  value (less any MVA  that might  be 
applicable) with no early  cash-in charge. Mr N was alluding to the Guaranteed Minimum 
Death Benefit - Return of Premium Option  at extra cost. This option was never  available to 
Mrs B, as she was more than 74 years  old when she took out the FIP in 2007.
The Prudential representative did provide Mr N information with regard to the amount 
payable on Mrs Bs death that was incorrect, as follows:
Ref: DRN95941395that the FIP would  pay 101 per cent of the fund value to Mrs Bs estate. No mention 
is made that an early  cash-in charge would apply if Mrs B died within  five years  of 
making the top-up of £370,000. (As Mrs B was more  than 74 years old at outset, the 
death benefit is 100.1 per cent of the current fund value, less the early  cash-in  
charge);
that the policy was joint life. (But Mrs B was the only life assured,  so the FIP would  
be surrendered  on her death and the proceeds paid into her estate);
that there is no chargeable event on her death (But the FIP is a non-qualifying whole 
life policy  and death is a chargeable event).
So, based  on this conversation and what Mr N knew, or ought to have known,  from the 
policy documentation  Mrs B had received from Prudential since January 2007, I have to 
consider what Mr N is likely to have told her in good faith before she decided  to top-up the 
FIP by £370,000 in June  2017. 
As the Product Particulars Notice was correctly addressed  to Mrs B in June 2017, I cant  
explain why she didnt  receive it. It seems she did receive this documentation when she took 
out the FIP in January 2007, and when she applied for the top-up in September 2008. So, I 
would have thought both she and Mr N should  have expected to receive similar paperwork in 
June 2017, and the same terms and conditions to apply. I do note that, when Mr N called 
Prudential in 2018 to make this complaint, it incorrectly  confirmed (albeit  after the event)  that 
Mrs B would not have  received a Product  Particulars  Notice for this top-up  in June 2017.
The application of early cash-in charges on death  is entirely  due to Mrs B being  more than 
74 years  old each time she invested in the FIP. She was the only life assured and, therefore, 
the FIP would  be cashed-in on her death.  But this early cash-in  charge  is a potential 
charge, whose purpose is not to claw-back setting-up costs,  including  commission, because 
Mrs B may not die within five years and, therefore,  the charge may never  be made.
Also, FIPs taken out, or topped-up,  by investors  who are under 75 years old at the time do 
not suffer an early  cash-in charge on death,  whether the investment was taken out before 
or after payment  of commission  to advisers ended  in 2013. This charge is age-related and is 
applied so that Prudential can be fair to all policyholders investing  in this product. In the fund 
chosen by Mrs B, any final bonus  declared is added to death benefits and a market  value 
adjustment (MVA) that might otherwise be applied to a surrender value doesnt apply on 
death. A charge is applied to cover  these concessions on death.
While I acknowledge that Mrs B has held the FIP for 12 years, she did withdraw all but 
£1,700 of its total fund value in April 2017,  including  all the growth  it had made. So, when 
she topped-up the nominal sum left in her FIP with £370,000, in terms of her contribution  to 
the value of the fund, she essentially became a new investor from June 2017. And, as this 
top-up constituted almost the whole  of her fund value, it attracted an early cash-in charge 
on surrender or death to protect the overall  value of the fund,  and investors share of that 
fund  who remain in it over the longer term, from early exit payments.
On balance, I dont  think Mr N should have believed that early cash-in charges would no 
longer apply just because  Prudential didnt pay commission on the top-up investment  Mrs B 
made in June 2017.  
Ive also considered whether Mrs B and Mr N could have reasonably  believed  that no early 
cash-in charge  would apply to the FIP in June 2017 in any event.
Ref: DRN95941396There were errors and omissions  made  by Prudential in its telephone conversation  with Mr N 
in May 2017.  And there were moments during that conversation  when the representative 
might have been prompted to mention that an early cash-in  charge  would  apply if Mrs B 
died within  five years. But Prudential was not Mrs Bs adviser, and it couldnt be expected  to 
provide Mr N all the information and potential  consequences of investing £370,000 in the FIP 
at her age as if it was her adviser. Mr N was her adviser, and its reasonable to expect  he 
would have known  that the same terms and conditions of the FIP from the two previous 
investments he arranged for Mrs B in January 2007  and September  2008 would apply to the 
top-up she proposed to make in June  2017.        
It is not the role of this service to comment on the design of a product as it affects Mrs B 
where Prudential  didnt recommend the policy to her. If she believes the terms and 
conditions of the FIP dont support the principle of treating customers fairly, she would need 
to refer the matter  to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But I should emphasise  that the 
FCA doesnt resolve individual disputes;  it would consider whether Mrs Bs comments  raise 
systemic issues  with this product that merit  its attention.  
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9594139