K820x#14complaint
Ms L says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 9 March  2021,  a copy extract  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Ms Ls complaint in 
regards to the mis-sale  element  of the complaint. But I considered Santanders  offer of 
payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% 
of the policy  cost a fair way to resolve the non-disclosure  of the commission  element of the 
complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither Santander or Ms L have given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint and I consider the offer of the payment of 
the amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% of the policy 
cost a fair way to resolve  the commission element of the complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms L. But Santander  UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject  my 
decision before  19 May 2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background and summary to complaint
Ms L bought  the policy in 2010  over six years after taking out a mortgage. She applied for 
the PPI policy  over the phone. 
Ref: DRN94540402The policy provided  cover  for Ms L for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £282 a month towards Ms Ls mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £21.90  a month.  
At the time,  Ms L was employed as a administration assistant. She has told us she was 
entitled to 6 months worth of sick and redundancy pay and had 3 months worth of savings 
she could use to make her mortgage payments  if she couldnt work.  Ms L has said she 
suffered from hayfever  but hasnt said that this caused her to have any time off work and 
was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2011 and 
started in 2004.  
Ms Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ls representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ls representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Ms L about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms L and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Ms L received was misleading.  These policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint  both parties have seen and provided 
their responses to the adjudicators opinion.  Ms L disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN94540403my provisional findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ls complaint.
The credit agreement started in 2004  and ended in 2011. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin  
judgment, also apply.  I will come back to this later on.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN94540404The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Ms Ls complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Ms L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Ms L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Ms L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Ms L suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Ms L has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
taking into account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), 
Santander should have disclosed the commission  it received - and if it didnt, what  
would be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms L and 
Santander, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Ms Ls alleged mis-sale complaint. I have 
Ref: DRN94540405also considered  the issue  of non-disclosure  of commission  and Ive provisionally decided 
that Santander should have disclosed the commission it received. My provisional findings 
are set out below. 
did Ms L know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
When Ms L was sold the policy by Santander she already had a mortgage in place for over 
six years. The policy  was standalone and payments taken entirely separately from the 
mortgage. 
So taking this into account, I think its more likely that Ms L knew the policy  was optional and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. If Ms L hadnt agreed to take the policy I 
think she wouldve questioned why she was being charged for it on a monthly basis.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it didnt provide advice during this sale and Ms L cant  remember. Ive seen 
a copy of the call script  that the sales advisor would have followed and there  is nothing  on it 
that suggests that a recommendation was made on Ms Ls personal circumstances, so Im 
not persuaded that it provided  advice.
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms L. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Ms L to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms L was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms L was unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms L would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Ms 
L agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think Santander gave Ms L sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ls representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN94540406PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ls representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Ms L? To what extent did Ms L 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms L. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Ms L suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Ms L would have still 
taken out the policy,  had Santander done things  properly.  
Ms L says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms L had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of Ms L being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms L thought  she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Ms L was given about  the cost was clear I can see this was outlined  in the 
schedule of cover sent out to her. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such  
as benefit, limitations  and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Ms L would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Ms Ls expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Ref: DRN94540407Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Ms L 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms L from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms L didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Santander may not have told Ms L that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months 
was a longer period than Ms L would have received full sick pay for and her statutory 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Ms Ls sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Ms L was made redundant, or unable to work  through  the accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms L would have taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN94540408Ms Ls representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms L wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms L in the position she would have been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Santander  should pay Ms L compensation, as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms L thinks Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Ms L, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2010 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Ms L and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
Ref: DRN94540409compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms L in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
So I dont  propose  to uphold the mis-sale  element of Ms Ls complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Ms L to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Ms L has made a number  of representations about  the impact  of the Plevin  judgment  and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Ms L 
said that:
-Santander failed  to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to pay 
claims), and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If Santander had told her about  those things, she would not have taken  out the 
policy, so she should get back all the money  she paid by way of premium for the 
policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  and the FCAs ICOB rules  did 
not specifically  require Santander  to tell Ms L about  commission  or about the claims 
Ref: DRN945404010ratio (nor, for reasons Ive already explained, did the duty of utmost  good faith require 
that). As the FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance  to businesses for the 
handling of PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose 
commission was not in breach of ICOB/ICOBS (or the industry  codes which 
preceded them) and would  not  in and of itself  have been a breach of FCAs 
Principles for Businesses. Those Principles include a requirement on businesses  to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade  associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believes will reduce uncertainty 
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.   Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as Santander  did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would  have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether 
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship  
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the 
appropriate remedy - if any.
Ref: DRN945404011-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Santander has not sought to rebut  it in 
Ms Ls case. In fact, Santander  made an offer or payment  to Ms L in 2019,  calculated 
in line with the FCAs guidance. 
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that Santander didnt tell Ms L about  the high levels of commission  and profit  share 
paid in this case, I think  its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  
Santander and Ms L was unfair under section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs 
rules require Santander to determine  appropriate  redress in those circumstances, and I have 
had regard to those rules  below  in deciding what compensation  it would  be fair to award  Ms 
L in order to remedy  that unfairness.  
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that Santanders failure  to disclose information about the claims ratio also 
meant there  was an unfair relationship.  But in some respects, commission and the claims 
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums 
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that Santander should have told Ms L about 
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
Santander and Ms L was unfair  under section 140A because it didnt tell her about 
the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think Santander  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Ms L insofar as it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Ms L should get a full refund 
of the premiums she paid to put her in the position  she would have been in if she hadnt 
taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission  and profit share Santander  received,  
or a refund of the commission  paid above  a certain  point  for example by taking the 
Ref: DRN945404012approach set out in the FCAs rules  and guidance (as has already been offered by 
Santander).
As Ive mentioned  above, Ms L says that she should  get a full refund of all the PPI premiums 
she has paid. In summary, Ms L says that the high level of commission (and/or the low 
claims ratio)  together with the policys limitations  and exclusions  meant that the PPI 
policy generally represented poor value  for money for her. I should therefore find that Ms L 
would not have purchased the policy had she known  of the level of commission   and 
accordingly, she should receive  a refund of all the PPI premiums she paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Ms L suggests it does  i.e. 
that she necessarily would not have purchased the policy had the level of commission been 
disclosed to her at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Santander did not disclose the high 
level of commission to Ms L, the court would necessarily order Santander  to return  all the 
premiums Ms L paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court  would necessarily find 
that Ms L would not have purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the 
high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Ms L 
in order to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact Santander  did not disclose  the high 
level of commission to her before she purchased  the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Ms L, I have, as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
Ref: DRN945404013The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.   These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
Ref: DRN945404014undisclosed commission  may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Ms L is now making  i.e. that the existence  of an undisclosed high 
Ref: DRN945404015level of commission means that I should find that Ms L would  not have purchased the policy 
had she known about the level of commission at the time she bought  the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Ref: DRN945404016Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Ms Ls (involving  a regular premium policy)  is that a firm should  pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my provisional conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Ms Ls 
representations, my provisional conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Ms L has urged me to conclude that because Santanders failure  to disclose the high 
level of commission (and/or profit share) made her relationship with Santander unfair, 
I must find that she wouldnt have purchased the policy had she known about these 
matters at the time she purchased  the policy.
-However, I do not accept Ms Ls suggestion. As I said above,  I recognise it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Ms L at the time of the 
sale, she might have  decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, 
I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Ms L by the failure  to disclose the high level of commission  I am 
not, as Ms L suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have purchased 
Ref: DRN945404017the policy but for Santanders failure  to disclose the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for Santander  to calculate 
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Ms L 
paid for her PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving  Ms L with the policy Ive concluded above she would have taken  out if 
Santander had met its obligations  when acting as an insurance  seller  but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Ms L in line with the FCAs guidance at step 2, this 
effectively reduced  the overall  cost of the policy by an amount  equal  to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source  of the 
unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Ms L in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left her with the policy I believe  she would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  her for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Santanders offer of payment of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms was fair in all the circumstances. 
my provisional decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  propose to uphold the mis-sale  element of Ms Ls complaint or make any 
award in favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive provisionally  decided 
that Santander UK Plc should pay Ms L an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done  so.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9454040