K821x#15complaint
Miss S complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) treated her claim for her 
stolen bicycle and accessories as a single item claim. 
background
Miss Ss bicycle and several accessories - including panniers, a lock and high visibility items  
- were  stolen from a covered balcony outside her home in August 2018.  Miss S submitted a 
claim to RSA and was told her claim was limited to £500 per single item and that the bicycle,  
accessorises and upgrades to the bicycle were one item. 
Miss S complained to RSA. She said the bicycle and accessories would cost over £1,000 to 
replace. So she would  not be able to replace the bicycle and all the accessories, like for like, 
for £500. Miss S said she was insured for personal  effects outside of the home up to the 
value of £1000.  
RSA responded  in October 2018.  It said Miss Ss quote for a replacement bicycle  included  a 
number of upgrades  made to the original bike, such as tyres, pedals and a seat.  It said her 
policy indicates these  items are part of the bicycle as they cannot  be used without it. And, as 
such, the single article  limit of £500 applies to the claim. 
RSA said the claim was considered under the Personal Effects  section of the policy,  as this 
provides cover for the loss or damage to personal  effects outside  the home. It said the 
relevant policy  term is: 
We will pay for loss or damage to personal  effects,  pedal cycles (including accessories) and 
sports equipment,  which are owned  by any member of your household or for which  they are 
responsible. They are insured against loss or damage in the British Isles and temporarily 
elsewhere within the European  Union  while in the possession of any member of your 
household.
Miss S remained unhappy and referred  the complaint to this service. She said she 
understands that upgrades such as tyres  and the saddle are part of the bicycle.  But she said 
some of the accessories could be used without  the bicycle such as panniers, high visibility 
items, lock and helmet. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said some  of the accessories, namely  a 
high visibility  tabard  and belt and the lock could be used in everyday life and not just for the 
bicycle. So he thought  these should  be considered as personal effects that had another use 
and shouldnt have  been included under the £500 limit initially imposed. 
RSA disagreed and said all of these items are bought for a specialist reason and do not form 
part of clothing  normally worn or carried  in everyday life. RSA said if Miss S didnt have a 
bicycle, then she wouldnt have bought these additional items. As such,  they fall under the 
Pedal Cycle Accessories  section of the policy.  
Miss S also disagreed  with the outcome  as she wanted all of the accessories to be dealt with 
as separate items. She said she has used several of the items when not using her bicycle. 
So this complaint has come to me to review.  
Ref: DRN99622582After reviewing the complaint, I contacted RSA to let it know  about  what appeared to be an 
incorrect claim limit amount listed in the insurance  certificate  an error that has no bearing 
on the outcome  of this complaint. I also told Miss S and RSA I intended to come to a 
different outcome to that of the investigator. I said I intended to conclude  that the fairest 
outcome was for all of the additional  items  Miss S claimed for to be classed as accessories. 
This means  RSA do not need to take any further action. I gave both parties  an opportunity to 
respond. 
Miss S responded and said the tabard, belt and panniers were mainly used for walking  and 
shopping, in particular when some health  problems meant she wasnt able to use her 
bicycle. She said if the items had only been  used  by her when she was cycling,  then she 
would agree with the suggested outcome, but this is not the case and she disagrees.  
RSA responded  and confirmed its aware of the error in the insurance certificate. It agreed 
with the suggested outcome. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am not upholding it.  
Ive looked at whether RSA made it clear enough  in its terms and conditions that a £500 limit 
applies to the bicycle, including the accessories. And Im satisfied that it does. The Personal  
Effects section of the policy states that bicycles (including accessories) are covered, while  
the section that outlines  maximum amounts payable says the Personal Effects  section is 
subject to a single article  limit of £500.  
Miss Ss insurance schedule incorrectly lists the limit as £250, but RSA are aware of this 
error and have worked in line with the £500 limit since  the claim was submitted. So this error  
makes no difference  to the outcome on this occasion. 
I then looked at whether RSA acted fairly when it said the panniers, locks,  helmet  and high 
visibility tabard and belt were all accessories to the bicycle and so dealt with the claim as the 
theft of a single  item. And Im satisfied it did act fairly. 
Im satisfied all of the items Miss S claimed for were bought so that they could be used while 
Miss S was cycling. And this means  they are accessories to the bicycle  claimed for by Miss 
S. It might be the case that some of the items could be used when Miss S was, for instance,  
taking a walk or shopping.  But Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss S bought the 
items specifically so they could be used while she was cycling. And, as such, its fair for RSA 
to deal with them as accessories to the stolen bicycle and to pay the claim subject to the 
single article limit of £500. 
I realise Miss S has spent more money on the bicycle and accessories than she can claim 
under her policy with RSA. And I understand she feels it shouldnt  be the case that she is out 
of pocket when  an item is stolen and a claim is made. But I cant  ask RSA to pay out more 
than what both parties agreed should  be paid when the contract  was entered into, unless I 
thought RSA had acted  unfairly in how it dealt with a claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I do not uphold  Miss Ss complaint.  
Ref: DRN99622583Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9962258