K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc told them they couldnt  take out 
a mortgage unless they also took life insurance. But they had cheaper  offers  for the same 
cover from other insurers and feel their policy was over-priced.
background
Mr and Mrs U started  a Virgin  One account  with The Royal  Bank of Scotland in 2001, so 
they could remortgage. The account gave them a personal banking current  account with a 
borrowing facility secured against their home.  A condition of this borrowing was that they 
should maintain  life cover for the amount of the facility.
Mr and Mrs U took out a One account life insurance  policy. 
In 2018, they complained that the policy had been mis-sold to them,  as they recalled being 
told that it had to be One account life insurance  or they wouldnt have  been  accepted  for the 
account.
But the life insurance provider said that Mr and Mrs U hadnt been  given any advice about 
the policy, and the decision to take it out was their own. It said Mr and Mrs U had received  
literature about  the policy and a notice giving them 14 days in which they could cancel  it if 
they no longer  wanted to go ahead with it.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He said 
the terms and conditions of having  the account  were that Mr and Mrs U had to have life 
insurance for the full amount of their borrowing facility on it. But he hadnt  seen  anything  to 
say that they were  told this had to be a One account policy, and Mr and Mrs U had said they 
had quotes from other  insurers  for the cover. He thought the policy  they took gave  them a 
suitable level of cover.
Mr and Mrs U didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for their complaint  to be 
reviewed. Mr U said he feels  like they were mis-led into taking out the life insurance with the 
account rather than a cheaper alternative.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents relating to the Virgin One account  show that having and maintaining suitable 
life insurance for the borrowing facility was a requirement for the account to start.  
This is shown in Mr and Mrs Us offer letter which says:  During the Term you must have and 
maintain life insurance cover of a kind agreed  with us for the amount of your Facility. If we 
agree an increase in your Facility,  you must  increase  the life cover  to match. All existing 
charges on the life policy(ies)  must  be released.
Its also set out in the Important Points  about  the Virgin One account document, as 
condition 11: You must  maintain life insurance  for the amount  of the Facility and you must 
insure your home.
Ref: DRN94942502I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Us recollection  that they were told this cover needed to also be 
with Virgin  for the One account to go ahead.  Theyve told us that this was their third 
remortgage and they were aware of different life insurance premium rates having had quotes 
from other providers.
The offer letter for the Virgin One account says that Mr and Mrs U couldnt  start using it until 
all the formalities had been completed. And part of this was that life insurance  should be in 
place. But I havent  seen anything to show that this needed to be the One account policy.  
This isnt shown to be a requirement on the offer of the account which only says for life 
insurance cover of a kind agreed with The Royal Bank of Scotland for the amount of the 
borrowing facility. 
The life insurance  providers records show that it was taken out without Mr and Mrs U 
receiving advice about whether it was right for them. Mr and Mrs U were sent an information  
pack about the cover which could be adjusted  to match the amount of the borrowing facility  
so it could be increased or decreased  if this changed in the future. 
The application form for the cover  also referred to the need for life insurance with the Virgin 
One account. It said: With a One account,  you need  to have enough  life insurance to cover  
your borrowing facility  al all times. You can either  arrange this yourself or take advantage of 
our unique Virgin One account  life insurance. If youve already got some cover in place,  you 
can simply top it up with us. I think this suggests  that the life insurance didnt need  to be this 
particular policy  it could  be one already held or arranged by the applicants by themselves.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think this life insurance was mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs U, 
as, although they had to take out life cover for the One account, the information they were 
given doesnt  show that this had to be a One account policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before17  June  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9494250