K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out a store  card in 2002  in the store.  PPI was added shortly  after on the phone.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs W to take out the policy. But, it did have to give her enough clear  
information to decide for herself if the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it. 
Mrs W was diagnosed with a medical  condition around the time the policy  was sold to her. 
She had to take medication to manage  this. Under  the terms and conditions  of the policy  it 
said the following  wasnt covered:
 Any sickness, disease,  condition or injury which you knew about or should have known 
about, or for which you received  advice, treatment or counselling  from any doctor during the 
12 months before the start date.  
Given the nature of Mrs Ws condition and the timing, I think  it unlikely that her medical  
condition wouldve been covered under the policy. 
She said she was eligible  to get up to 12 months  worth of sick pay through  work (six 
months worth at full pay and six months worth  at half). I think she probably wouldve still 
been covered  through her work  benefits  if she was off work because of her medical 
condition. She also said she had some savings. 
I think had Mrs W been  given clearer information  about the limitations  on cover and 
understood she likely wouldnt  have been fully covered under the PPI policy,  I dont think  she 
wouldve thought  the policy worth it to her, in her circumstances. I think it unlikely that she 
wouldve taken out PPI, so, I think that shes lost out as a result of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN98809172So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs W owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
W paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest on 
the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint  and order Financial Insurance Company  Limited  to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9880917