K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains about the service she received from Santander UK Plc after it declined  
her online application  for a credit card. 
background 
On 18 June 2018, Miss M applied online for a credit card with Santander  as she wanted  to 
make a balance transfer. Her application was declined  and Santander  said this decision was 
made after an assessment by a computer.
Miss M said when she queried why her application  had been declined  she was given limited 
information. She said she was told the decision had been based on information received 
from a credit reference agency. She later received  an email, which explained she could 
appeal against  this decision in writing or by visiting a branch.
On 5 July 2018,  Miss M visited a branch to submit  an appeal.  She said she told staff there 
that if her appeal succeeded  she wanted to use the credit card only for emergency 
purchases. She said she no longer  wanted the balance transfer to take place.
She also attended the same branch after this with her credit report. This had been requested 
by staff during  the previous visit. After an underwriter looked  at the information shed 
provided, they overturned the banks previous decision. And so her credit card application 
was approved on 10 July 2018.
Miss M was notified of this decision by email and told that the balance transfer would go 
ahead. She visited  a different branch to clarify  what had happened  in light of the instructions 
shed given to the bank  on 5 July about  no longer wanting to transfer  a balance onto the 
credit card. But, she said she was told that once the credit  card was activated the balance  
transfer would take place.  So the only way to stop this was to cancel it. 
Miss M complained to Santander  about  what had happened. It didnt  uphold  her complaint 
and said it hadnt  had made  an error in declining her online credit card application. But, it 
offered her £30 as a gesture of goodwill to reflect the trouble she was put to. Miss M wasnt 
happy with this as she didnt think this adequately  reflected the inconvenience shed been 
caused. And she thought Santander should inform her of the true reason  why her application 
was rejected.
When Miss M brought  her complaint to us our adjudicator said they didnt think Santander 
had made  an error when  assessing her online application. But they did think the customer  
service it gave her couldve been better. So, they thought Santander  should  increase its offer 
of compensation  to £50, which it agreed  to do. Miss M initially  accepted  this offer.  But she 
then decided she wanted an ombudsman to review  her complaint and to determine  whether 
the compensation shed been offered was fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
I can appreciate how frustrating it mustve been for Miss M to have had an application  for 
credit refused  especially  when  she hadnt  previously experienced such  a problem. But I 
Ref: DRN91749572think its important to say at the outset that, on the basis  of what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
Santander made a mistake when Miss Ms online  credit application was declined.  I say this 
because this was an automated system  driven decision, the outcome of which  Santander 
says was in accordance with its lending criteria. 
A responsible lender is required to assess an applicants eligibility  to obtain credit before it 
can offer credit. Here,  Santander  says it scored the information Miss M provided  during the 
application process. And it said she didnt score high enough in its assessment  of her 
application. 
There are lots of factors that could  contribute to a customer not meeting a specific  lenders 
criteria. Santander  said it allocates points during the application process for details relating 
an applicants income, expenditure,  living arrangements  as well the information contained 
within their credit file, which can may previous account history, subscriptions to the electoral 
role and credit searches.  It said these scores are combined and assessed against 
Santanders score card.  And it makes  a decision,  on this basis as to whether  or not its able 
to offer a credit card to the applicant.
Santander has said that although  Miss M met the application criteria, when her application 
was assessed  automatically by a computer it was declined because  she didnt meet its 
lending criteria. Its explained that the credit score  obtained from any of credit  reference 
agencies is different to those calculated by Santander. Its said this is because  credit 
reference agencies  make an assessment of an individuals score using just their credit file 
data, which  typically doesnt include other  important information such as their employment  
details, income, expenditure and dependant(s)  information. So this may explain why, 
although she scored highly with a credit reference agency,  she didnt meet  Santanders 
lending criteria.
I appreciate Miss M is upset about  this, and I understand her concerns as to why her 
application for a credit  card was declined. But different  lenders will have different lending  
criteria and a bank  is entitled to decide whether  or not it will lend to Miss M and, if so, on 
what terms. Thats a legitimate commercial decision for Santander to make. And its not 
something wed generally interfere with. 
Miss M is unhappy Santander only gave her limited information as to why her application 
was declined. She said she wanted it to share  the true reason why it had rejected  her 
application because  this had caused  her worry, anxiety and uncertainty about  how future 
applications for credit would be treated.  Santander  told us Miss Ms application was declined  
due to affordability concerns. Im satisfied  this adequately explains why her application  was 
rejected. And I dont  think Santander needs to provide any more  information here. I say this 
because that may involve  it disclosing  information  about the scoring  systems that it uses in 
its assessment, which are financially sensitive and confidential to Santander.
When Santander was supplied with a copy of Miss Ms credit  report  during the appeals 
process it was able to explore in detail  whether  the amount she wanted to borrow  was 
affordable to her. And this process  involved an underwriter manually assessing her 
application for credit. As our adjudicators explained,  the underwriters had access to more 
details by using  Miss Ms credit report and were able to reach a more  informed  decision  than 
the system could. Having  seen evidence of her credit score, I can understand why an 
underwriter would overturn the banks previous decision after reviewing her credit  report. 
And this explains why the underwriters were able to overturn  the decision the system had 
Ref: DRN91749573made online. Im not persuaded though that this means Santander made  a mistake when 
declining the original application.
Miss M said Santander didnt give her clear information about  how she could  appeal  against 
its decision to decline her application. Miss M said she received an email confirming she 
could appeal  the refusal in branch. But, when she attended a branch local to her, staff there 
told her they couldnt  help because her application  had been made online. Miss M said it 
was only as a result of her challenging this that she was able to submit her appeal.  This 
shouldnt have been necessary and I agree with our adjudicator that Miss M received poor 
customer service  from Santander here.
Ive assessed  whether  the level of compensation it offered  her appropriately recognises  what  
happened. Miss M was inconvenienced and had to make three  visits to the bank. And I dont 
doubt she experienced unnecessary worry and anxiety. Santander initially  offered  her £30 as 
a gesture of goodwill  to recognise her trouble and upset. But after Miss M referred her 
complaint to our service our adjudicator felt an award of £50 was more  appropriate  here. 
Its clear Miss M doesnt think  this adequately  reflects her inconvenience and experience. 
But while I acknowledge Miss Ms strength of feelings about  this matter, I think  the revised  
amount of £50 is a fair award that recognises  the trouble  she was put to. So, I wont  be 
ordering Santander to pay any more. I understand that the cheque Santander issued for £30 
has now been cancelled.  In view of this, Santander  should therefore pay £50 to Miss M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that Santander UK 
Plc should pay Miss M £50. This is to reflect the trouble  and upset caused for the poor 
customer service  she received.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9174957