K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lifelink Services Ltd trading as My Mortgage  Expert  
(Mortgage Expert) unfairly and unreasonably gave poor advice  about  their Help to Buy loan 
and its effect on their property. They want compensation.
background 
Mr and Mrs S bought a property with the aid of a Help to Buy scheme in 2014  
Mortgage Expert was their mortgage broker, but not the Help to Buy agent. Mr and Mrs S 
said that they asked Mortgage Expert about whether the value of the part of the property  
owned under  the Help to Buy shared equity loan would increase or decrease over time, and 
that they were  told that the value  would remain the same for five years.  Later, Mr and Mrs S 
said that they found out this wasnt correct  and their property had increased in value, which  
meant they owed more  than they expected.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Mortgage  Expert.  It accepted that its staff had given an 
incorrect answer to Mrs S question but said the member of staff attached  to his email  a 
guide which gave  the correct answer  and told Mr and Mrs S to read it. Mortgage  Expert  
noted that the documents given to Mr and Mrs S and their solicitor confirmed that the value 
of the property did affect the money  due to be repaid and that this could change  at any time. 
It said that while its staff gave one incorrect answer, Mr and Mrs S were  made  aware of the 
correct position  throughout  the process due to the information set out in the relevant 
documents and the guide. Mortgage  Expert  didnt  think  that one incorrect answer caused 
Mr and Mrs S to use the Help to Buy scheme and pointed out that it was a mortgage broker.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. The investigators  view was that Mortgage Expert didnt 
need to take action. She said that she understood that Mr and Mrs S had said that they 
didnt receive all the documents about their loan, but pointed  out that there was a solicitor  
acting on their behalf who shouldve explained  everything to them. The investigator  thought  
enough information had been given to Mr and Mrs S telling them  about how Help to Buy 
worked and the one email with incorrect information  didnt  override this. She also thought 
that Mr and Mrs S wouldve used Help to Buy in any event as theyd  started out as a Help to 
Buy customer from the start.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said they didnt think their complaint  had been  investigated  
properly by this service. Mr and Mrs S said that their question had been about  their 
mortgage (they viewed  the mortgage  and the shared equity loan as the same  thing)  and 
Mortgage Expert should be held accountable.  Mortgage Expert commented that the solicitor 
advising Mr and Mrs S was required  to explain the shared equity loan and how it worked, 
and had confirmed  that she had done this. The investigator didnt change  her view and 
pointed out that the solicitor had confirmed  Mr and Mrs S had been advised properly. 
Mr and Mrs S said that they believed  that they had a professional negligence claim against 
Mortgage Expert.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN90117632Its useful if I set out what happens with Help to Buy schemes. First,  theres more than one 
loan in play. The consumers take out a Help to Buy mortgage with a lender, often  having  
been advised by a broker such  as Mortgage Expert.  Separately, a shared equity loan is 
taken out with a government  agency, with the aid of a Help to Buy agent. The mortgage 
broker isnt responsible for the shared equity loan  its role is to recommend a suitable 
mortgage which is affordable and meets the consumers needs,  but this isnt the shared 
equity loan.
Its the role of the Help to Buy agent and the government agency to supply  information  about 
the shared equity loan and explain how it works. The mortgage broker  might try to assist the 
process, but the primary responsibility is on the agent. Its the role of the solicitor in these 
types of transactions to explain fully the shared equity loan, and I note that Mr and Mrs S 
solicitor confirmed she did this for them. And if Mr and Mrs S wish to bring a professional 
negligence claim against Mortgage Expert, thats a matter for them  and the courts, not this 
service, though I would  point out that the courts will consider  the same points as me when 
considering Mortgage Experts role and area of responsibility.
In Mr and Mrs S case, I can see that Mortgage  Expert answered questions  and gave one 
incorrect response, but it also referred Mr and Mrs S to the information  they had about the 
shared equity loan.  That information  repeatedly  told them  that the value of the governments  
interest in their property  would change based on the value of the property; I think  that 
information was the reason why Mrs S asked Mortgage Expert about this issue.  And I can 
see this information  was given more than once to Mr and Mrs S and their solicitor,  including  
after Mortgage Expert had given the incorrect response. What Mortgage  Expert  shouldve  
done was referred  Mr and Mrs S to the Help to Buy Agent or the solicitor  or read the 
information it held properly before responding.
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes; my role is to put the consumers back 
into the position that they shouldve been  in all along  if the error hadnt  been made. But in 
Mr and Mrs S case, Im satisfied  that even after Mortgage Expert gave one incorrect  
answer, they and their solicitor had enough  information explaining how Help to Buy worked  
and they chose to go ahead. I also have borne in mind Mortgage Experts responsibility in 
connection with the shared equity loan. And I note from the start Mr and Mrs S were Help to 
Buy customers and theres  no evidence that they wouldve been able to get a mortgage 
outside of the Help to Buy scheme;  indeed, Mr and Mrs S accept this themselves  and all 
Help to Buy scheme include a shared equity loan. I think that its more likely than not that 
even if Mortgage  Expert had given  the correct answer,  Mr and Mrs S wouldve taken out a 
shared equity loan.  For example, I note that they signed a Help to Buy application before the 
incorrect information was given to them by Mortgage  Expert,  so the incorrect information 
didnt lead Mr and Mrs S to take out the loan.
But even though Mortgage  Expert wasnt responsible for the shared equity loan, and is only 
responsible for its actions  in connection with the mortgage it recommended, I do think  it 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  by giving incorrect information. The whole transaction  was 
linked to the mortgage it recommended  all that Mortgage Expert needed to do was to 
either tell Mr and Mrs S to ask their solicitor or the Help to Buy agent or read the information 
it held. Instead,  it chose to answer the question  and gave an incorrect answer. This isnt fair 
or reasonable in my view.  As a result, Mr and Mrs S have been put to the effort of making a 
complaint and been caused upset and confusion  due to the incorrect answer. While I accept 
that the incorrect answer didnt lead Mr and Mrs S to take out the shared equity loan, the 
information given  was connected  to the work Mortgage Expert was undertaking and I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for me to ignore this.
Ref: DRN90117633In all the circumstances of the case, I think its fair and reasonable for Mortgage Expert to 
pay Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the incorrect  
information it gave.  I appreciate  much of their upset is caused by the discovery that their 
property value does  affect the amount owed to the government  agency, but this isnt 
something for which Ive found Mortgage Expert  to be at fault.
In response to my provisional view, Mortgage  Expert  said they had nothing to add but were 
willing to pay the compensation I recommended, but Mr and Mrs S disagreed.  They said 
more compensation  should be paid to reflect the time theyd spent in making their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  what  the parties  had 
to say about my provisional decision.  
Both parties  appear to agree some compensation should be paid to Mr and Mrs S. Money  
never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered, and I can only compensate 
consumers for the trouble and upset  caused by the failings of a business. Ive only found 
Mortgage Expert to be at fault in respect of one email, not the whole transaction. So I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for me to compensate for all of the effort expended by 
Mr and Mrs S in bringing this complaint. Overall,  and bearing in mind  all the circumstances 
of this case, I remain of the view that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  against Lifeline Services  Ltd and it should pay 
£250 compensation to Mr and Mrs S for the trouble and upset caused. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before  18 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9011763