K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  cover which they neither agreed to or wanted.  
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr and Mrs T with an answer  about  this 
complaint quite a while  ago. They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr and 
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs T may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI 
was mis-sold to them. However, Im sure they will also recognise  that the sale, being in 
1993, was well over 25 years ago. Its therefore obviously understandable that they may not 
remember everything that took place.
There is no original documentation left to refer to. But as Halifax is a major  lender, Ive 
evidently seen  quite a few cases like this one and know quite a bit about the type of 
paperwork that consumers were usually given around that time with mortgages.
Whilst I accept  Mr and Mrs Ts main  point of complaint  is that they didnt even know about  
the PPI policy, Im afraid my experience is that Halifax would have sent them welcome 
letters and policy schedules for the PPI, which ran alongside their joint-mortgage.  Theres  no 
dispute that PPI was sold to them, so the insurers  would have no reason not to send out 
these details. My experience is that the correspondence would set out the policy  numbers, 
the cost of the PPI and who was covered. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely. As well as the sale being a long time 
ago, we know the PPI was stopped  around 20 years ago too, and the mortgage itself was 
closed a few years later. So its not unreasonable that Halifax cant send me the original 
records although it did send me computer screen  shots which show  the policy  was set up in 
both their names. All this leads me to say the PPI policy would have been generated at the 
point of sale and so its much more  likely  that Mr and Mrs T would  have been  sent the details 
Ive described above. This means they most probably agreed to the PPI and they would 
almost certainly have been able to see it had been set up to cover  their mortgage borrowing. 
Clearly, if all this had been a mistake, then they would have wanted  to know  why the cover 
had been set up. Mr and Mrs T would also have had to authorise the monthly  PPI premium 
to leave their bank account.  
I therefore think they consented  to the PPI although  I accept they dont remember this now.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs T because  Halifax probably  
recommended this to them as part of an advised sale. I think  it was suitable. I say this 
Ref: DRN93578962because they both seem to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions  we tend to see in these policies. I also think  the cost was comparable with 
similar insurance sold at the time.
They may well already have had some  sickness protection with their jobs and I recognise 
this would have  been relatively generous  because of employer  they worked for. But Im 
afraid this doesnt  necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt suitable for them. Their mortgage would 
have been a significant and long-term  financial commitment, secured against their home,  so 
the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The 
PPI cover,  on the other  hand, was designed  to pay a substantial monthly sum for up to 12 
months if theyd needed to claim for unemployment,  and 24 months for accident / sickness.  
So Halifax  putting  forward a recommendation to have cover  like this wasnt  in itself unfair.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer  have  the actual paperwork now in respect  of Mr and Mrs T, but I think its 
more likely they would have known what the cover was costing and what they had agreed 
to. I think  they probably had enough  information on which to make an informed choice.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs T. But these events are from a long time ago and to 
uphold their complaint  Id need to think it was more likely they never gave their consent or 
that there  were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think  its 
much more likely  they tailored the cover to suit their needs of the time and would have had 
a lot of documentation showing this. They would also have been able to see the £21 leaving 
their account  each month.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and I dont direct  
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything  to put matters  right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9357896