K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms A say HSBC  Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr C and Ms A took out a PPI policy with a flexi loan in 2000. They  paid just under 9% of 
their monthly repayment amount for the policy. The policy provided 50% of the repayment 
amount for up to 12 months if either couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment or 100% of the monthly repayment amount if they were both unable  to work. 
The flexi loan and PPI policy closed in 2009.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C and Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr C and Ms As case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr C and Ms As complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are limited  documents available  from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. And the sale happened over 18 years  ago, so Im not 
surprised that neither  HSBC nor Mr C and Ms A has been  able to provide much of the 
specific sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence  for me to 
consider, I need  to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities   that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides  have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened. 
Ive considered the sample credit agreement  form which HSBC has supplied. This suggests 
that Mr C and Ms A had to tick or sign next to a statement saying they wanted  repayment 
protection box to get the cover. Ive not seen anything that clearly  shows  HSBC  didnt make 
Mr C and Ms A aware the PPI was optional or failed  to get their consent. So, considering 
how long ago the sale was in this case,  I havent  seen  sufficient  evidence  to be able to 
uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered  all the submissions I have received 
in this case, I think its more likely that HSBC wouldve made  them aware that the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it, even though  they may not remember that now,  many 
years later. 
Neither HSBC nor Mr C and Ms A can remember if advice was given. If HSBC provided  
advice, HSBC had to sell Mr C and Ms A something  that was suitable  for them.  I dont need  
to make a firm finding on whether advice was given  because I dont think  it makes  a 
difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
I say this because looking at Mr C and Ms As circumstances  at the time, if advice was given 
or, in other  words, HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C and Ms A, the PPI seems to have 
been right for them. For example Mr C and Ms A were eligible for the policy  and werent  
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.  And they seem  to have had 
Ref: DRN97285282a need for the cover. Mr C and Ms A told us they dont recall having any substantial  sick pay 
entitlement from their employers and that they had no means other than family support they 
could have relied  on if they were unable to work. This policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Mr C and Ms A were  either  too ill to work  or lost their jobs. So, as this would  have 
paid out in addition to Mr C and Ms As sick pay and removed the need  to rely on their 
families for support, I think they wouldve found this cover useful.
The policy cost for the benefit was comparable to other  policies offering similar benefits  at 
the time.  And Ive not seen anything to suggest  it was unaffordable.
HSBC also had to give Mr C and Ms A clear information about the policy  so they could make  
an informed choice about buying it. Its possible that HSBC couldve done more  to provide 
clear information about aspects  of the policy. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable  for Mr C and Ms A, I dont  think  clearer  information  wouldve put Mr C 
and Ms A off buying the policy. Overall,  I think Mr C and Ms A would still have taken the 
policy out if theyd  been properly advised  and informed. So, they havent lost out due to 
anything HSBC did wrong. 
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Ms A, but I hope that the explanation is 
helpful. Which  means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C and 
Ms A.
But HSBC  has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C and Ms A because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mr C and Ms A about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr C and Ms A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC should  pay back to Mr C and Ms A the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also 
pay Mr C and Ms A 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C and Ms A can claim back the tax, if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C and Ms A.
But HSBC  Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C and Ms A any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it has not already done so. If it 
has already paid that amount there is no further amount to pay.
Ref: DRN97285283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9728528