K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to transfer 
benefits from his occupational  pension  scheme (OPS) to a personal pension policy (PPP) 
with Lloyds in 1991.
background
In 1991 Lloyds advised Mr B to transfer  benefits accrued in his OPS to a PPP with it. 
As Mr B was approaching his retirement  age, he reviewed his pension  provision  in 2019. 
Having done so he felt the advice hed been given in 1991  may not have been in his best 
interests. So, he complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds considered Mr Bs complaint and in summary said:
its records showed the advice Mr B received  in 1991 was reviewed as part of the 
Pension Review
following the review  Lloyds offered Mr B compensation which  he accepted. As a 
result a policy was set up with a value of £12,853.04 being invested
its redress offer was calculated in accordance  with methodology outline by the 
regulator at the time
as a review of the advice Mr B had been completed it wouldnt take any further  action
Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mr B referred  his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
the Pension Review was intended  as a one off exercise to address poor advice 
provided
where compensation was offered it was calculated based on assumptions about set 
by the regulator about what  would happen between the review and retirement age
unfortunately the regulators assumptions hadnt mirrored reality.  So although the 
value of Mr Bs PPP was increased with the intention that it would match the benefits 
hed receive from his OPS  at retirement,  circumstances meant this hadnt  been the 
case
although she understood  why Mr B was unhappy  she didnt think  it was fair to hold 
Lloyds responsible for assumptions which had been made by the regulator  at the 
time
Mr B disagreed with our investigator  and said he still felt hed been treated unfairly. Mr B 
said he didnt think the assumptions made at the time of the Pension  Review  had been 
accurate or realistic. He also said that at no point in 1991 did Lloyds have  any discussion 
with him about  the risks associated with transferring out of his OPS.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive 
Ref: DRN99122602taken serious note of the comments made  by both parties, I have limited my response to 
what I consider to be the issues  central  to this complaint.
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr B. Its clear  to me this matter means a lot to 
him and understandably so. Indeed hes explained that the pension  hes complaining about 
will ultimately be his main  source of retirement  income. Im very sorry to hear of the worry 
this situation has caused Mr B and certainly dont  doubt his sincerity  or the strength of 
feeling with which he brings his complaint.
The key consideration here however is whether  there  are any reasonable grounds  on which I 
should direct  Lloyds to review the 1991 advice Mr B received again. I dont think  there  are. 
And Im afraid theres very little I can add without repeating much  of what Mr B has been told 
by Lloyds and our investigator.
As has already  been explained, the advice that Mr B was given to transfer  was reviewed in 
2001 as part of the regulators  industry wide Pension Review. This was initiated by the 
regulator because  it feared that investors like Mr B may have been given poor advice which  
didnt meet the required standards  at the time.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence that Lloyds didnt complete the pension review in 
line with its regulatory  obligations. Lloyds starting  point was that Mr Bs PPP had been mis-
sold. The pension review  loss calculation was done  on this basis. So I cant fairly conclude 
Mr Bs claims that the risks associated with the transfer werent adequately explained to him 
are reasonable grounds upon which Lloyds  should  be required to review  the 1991  advice Mr 
B received again.
I understand Mr B has concerns about  assumptions Lloyds used as part of its review 
calculations. But Im mindful that these were set out by the regulator. Its also important to 
note that as part of the industry  wide Pension Review  and under the express guidance of the 
regulator, Lloyds  was only required to review the advice Mr B received once. And this had to 
be based on assumptions the regulator  told it to use at the time. The fact these assumptions 
may not have achieved  what  was expected  (or accounted  for every specific benefit held 
under a former employers pension scheme) isnt grounds to redo the calculation. This is 
because the Pension Review was only intended  to provide, where appropriate, the right 
amount of redress to consumers to compensate them as much as possible for any financial 
loss they were identified  to have suffered as a result  of their transfer out of a former 
employers pension scheme.
I think its important to remember  the aim of the Pensions Review was effectively to draw a 
line under  any pension mis-selling and put matters right at that time.  It was a one-off 
exercise and from everything Ive seen Lloyds carried out the review it was required to. 
Lloyds had to carry out internal quality assurance checks  to ensure that the calculations 
were correct and in line with the appropriate  guidance. It was also subject to regular 
inspections from the regulator to ensure that the review had been carried out in line with the 
guidance.
I sympathise with Mr B and understand why hes unhappy with Lloyds calculation and the 
Pension Review outcome.  As Ive said unfortunately much of the assumptions  used to 
calculate the future loss, with hindsight, were  wide of the mark. But this was the then 
regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so its not something 
this service can now challenge or ignore.
Ref: DRN99122603I realise hell be disappointed with my decision  but as Ive already explained, based on 
everything Ive seen I am not persuaded to direct Lloyds to meet Mr Bs request for it to 
review the 1991  advice  he received again. The Pensions Review  was an industry wide 
standardised process and Lloyds complied with this. Lloyds compensation offer was 
accepted by Mr B on 19 June 2001 in full and final settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9912260