K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained to Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Led about  the 
advice they received between December 2014  and May 2015.
background
Mr and Mrs S say Positives Solutions  adviser  made poor recommendations about their 
income protection provision. They  say, in summary,  that:
The adviser wrongly recommended that Mr S should cancel an existing income  
protection policy (which  I will call policy  A) in favour of one held with another  provider 
(which I will call policy B). Policy B had been mis-sold and he recommended changes  
which didnt fit with Mr Ss needs. As a result  hes received an insufficient benefit since 
making a claim on the policy.
Although Mrs S asked  for advice about  taking out an income  protection  policy  the adviser 
sold her a decreasing  term assurance with critical illness policy. She already had 
sufficient critical  illness cover  and had no need  of another policy.
Positive Solutions said it didnt advise  Mr S to cancel policy A and the advice about changing 
policy B was suitable, but Mr S didnt follow this and made his own decisions about how to 
amend the premium and benefit.  It pointed  out that an income  protection policy  wouldnt 
have been suitable for Mrs S given her salary and likely state benefits. But it accepted  she 
didnt need the extra cover afforded  by the decreasing term assurance with critical  illness 
policy. So it offered her a refund of the premiums shed paid since  the policy started, along 
with interest calculated at 8% simple per year, plus £250 in recognition  of any trouble and 
upset she mightve been  caused. 
Mr S didnt accept Positive  Solutions  comments about his income  protection and Mrs S 
wasnt sure whether to accept its offer. So they asked us to look into their complaint. Our 
investigator thought  the advice Mr and Mrs S were  given about income protection was 
suitable. But Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year explaining why I didnt think  Positive Solutions 
should be held responsible for the loses Mr S had claimed and why I thought the offer made 
to Mrs S was fair at the time. but should be brought up to date. I said, in summary, that:
The evidence showed policy  A had been taken out the month before Mr Ss first contact 
with Positive Solutions adviser. But I didnt think it was likely the adviser knew  about  
policy A until some time after their first meeting. Thats because I had seen emails  where  
the adviser engaged with Mr S about the benefits afforded by policy  A. But while these 
emails said what the adviser thought Mr S should do with policy B, neither they (nor any 
of the other documentation the adviser  produced) made any recommendations with 
regards to policy A. Policy  A was cancelled in October 2015,  appropriately  10 months 
after Mr S first met with the adviser. I had difficulty understanding  why Ms S retained  the 
policy for so long if the adviser  had told him to cancel it.
The adviser thought policy B afforded a higher level of cover  than Mr S could likely have 
ever benefited from and I agreed with that assessment.  I also thought  the adviser had 
fairly assessed the likely  benefits  Mr S would get from his employee  in the event he was 
unable to work through accident  or sickness and his likely retirement age. And, 
Ref: DRN94086122accordingly, the recommendation the adviser  made to reduce  the monthly premium and 
benefit were appropriate.
Mr S said the amendments the adviser recommended  he make to policy  B left him short 
of income when he came to make a claim in 2017/18. But I didnt  think Mr S actually took 
the advice he was given about  this. Despite what the adviser said,  he chose not to 
amend the policys  deferred period and selected a higher monthly benefit. And he did so 
after receiving a number  of different quotes  from the policy provider which  also explained  
the effects of the policy amendments.  The adviser also helped  him to make  a complaint 
about the original  sale of policy B with particular  reference to the deferred period and 
monthly benefit. So I thought it was more likely than not, at the point the policy 
amendments were  made, that Mr S he understood and was happy with the level of cover 
provided.
Positive Solutions had accepted Mrs S didnt need the decreasing term assurance with 
critical illness policy she was sold. And the methodology it used to calculate her redress 
was appropriate.  But, by the time I made my provisional decision, the calculation was 
considerably out-of-date and Positive Solutions had refused to update it. I didnt think  
Positive Solutions had made it clear to Mrs S that she could take the offer and still 
complain to us about the other  aspects  of her complaint. I also thought she was entitled 
to ask us to consider whether the offer was fair and reasonable. And I didnt think  she 
should lose out financially as a result.
In response to my provisional decision Positive Solutions refused to update Mrs Ss redress  
calculation. It said it couldnt find out from the policy provider  when  the premiums  stopped  
being paid because it didnt have authority from Mrs S to do so. And it shouldnt  have  to 
update it anyway because the reason  the calculation was considerably out-of-date was 
because this service delayed addressing this part of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept my findings. They provided some additional evidence from 
2014/15 and said, in summary,  that:
The adviser said he was independent  but later confirmed this was not the case.
Theyve discussed their situation  with other independent financial advisers who all agree 
the advice Mr S was given in respect of policies A and B was unsuitable.
Mr S accepts  he was over-insured but he always wanted to be covered for 75% of his 
existing salary. They couldnt afford to live on anything less than that.
The advisers recommendation  to reduce the benefits payable under policy B was made 
based on the assumption Mr Ss pension would pay out in the event of illness. But that 
didnt happen  when Mr S actually fell ill in April 2017. And, had he not returned  to work 
after 18 months he would have lost his job and his entire  pension.
Mr S agreed to amend the policy benefit to £937  because the adviser  said that was the 
maximum amount hed ever be able to claim. The adviser  dismissed any questions he 
asked or concerns he raised about  this.
Mrs S did contact  the policy provider direct  to get some quotes. But he did so only to 
help expedite matters.  Whether  he understood the policy  amendments  is irrelevant.  He 
sought advice  and that advice  was not suitable given his circumstances. The adviser  
should be held liable  for the shortfall in his income since  he made  a claim on policy B.
Ref: DRN94086123The adviser knew about policy A from their first phone call and they showed him all the 
information they had about it during their first meeting.  If he felt that policy had been  mis-
sold then he shouldve  helped  them to complain about it in the same way he did with 
policy B. He left out any mention of this policy in his paperwork because he said he 
wasnt permitted to recommend its cancellation.
The adviser admitted  during a review  in December 2017  that hed made a mistake  but it 
was too late to correct  it because  a claim had already been made.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs S have said and the new evidence theyve 
provided, which has helped to fill in a few gaps. But, overall, Im not persuaded to change  my 
mind. I wont  repeat  everything I said in my provisional decision (and have summarised  
above), but I would say that:
Mr S accepts  policy B provided  a far greater benefit than he could actually  claim on, 
giving his salary at the time. So its not clear to me why he took out policy A, but the 
suggestion is another adviser sold him it. Ive already accepted that Positive Solutions 
adviser did know about this policy. But the recent evidence Mr S has provided suggests 
the recommendation to stick with policy B related, at least  in part, to it being  cheaper 
than policy A. It does look like Mr S was interested in reducing what  he was paying for 
income protection and the adviser  highlighted some of the differences between  the two 
policies. I dont  know why the adviser didnt recommend him to pursue a complaint about 
the sale of policy  A, but it could have been because  itd been on risk for such a short  
time and Mr S was free to cancel it at any point. And, on the face of it, Ms S should still 
be free to pursue a complaint about the sale of that policy,  if he wants  to.
Mr S has provided evidence which shows the adviser made enquiries with his employer 
about the pension benefit that might  be paid if he were to fall ill and be unable  to work. 
And the employee  said that, depending  on the severity of the illness  and the employees 
ability to eventually take on other  work,  an early pension payment may be made up until 
normal pension age. No mention  is made of the situation Mr S now described  that the 
pension would be withdrawn entirely  if he didnt return  to work within  18 months. 
I accept the adviser was the expert in the relationship. But Mr Ss correspondence  with 
the adviser and the policy provider suggest to me that he had a good understanding of 
the policy, the benefits and the income  he wanted to receive  in the event  he was unable  
to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment. And if he truly didnt agree with the 
adviser's recommendation  in the way he suggests   he could have walked away from 
the relationship  and, potentially, sought advice elsewhere before making any changes  to 
the policy. As I said in my provisional  decision,  Im satisfied various benefit options  were 
explored and, while  Im sorry to hear Mr S was ultimately left short  when he fell ill, I dont 
think it would be fair to hold Positive Solutions  responsible for the losses  he has claimed.
I still think Positive Solutions should  update  Mrs Ss loss calculation, for the same 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.  And I think  it should 
Ref: DRN94086124liaise with Mrs S in order to get a letter of authority to enable  it to obtain the information 
necessary to perform  this calculation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Limited to ascertain when Mrs S stopped paying her policy premiums 
and then pay her:
A sum equal  to a refund of all the premiums Mrs S has paid to the policy from inception 
to the date of my final decision; plus
Interest* on the refunded premiums calculated at 8% simple  a year from the date each 
premium was paid to the date settlement is made;  and
The £250 additional compensation offered in the final response  letter.
*Positive Solutions  is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct  tax from any interest 
paid. Should Mrs S request it Positive  Solutions should provide her with a certificate showing 
how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408612