K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1987. Mr W says Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B) mis-sold  this cover to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in July 2019, setting out why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any further submissions 
or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Both parties  received my provisional decision and said they were happy for me to issue  a 
final decision  now. 
Neither party provided any new information about the case. So Ive reconsidered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  
The crux of this complaint is how the PPI was described in the mortgage application Mr W 
was asked to complete  and sign. In my provisional  decision  I comprehensively  explained 
that the section  about PPI wasnt clear enough.  I said that the assumption was clearly  that 
the mortgage applicant would agree to the PPI because to decline it, they needed to 
specifically say so  otherwise it would get added.  
Those selling  these types of policy had a duty to demonstrate that consumers had a choice 
and I dont think B&B did this. Given the other features of the case, which  Ive described  
below, I believe Mr W was mis-sold the cover, so Im therefore upholding his complaint in 
full.
what B&B should  do to put matters right 
B&B should  put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. It should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year before April 1993 and 8% after that .
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr W a certificate  showing  
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint  and I direct Bradford & Bingley plc to pay the compensation as 
outlined above . 
Ref: DRN92898582Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92898583summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 
1987. Mr W says Bradford  & Bingley  plc (B&B) mis-sold this cover to him.
background
Im really  sorry this complaint has been with us for so long.
There are a few reasons for this but a major  one is that a legal case has affected many  complaints 
like the one Mr W has asked us to look at. This has taken a while to go through the courts but I can 
now issue a decision.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this case a while  ago and said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
They wrote  to Mr W with this view but he didnt agree  with this. He asked  for an ombudsman to look at 
their complaint and issue a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having looked very carefully and thoroughly over all the documents and information we have from 
the sale,  Im considering upholding Mr Ws complaint in full. But Im giving the parties a final 
opportunity to tell me about  anything they think Ive missed  or anything else they think I ought to 
consider.
It seems Mr W took a mortgage out with B&B back in July 1987.  At the same meeting he was sold a 
PPI policy.  We know this because we still have the original  application form where Mr W was asked  
about having PPI with his new mortgage.
B&B says Mr W chose  the PPI and it was sold to him properly, but Im afraid with the information  I 
currently have, I dont  agree with this. 
This is because the relevant section on the mortgage application form about the PPI doesnt  appear 
to me to be clear  enough.
The relevant section is headed  Payment Protection Plan. In my view,  theres  a clear  assumption at 
this point that the consumer will buy the PPI cover and from the way the form is set out, I don't  think it 
would've been clear  enough  that Mr W didn't need to take out the PPI. The choice simply wasnt made  
clear.
I say this because I note there are other sections on the form about  other types of insurance. But 
these sections  appear to provide much clearer yes or no choices  about buying them.  No such option 
was available for the PPI. And I cant see any reason why this would be the case  other than to put 
forward the PPI cover as something the consumers  ought to buy.
For example, the application form directs Mr W to enter the amount of PPI cover he wants  to have 
without first giving him a choice. To decline PPI he would need to specifically  say so by putting  an x 
into a box related to the monthly PPI premium. Much further down the form I note it says "The society  
will arrange for the property  and payment  protection insurance to be effected unless instructed  
otherwise. 
Ref: DRN92898584None of this is particularly clear  and this doesnt look to me like a choice. In short,  what this means  is 
that the PPI will be added - unless its specifically de-selected by the applicant.  I dont think  this is fair 
and I can therefore understand why Mr W would have thought he had to buy the policy. 
Thinking about everything we know about Mr W and what weve been told about  this case,  I dont 
think he would have fully understood he had a choice. Those selling this type of PPI had a duty to 
make these things clear and tell consumers they didnt need to buy it if they didnt want  to. 
I dont think the optionality of the PPI was made clear. So Im currently intending to uphold the 
complaint.
what B&B should do to put matters  right 
B&B should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI. It should:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
is 15% a year before April 1993 and 8% after that .
If Mr W made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr W a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to uphold Mr Ws complaint in full and direct Bradford & 
Bingley plc to pay him all the compensation as Ive outlined above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 4 
August 2019  after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN9289858