K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a search  made  on Mr As credit file in connection  with a mortgage  
application made to Newcastle  Building Society.  Mr A says the search  wasnt  authorised  and 
has done him damage.
background
Mr A brought the complaint after finding a search had been done on his credit  file; he has set 
up password protection and says the search is a data protection breach.  
Newcastle explained  that the search had been carried  out on its behalf by a mortgage broker 
that had presented it with an application for a buy-to-let mortgage  from Mr A. The search 
only got as far as the point where  Mr As password was required. However, because the 
application didnt  meet Newcastles lending criteria (the property wasnt  acceptable  security)  
it was aborted  without  Mr A being asked  for his password to complete the credit  search.
Our investigator didnt  think Newcastle  had done anything wrong. Mr A maintains hes the 
victim of a data protection breach and had asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Mr A; I dont  think  Newcastle  has done  anything wrong either.
In asking for a decision from an ombudsman, Mr A said we must  produce evidence that hes 
consented to any random mortgage broker or bank making an application  on his behalf.
Its not the role of the ombudsman service  to produce evidence  at the behest of a party  to a 
complaint. Were independent and impartial, and dont conduct our investigations at anyone 
elses direction. Our role is to consider the evidence  produced by the parties, and then 
decide the complaint on the basis of that evidence.
Here, Newcastle has presented persuasive  evidence of a mortgage application having been 
received from Mr A via a broker  not a random broker, but a specifically-named  broker and 
relating to a specific  property. That application  included a section named Permission  to 
Credit Score. Newcastle  could reasonably  take submission of the application to mean Mr A 
had consented  to a search being  carried out.
In contrast, Mr A has produced no evidence of any damage to his credit profile as a 
consequence of that search having  been  recorded on it. He hasnt even sent us his credit file 
to assess.
If Mr A didnt initiate that application, thats something he can take up with the broker  if he 
wishes. But insofar  as this complaint has been  brought against Newcastle Building Society, 
theres no proper basis  for me to find in Mr As favour.
Ref: DRN96887682my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9688768