K821x#15complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans that Myjar provided to Mr L from December 
2017 onwards.  Mr Ls last loan was provided in January 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  and thought  that he shouldnt have been  provided 
with loans three and four. Myjar disagreed. So the complaint  was passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr L, I think that Myjar shouldnt 
have provided  loans three and four. 
I say this because  the information Myjar gathered before providing loan three showed that 
Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing. And he was provided with loan 3 the day after repaying 
loan 2. I accept  that there was a break between loan three and four. But it looks  like there  
were failed applications in this time period and Myjar will have been aware that the balance 
Ref: DRN91623322on some  of his other accounts had increased  during this period of time. The combination of 
these factors ought reasonably to have alerted Myjar to the fact that that any further lending 
was more likely than not unsustainable for Mr L. 
Mr L had to pay, or is being expected to pay, interest and charges on loans that Myjar 
shouldnt have provided him with. So I think that he lost out and Myjar should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all the interest  and charges applied to loan four from the outset. The 
payments Mr L has made to loan four should  then be deducted from the amount Mr L 
was originally lent. It is likely that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan four 
after all adjustments have been  made and Myjar can offset any compensation due on 
loan three from this should it wish to do so.  
any adverse information recorded about  loans three and four should  be removed 
from Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  MYJAR Limited  
should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9162332