K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs N complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC sold some of their shares instead of 
transferring them to another provider.
background
Mr C and Mrs N had a trading account  with Barclays and owned shares  in a company 
(company A). In May 2018  company  A announced  it was likely to be taken over by a foreign 
company (company B). The acquisition was subject  to a number of conditions  but was 
expected to go ahead in 2019. Company A announced in December 2018,  that the takeover 
would be completed  in January 2019.   
Barclays told Mr C and Mrs N that their account  wouldnt be able to support shares in 
company B because  they werent listed on the UK stock exchange. Mr C and Mrs N were  
given the option of selling their shares in company A or transferring them to another provider 
before the takeover was completed.  Barclays said if Mr C and Mrs N took no action their 
shares would  automatically be sold.
Mr C and Mrs N decided to transfer  their shares  to another provider. They sent a transfer 
form to the new provider. But the transfer  request didnt go through  by the deadline  set and 
so Barclays sold the shares.
Mr C and Mrs N complain they didnt want to sell the shares as their value was significantly 
lower than when  theyd bought them about  two years before. They say Barclays  is 
responsible for the shares not being transferred  to the new provider in time.
Barclays say they werent responsible for the transfer not going  ahead.  They say they 
received the transfer request after the deadline  that had been  set and the shares  had 
already been sold. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. Mr C and Mrs N disagree and have asked  for an ombudsman  to make  a final 
decision.
     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at what information Mr C and Mrs N were given about the takeover of 
company A and the options they had. 
Barclays have provided a copy of a corporate  action notice, which appears to be dated 
September 2018. They say Mr C and Mrs N would  have  had access  to the notice when they 
logged in to their account. 
The notice said the takeover of company A was likely to go ahead in 2019 subject to a 
number of conditions.  It gave the proposed terms of the acquisition and said Mr C and 
Mrs Ns account wouldnt be able to support  shares  in company B. It said they had the option 
of selling their shares or transferring them to another provider. If they took no action, 
Barclays would sell the shares prior to company A delisting.
Ref: DRN92083282I cant be sure that Mr C and Mrs N read the notice. But Im satisfied that Barclays provided 
them with information  about the proposed  corporate action in a way that was readily 
accessible. And they did so about three months before the takeover went  ahead.  
Company A announced on 5 December 2018  that the takeover was going ahead.  
Barclays have provided a copy of an online notice they made available after that. The notice 
confirmed the options available to Mr C and Mrs N and gave the key dates. 
Again, I cant  be sure if Mr C and Mrs N would have seen the online notice. But Im satisfied 
the information was made  available to them. And on 11 December Barclays  sent Mr C and 
Mrs N a letter enclosing details of the corporate action. The letter  said that 20 December 
was the last date on which a transfer  of shares  could be initiated. If not, their shares in 
company A would be sold on or around 21 December.  
The letter said that if Mr C and Mrs N decided to transfer their shares, theyd need to contact  
an alternative provider  and ask them to instruct a transfer. The instruction would have to be 
with the Barclays  transfer team and completed before company A delisted  from the stock  
exchange. If not, the default action would be to sell the shares in company A.  
Mr C and Mrs N decided to transfer  their shares  to another provider. They filled out a 
transfer form, dated 16 December, and sent it to the new provider. That was just four days 
before the deadline theyd been given.
On 17 December Mr C called Barclays. Ive listened  to a recording of that call. Mr C told 
Barclays hed sent a transfer  form to the new provider and wanted someone at Barclays to 
put a note on the system to say the transfer  should be expedited. The adviser  said Barclays 
hadnt received  the transfer request, but hed make a diary  note to check  and once it was 
received, hed add a note of Mr Cs request.
The new provider contacted Barclays on 19 December. Barclays have  said the new provider 
was making an information request for a valuation of Mr C and Mrs Ns shareholdings.  
Theyve provided a screenshot to show thats  how they recorded the communication they 
received on 19 December.
Mr C and Mrs N disagree with Barclays  explanation. They say the new provider was making 
a transfer request. And this was only rejected because  Barclays mistakenly included the 
cash balance on the account rather than just the value of the shares in company A.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think that - at that stage - the new provider was 
requesting information on the value of Mr C and Mrs Ns holdings. That was in line with the 
standard process when arranging a transfer.
Barclays provided the new provider with information  on 20 December  that included  details of 
Mr C and Mrs Ns shares  and cash  holdings. Barclays have said they received the 
completed transfer request from the new provider  on 21 December. Theyve provided a copy  
of an email sent by the new provider saying theyd excluded cash  from the request. 
The new provider also called Barclays to try and make sure the transfer went ahead.  But as 
the 20 December  deadline had passed, Mr C and Mrs Ns shares had already been included  
in the bulk sale of shares that Barclays processed  on 21 December. 
Ref: DRN92083283It must have been very frustrating for Mr C and Mrs N to find out that their shares had been 
sold. They  wanted  the shares to be transferred and instructed a new provider.  They also 
called Barclays to ask that the transfer  be expedited.  So I can understand why they thought  
theyd done what  was necessary to ensure the transfer took place.
But the key question I need  to look at is whether Barclays did anything wrong. In order to 
uphold this complaint,  I need to be satisfied that they did, and that Mr C and Mrs Ns shares  
were sold as result. 
Im satisfied that Barclays gave Mr C and Mrs N enough information about the corporate 
action and the options available to them. As well as the notices  published online,  Barclays  
also wrote  to Mr C and Mrs N on 11 December with the same  information. The timetable for 
transferring shares  was by then very tight,  but it had only been  announced the previous 
week that the takeover was going  ahead.  
Ive looked carefully  at the detailed information provided by both sides on the transfer 
process. And I dont  think Ive got enough  evidence to say that Barclays were responsible for 
the transfer not going ahead in time. 
Mr C and Mrs N completed the transfer form on 16 December and the new provider 
contacted Barclays  on 19 December. Barclays responded to the new providers information 
request the following  day. Their response included both the share and cash holdings,  which  
Mr C and Mrs N say was a mistake.  But even  if it had just included  a valuation  of the shares,  
the next step was for the new provider to submit  a transfer request. 
The new provider did that on 21 December. Thats the point at which  the transfer process  
would have started,  but the request  was made  one day after the deadline. 
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly say that Barclays caused unnecessary delay or acted 
unreasonably. I note also that Mr C and Mrs N should have been aware for some time that 
they would  need to transfer their shares, but only started the process  a few days before the 
deadline. 
Mr C and Mrs N have said they didnt  think the shares would be sold until 4 January. 
But having  looked at the information provided  by Barclays,  I think  it should have been clear  
that the shares would  be sold on or around 21 December. 
I note that Mr C and Mrs N said Barclays  should compensate them  because  their shares 
were sold at a loss in comparison  to the price they paid for them.  But even if I did think 
Barclays had done something wrong,  I wouldnt be asking them to compensate Mr C and 
Mrs N for that loss. Barclays werent responsible  for changes in the share price of 
company A.
 
My approach  would  instead have been  to try and put Mr C and Mrs N back  in the position  
they would  have been if nothing had gone  wrong and their shares had been transferred to 
the new provider.  I would  have taken account of the cash and shares  (in company  B) that 
Mr C and Mrs N would  have received in exchange for their shares  in company A when the 
takeover completed. I would also have looked at whether Mr C and Mrs N could reasonably  
have done anything to mitigate  any losses. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr C and Mrs N, but I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN92083284my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Ns 
complaint against  Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9208328