K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs L said she was not made  aware  the PPI was optional. Halifax  has said it would have 
made the optional  nature of the policy clear and would have got Mrs Ls consent  to add 
the policy. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened  taking into account all the evidence thats 
available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Mrs Ls personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected.  From  what  
we know more generally about how Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely 
there would have been a conversation with the Halifax representative about PPI prior to 
the details being entered  on the application  and Mrs L has signed the application so 
I think this reflected what she wanted. If she didnt want the PPI she could have 
questioned this at the time.  
So overall I think Halifax made Mrs L aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, 
and she agreed  to take the policy at the time.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said - including what she has told us about her sick 
pay. Mrs L has said she wouldve got six months full sick pay followed by six months half 
sick pay from her employer. But this policy couldve paid Mrs L a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work through an accident or sickness and this wouldve been in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs L mightve  had. It wouldve  also covered her if she lost her  job 
for up to 12 months. Again this would have been in addition  to any redundancy payment she 
may have  got. So I think she couldve found  the policy useful. So these points dont change 
my decision.
Ref: DRN95866042This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mrs L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs L now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt 
done so already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9586604