K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined  a claim for subsidence damage to 
his conservatory.
background
Around 2008 a conservatory was added by the previous owners to what is now Mr Ws 
home. In June 2018 Mr W noticed  some cracks when decorating. These  were  filled as part 
of the decorations, but within a matter  of weeks the cracks  had reopened. Having been  told 
this might be due to subsidence, Mr W contacted Aviva. 
Aviva sent out a firm of loss adjusters to inspect the damage. It was noted  the floor was 
sloping and there  was distortion in the flank walls  along with distortion of the door into the 
garden. It was concluded the damage  was either due to settlement or root-induced clay 
shrinkage. Some further investigations  were  undertaken.
The ground investigations took samples from two points near Mr Ws conservatory  one 
either side. It was identified that the conservatory  was built on 35cm foundations.  Beneath  
that there  was made ground to a depth  of 0.6m from ground level. Made ground is the term 
used for soil that has been  imported to a site, usually  used for levelling purposes. Beneath 
the made ground was soft slightly sandy, silty clay which became firm at 1.1m  and 1.6m 
below ground  level respectively in the two samples taken. The clay was determined  to have 
a medium plasticity and so would shrink if dehydrated. In the sample taken from the right of 
the conservatory, closest to nearby trees, roots were found  down to 1.1m.  In the sample  to 
the left of the conservatory roots were only found down to 35cm.
The arboriculture report detailed there  were three large trees within  8.5m of the 
conservatory, with the two willows  being the dominant influence.  All were considered to be of 
a similar  age to the house and all three species were known to have high water  
requirements. In addition there were two smaller trees within 4.5m  of the conservatory  that 
could also have been influencing  the hydration  of the soil. It was recommended  the three 
large trees be removed.
Avivas experts concluded the foundations of the conservatory were inadequate   they 
should have been much deeper (1m) given  the presence of made ground,  clay beneath  it 
and trees nearby. It said that some of the damage  would have been caused  by bedding-in 
settlement and the remainder due to the reduction in water content  due to the dry summer. 
Aviva explained  that damage caused  because of faulty design was not covered by the 
policy, so the claim was declined.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and referred  his complaint to us. In doing so Mr W said that he 
accepted the foundations were inadequate. However, he said that was only one factor  as 
Aviva had confirmed the trees had caused  the ground to dehydrate  and it had been  the 
hottest, driest summer  for many years. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She recommended it be upheld. This was 
because she wasnt persuaded that even if the conservatory had foundations to the depth 
Aviva thought were  necessary, that it would have stopped the subsidence from happening. 
This was because there would still have been  tree roots beneath the foundation  level.  
Ref: DRN99236282Aviva didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It said that it was not its role to investigate 
what would  have happened had the foundation  been  adequate. It quoted  some  industry  
guidance for the design of foundations, taking the surrounding environment into account: 
The depths  are not those  at which root activity, desiccation and ground movement are non 
existent, but they are intended to provide an acceptable level of risk. It was satisfied that 
although there would have been  some roots beneath the foundation level,  they would not 
necessarily have been problematic.  It remained of the view that its decision to decline the 
claim had been  the right one. It asked that the complaint  be referred to an ombudsman for 
review.
Mr W accepted the investigators conclusions.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February  2020 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
When the previous  owners of Mr Ws home  had the conservatory built it didnt need 
planning permission,  so building regulations and any associated guidance didnt need to 
be complied with. Its not unusual to find conservatories built with relatively shallow 
foundations as a conservatory is usually a light structure and so the load it represents is 
easy to transfer effectively into the ground. 
That said,  even though building regulations didnt apply to the conservatory, the 
builder/installer should have  taken account of the ground conditions  when putting in the 
foundations. In very basic terms, any foundation  needs to fulfil its core function of 
providing a stable footing for the structure  above.  
This is reflected in the document Aviva  provided   A Guide to Good Practice  in the 
Specification and Installation of Conservatories  within the UK, issued by the 
Conservatory Association and the Glass and Glazing Federation  in 2007. Whilst the 
document is only a guide, it does set out what two bodies in the conservatory industry 
considered was good practice at the time Mr Ws conservatory was installed. It says:
The type of foundations are always dependent on local ground conditions  and the 
Surveyor should always determine the details of the existing property foundations.
In some instances specialist foundations may be required  for the conservatory, eg. due 
to reclaimed land,  poor ground conditions, or the presence of trees or rock in the area, 
Building Control or a Civil/Structural engineer  may be contacted. 
Aviva has highlighted  that the conservatory  was built on soft made ground and soft 
shrinkable clay in the presence of several trees. I cant disagree with Aviva that those 
conditions should  have been taken  into account  when the foundations were  designed.  
Nor can I say that the evidence indicates they werent  35cm is a shallow foundation 
depth even for a structure as light as a conservatory. I note that Mr W has accepted  the 
foundations were inadequate. 
Mr W has said he accepts  the conclusions about the adequacy of the foundations but 
believes the shallow  foundation depth was not the only factor in play with the movement 
of his conservatory. Hes pointed out the trees influenced the dehydration of the clay and 
that the hot, dry summer  would also have been an influence. I would agree these things 
would have been involved in what happened  to the conservatory, but as far as the trees 
are concerned, their influence is one of the factors that make the foundations inadequate,  
Ref: DRN99236283rather than them being a separate factor in the consideration.  The hot, dry weather may 
have accelerated and maintained any dehydration of the soil caused by the trees, but that 
again comes back to the influencing factor of the trees meaning the foundations were  
inadequate. 
Our investigator accepted the foundations were inadequate, but wasnt persuaded this 
was the dominant  factor  in the conservatory  subsiding. She also accepted Avivas 
engineers explanation about the depth the foundations should have been  just under a 
metre in depth. However, she wasnt persuaded having deeper foundations would have 
made a difference to whether Mr Ws conservatory  subsided or not. This was because  
there were roots below the depth  Avivas engineer calculated the foundations should 
have been dug to. 
Buildings will cope with a certain amount of ground movement because ground  conditions 
will vary throughout a year. During  summer soils will have a lower water  content and 
possibly shrink a little and during winter the water content will increase causing  a clay soil 
to recover its full volume. This is called seasonal movement and doesnt  normally  cause 
damage. Its only when  the degree of movement exceeds the buildings ability to cope 
that damage occurs  and the building is considered to have subsided.
In this case it has been evidenced there were roots from 10cm  to 1.1m below ground 
level, which were removing moisture from the soil around Mr Ws conservatory. In the 
case of the existing foundations this means  there  was up to 0.75m  of shrinkable soil 
containing roots beneath  the foundations. Had they been built in line with Avivas  
engineers assessment that would have  reduced  to just 20cm. Given  the engineer took 
into account the existence, type and distance  of the trees when assessing the depth the 
foundations should have  been, I think it reasonable to accept the expert opinion that they 
would have prevented the movement that caused the damage to the conservatory. 
Overall, I am satisfied Aviva  didnt act inappropriately when it applied the exclusion for 
faulty design and poor workmanship to defeat  Mr Ws claim.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr W did and didnt accept my findings.  
Mr W disputed  Avivas finding  that there had been some hairline cracking present in the 
conservatory due to initial settlement. He said he would have noticed  any such cracking  long 
before 2018 and he believes the hairline cracking was the start of the subsidence. In 
addition, he provided  growth rates for the trees that Aviva had said should  have been  taken 
into account when  the foundations were built. He said that there was no evidence the trees  
had been there when  the conservatory had been built and even if they had been, they may 
have been shorter  than the fences  and so the builders wouldnt have known they were there. 
Mr W also hypothesised about whether  a greater foundation depth would have prevented  the 
subsidence that occurred. He suggested  that as roots were  present beneath  the 
recommended foundation  depth the subsidence  would still have occurred and could only 
have been prevented if the foundations had been 1.5m  down to hard ground. He explained 
that he felt through no fault of his own he was stuck with a hefty  bill to dismantle the 
conservatory, replace  the foundations with adequate  ones and have  it rebuilt  the cost of 
which is likely to be around £20,000.
my findings
Ref: DRN99236284I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including 
Mr Ws recent comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr W has commented about  the conclusions reached by Aviva regarding  the cracking  in the 
conservatory. Whilst I understand why he has made  the comments he has, whether there 
was some settlement  damage or not wouldnt alter my conclusions  in the matter I have 
considered. It would only be a factor if I were  to consider the repairs  needed to the 
conservatory. 
Mr W has suggested the two willow  trees might  not have been  visible  to the builders at the 
time the conservatory  was installed. In order to decide whether this may have been the case, 
I reviewed the sales photographs from 2011  when the property was last sold.  The 
photographs show all of the trees that the arboriculture report recommended being  removed. 
The two trees in neighbours gardens were clearly visible and more  than double  the height of 
the fences. Although the photographs were  taken three years  after the conservatory was 
built, I am satisfied from their size in 2011 and 2018, they would have been visible  to the 
builder in 2008. As such, the builder should  have  factored their existence and future  full size 
into the foundation design.
As for Mr Ws comments about  whether there would have been subsidence if the 
foundations had been deeper, I accept there  can be no guarantees about what  would  have 
happened had the foundations been  deeper. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, in such  technical matters I rely on expert evidence  and opinion.  That says the 
conservatory wouldnt have sustained the damage  it did if the foundations had been 
designed taking  into account the influence of the trees present. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 April 2020
 
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9923628