K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Liverpool  Victoria Friendly Society  Limited has unfairly  added  a 
retrospective exclusion to her Flexible  Protection plan and turned down her claim for critical 
illness benefit. 
background
Mrs C applied for a Flexible  Protection  plan in 2013. The policy  offered a lump sum benefit in 
the event she died or was diagnosed  with a critical illness during the policy  term. 
As part of the application  Mrs C was asked a number of questions  about her health and 
lifestyle. She disclosed that shed experienced abdominal  pain and had an abnormal cervical 
smear test in the past. Because of these disclosures  she was asked to complete a telephone 
interview where she was asked more questions about her health, and she made further 
disclosures. Based on her answers  Liverpool Victoria offered  her cover with a mental health 
exclusion. Cover started on 7 January  2014.   
Mrs C was sadly diagnosed with breast  cancer  and in July 2018 her husband  submitted  a 
claim on her behalf under  the policy. 
Having considered the claim, Liverpool  Victoria turned down Mrs Cs claim and added a 
retrospective exclusion for all claims relating to cancer. It said Mrs C incorrectly  answered  
no to the following questions:
Do you currently or have  you ever had any of the following;
- cancer, tumour, leukaemia, Hodgkins disease or lymphoma?
Were you diagnosed  with cancer or carcinoma of the cervix?
It said her medical records showed  shed  been  diagnosed with cancer before she applied  for 
cover. It said had it known  about this at the time she applied  it wouldnt have been able to 
offer her cover on the same terms. It would have excluded all claims arising directly or 
indirectly from cancer. It gave Mrs C the option to accept the cover on the amended terms, 
or cancel  the policy from the start with a refund of premiums paid. Mrs C chose to cancel  the 
policy and received a refund of premiums  shed paid.
Mrs C complained that Liverpool Victoria had treated her unfairly. She denied  being 
diagnosed with cancer before the policy started. Liverpool Victoria  considered the complaint 
but maintained  it was justified in making  the changes to the policy. 
Mrs Cs mother, who Ill call Mrs G, referred  a complaint to our service  for consideration. She 
said Mrs C hadnt been told she had cancer.  She said Mrs C had been advised,  following an 
abnormal cervical smear  test, that she had a small number of abnormal cells, which could 
have turned into cancer, but that the risk was very small  as the cells had been removed. She 
said her daughter was therefore acting reasonably by answering the questions in the way 
she did.
 
Our investigator considered the complaint,  but didnt uphold  it. He was satisfied that 
Liverpool Victoria had asked Mrs C clear questions that she ought to have been able to 
answer correctly. He was satisfied that the available medical records  showed Mrs C had 
been diagnosed with cancer in 2010, and shed discussed the diagnosis with a number of 
Ref: DRN96283332medical professionals. So he concluded Mrs C shouldve disclosed this on the application. 
He was also persuaded that had Liverpool Victoria known  about her earlier diagnosis, it 
wouldnt have offered her any cover  for cancer. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. In a phone call 
with our investigator, which  Ive listened  to, Mrs G set out her recollections from the time 
Mrs C received the results  from her cone biopsy, which  was completed after the abnormal 
cervical smear test. She described how it had been  explained to Mrs C that the biopsy had 
revealed some suspicious cells which couldve turned  into cancer if left untreated. But as 
theyd been removed they posed a very small risk of cancer.  Mrs G explained that while  her 
daughter hadnt  been  diagnosed  with cancer,  the suggestion that the cells could have 
developed into cancer caused  her a significant  amount of anxiety. She explained  it was a 
result of this that her GP conducted a cancer care review. 
Out investigator acknowledged Mrs Gs recollection of events, but explained that he found 
the medical evidence more  persuasive  in the circumstances.  So he was still of the view that 
Mrs C knew, or ought to have known  about the cancer diagnosis.  So he wasnt  persuaded to 
reach a different conclusion. 
The case  has now been referred to me to reach a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs C and her mother. I dont want to add to the distress theyve 
experienced in bringing this complaint, but Id like to explain  how Ive reached this decision. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
As part of the application, Mrs C was advised of the importance of answering all questions 
truthfully and accurately . Liverpool  Victoria also sent her a copy of her answers and 
advised her to check the answers carefully  as she hadnt completed the application herself.  
They advised if any of the information  was later discovered to be incorrect it may lead to a 
claim not being paid,  or the policy being  cancelled. So Ive considered whether Mrs C 
answered the questions truthfully and accurately. 
When completing the application,  Mrs C answered that shed never  had cancer or carcinoma 
of the cervix. Based on her medical records this answer appears to be incorrect. 
In a letter dated 10 May 2010 Mrs Cs consultant  gynaecological surgeon,  wholl  call Dr I, 
said I will see her again for a further  smear in six months time in view of the finding of very 
early invasive cervical cancer  on cone  biopsy.  The diagnosis was also confirmed within 
Ref: DRN96283333Mrs Cs GP records, which note Cone  biopsyshowsa very small focus of squamous  
carcinoma and malignant tumour of the cervix.
While I appreciate that the cancer was in the very early stages, and was treated successfully 
with little risk of recurrence, Im nevertheless persuaded that Mrs C had been diagnosed with 
cancer before she applied  for cover. So I think Liverpool Victoria was justified in concluding 
that Mrs C had given  the wrong answer  when  applying  for cover.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs G has told us about why Mrs C didnt believe shed 
been diagnosed with cancer. I can see from the records  that Mrs C was reassured  following 
her diagnosis. And I think its likely the diagnosis was talked about in terms of abnormal or 
suspicious cells, as Mrs G recalls.  
But considering the evidence as a whole, I think its more likely than not that Mrs C knew, or 
at the very least ought to have known,  shed been  diagnosed with cancer. Ive reached this 
view because of the number of references to the cancer diagnosis within Mrs Cs medical  
records, and Mrs Cs understandable concerns about it. I found it particularly significant  that 
in September  2011, following another cervical smear test, her GP notes record very anxious 
about yesterdays  smear  worried  in case the cancer has returned. In September  2014 
another note records very worried about  recurrence of cervical cancer . Given that these 
notes relate  to conversations Mrs C had with different medical professionals, who werent 
involved in her initial treatment, I think the references to cancer are likely to have mirrored 
the language Mrs C used, rather than reflecting the medical professionals  interpretation of 
her medical history. 
In view of this I think Liverpool Victoria was fair to say that Mrs C had failed to accurately 
answer the application questions, and had misrepresented her state  of health, when 
applying for cover.
What would Liverpool Victoria have done differently?
The action an insurer can take depends  on whether the misrepresentation was deemed to 
be careless, or deliberate or reckless. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mrs C deliberately, or recklessly,  withheld information from 
Liverpool Victoria. I appreciate she likely overlooked the questions  and/or forgot. But even if 
she did, CIDRA sets out that such a misrepresentation should be classed as careless. 
CIDRA explains that where  its found that a consumer has made a careless  
misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled  to take the action it wouldve taken had it known the 
relevant information  at the point of application.  
Liverpool Victoria has demonstrated that had it known  about Mrs Cs earlier diagnosis it 
would still have offered  her cover,  but it would have excluded all claims arising directly or 
indirectly from cancer. 
I can see that Liverpool Victoria gave Mrs C the option to amend her policy  to exclude all 
claims relating to cancer,  which would have resulted in a small reduction in her premiums, or 
to cancel the policy altogether. Mrs C chose to cancel the policy  and received a full refund of 
all the premiums she paid. I think it was fair and reasonable  to give Mrs C the option on 
whether she wanted  to continue with her cover  on the revised terms. While I understand 
Ref: DRN96283334Mrs Gs concerns that the policy has been  cancelled, Im satisfied that this was Mrs Cs 
choice.  
Regardless of which  option Mrs C had chosen there  wouldve been no cover available for 
cancer, so I think its reasonable that Liverpool  Victoria turned down her claim.  
Overall, while  I can understand  Mrs Cs disappointment that shes been  unable to claim 
under the policy,  and now has no cover  in place, I cant conclude that Liverpool Victoria  has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Lisa De Noronha
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9628333