K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
December 2003  alongside a credit  card. Mr T, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. From what Ive seen 
about the card application  process, I think Mr T made a decision to take out the policy. Ive 
seen that on his application  form a box was marked with an X to show  hed chosen PPI. I 
think he would have  had the opportunity to review  his application and discuss  it with his BoS 
representative at the meeting before making his decision to buy the policy  and then sign the 
application form. 
Ive also noticed  that those representing  Mr T have suggested he was pressured into taking 
the policy. Pressure is something thats very difficult to prove, especially given that the sale 
took place so long ago and happened in a meeting.  Whilst I dont doubt Mr T has given us 
his best recollection  of what happened,  I think  its unlikely he was told he had to take out PPI 
to get the credit card. And Ive kept in mind  that theres a real difference  between being told 
that its a good  thing  to have PPI and being told he must take it. 
 I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr T at a meeting  in branch  even though Mr T 
isnt so sure about  this and thinks he may have  bought the PPI over the telephone.  As a 
recommendation, BoS had to check that the PPI was right for him. And based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  I say this given that 
it would  pay out in addition the existing benefits he was receiving from his employer if he 
was unable to work.  And it would pay out for longer  up to 12 months  than his existing  
benefits. The PPI would  also pay out if he lost his job - and it would always  be paid on top of 
his employer benefits. So he wouldnt have to rely on other  sources of funding  to help out. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
Mr T made in response to our adjudicators opinion, they dont affect my decision. 
Ref: DRN98327212So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr T paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr T back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS might not have yet paid this to Mr T. Now that Ive 
issued my decision, if it hasnt already, BoS can make  arrangements to pay the offer sum to 
Mr T. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
 Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832721