K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Ms L are unhappy with the delays to their HSBC UK Bank Plc mortgage  
application.
background 
Mr T and Ms L applied for a mortgage  to buy a property. They  are unhappy about what  they 
consider to be extremely poor service. This includes  a failure of the underwriter to return 
Ms Ls numerous calls,  many errors  with the online application system which included 
changing the solicitor acting  for the bank and incorrect information being  provided regarding 
whether HSBC will lend money for the purchase of a freehold property which  is subject to a 
service charge. In the end Mr T and Ms L obtained  a mortgage elsewhere.  
HSBC in its final response accepted it made  mistakes when it failed to respond  to Ms Ls 
calls to the underwriter.  It didnt, however,  agree with Mr T and Ms Ls other complaints. It 
offered Mr T and Ms L £300 compensation.
In her first view the investigator  agreed with HSBC and Mr T and Ms L that HSBC 
underwriters should  have responded to Ms Ls calls. The investigator  noted that Mr T made 
nine calls regarding issues with his application  and only in one call did HSBC make  Mr T 
aware that the problems he was experiencing may be due to the browser he was using. She 
didnt think it was fair that it took seven calls for him to get this advice. She also didnt think it 
was fair that when  Mr T amended the application online, all of the information  reverted  back  
to the default position  which resulted in the specified  choice of solicitor reverting back to a 
panel solicitor. She didnt  think  it was unreasonable for Mr T to have  thought that the details  
he had entered  previously  would stay the same rather  than reverting to defaults. She 
couldnt see any warning  from the application  system telling him this would happen. This 
also wasnt explained in any of the calls she had listened to. Although Mr T and Ms L havent 
been charged by the panel solicitors  she did think  that the information being  passed to the 
wrong solicitor would have been a concern and may have added to the delays due to Mr T 
and Ms Ls solicitor not being able to access to the case. She didnt think  she could ask 
HSBC to refund the charges for the arrangement, property valuation and legal fees because 
the services have been provided and the fees are non-refundable. She felt the £300 HSBC 
had offered as compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused was in line with what she 
would have suggested.
Mr T and Ms L responded to her view and explained that they felt the compensation offered 
didnt reflect what they had experienced. They had thought they were  opting for a simple 
process by going  with an online application and instead were  making  calls daily for months. 
They had lost out on the property they wanted  to purchase due to the delays. They said that 
because of the delays they had to purchase  a more expensive property because it was the 
only equivalent one left on the development. The said they suffered stress over multiple 
months.
Ref: DRN96422072In the investigators  second view she said she had seen emails from the developer selling 
the house to Mr T and Ms L saying it would have to put the house  back on the market.  She 
felt this would have caused Mr T and Ms L a great  deal of stress. In the end Mr T and Ms L 
bought a more expensive  property on the same development as the property they originally 
wanted was sold to someone else.  The investigator didnt think that Mr T and Ms L had 
suffered a financial loss because  although Mr T and Ms L had to pay more  for the new 
property the new property had a higher value. But she did think  that losing out on the 
property they wanted  to purchase would have caused them  a great deal of trouble and 
upset. Also they had the added worry of paying  for a more  expensive property. Taking this 
into account she didnt  think  the compensation HSBC had offered of £300 was enough. She 
thought HSBC should pay a further £300.
HSBC didnt agree with the second  view. It said it thought the compensation offered in its 
final response letter was fair. It said not all the delays were caused by it.
Mr T and Ms L have also asked for an ombudsmans decision given the duration and 
intensity of the stress they experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr T and Ms Ls considerable frustration with what they experienced. They 
encountered problem  after problem.  Some of those problems were  clearly the responsibility 
of the bank  such as failing to return Ms Ls calls.
HSBC says, however,  that not all the delays were caused by it. I can see its point. I think it is 
most likely that many  of the problems were  caused by the settings on the computers Mr T 
used. I think this because  when the investigator asked HSBC about  problems  with its 
systems it said it wasnt aware of any in the relevant period. I dont think HSBC  can be held 
responsible for the settings on the computer Mr T used. But as the investigator  pointed out in 
her first view Mr T made many  calls before HSBC suggested he needed  to make changes  to 
the settings for his browser.  I also agree  with the investigator that it wasnt unreasonable  for 
Mr T to have thought  that the details  he had entered previously  regarding  his solicitor  would  
stay the same rather than reverting to defaults.  I note HSBC  has made changes to its 
systems since  Mr T last used it and that the system  no longer  reverts  to the default solicitor.  
Although Mr T and Ms L will be probably  be pleased to hear this, I do think that they suffered  
unnecessary stress when  the wrong solicitor was appointed.
In the end Mr T and Ms L chose to use a different lender to buy their property, the final straw 
appearing to be over whether HSBC  would lend on properties in the development. I can 
understand why they did this. But I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to 
expect HSBC to refund  any of the fees they paid it. These were  stated to be non-refundable 
and they received the service they had paid for. Whilst I think  HSBC could have done more  
to help Mr T and Ms L I dont hold HSBC responsible for all of the delays. 
Ref: DRN96422073It is very unfortunate that Mr T and Ms L lost out on their first choice property and had to pay 
more for their second choice property. This must  have been extremely  upsetting at what was 
meant to be a very happy  time. They do now have a house  with an additional  feature and I 
hope they have settled  in well. I cant see that they have suffered a financial loss because 
although they spent more  they bought a house with a higher value. 
The investigator recommended  compensation of £600. HSBC thinks this is too high because 
it wasnt responsible  for all the delays. I, however, think  it is a fair amount to pay for the 
distress and inconvenience it did cause when it failed to return calls and explain to Mr T what 
he needed to do to his computer to enable him effectively to use its systems. Both the 
investigator and I have found that HSBC was more at fault than it accepted in its final 
response letter and I think the additional  compensation fairly reflects  the additional stress 
caused by its errors.
I appreciate Mr T and Ms L found  the whole experience to be extremely  stressful  and time 
consuming and would like a higher award.  Buying a house is stressful  and time consuming. 
Things dont always  go smoothly and I think a certain amount of inconvenience  and irritation 
with the process  is to be expected. Here,  however, for the reasons Ive given HSBC failed 
repeatedly to respond to Mr T and Ms L effectively. I think  the £600 Im awarding fairly  
compensates them  for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr T and Ms L 
£600.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9642207