K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that goods  and services purchased through a fixed  sum loan financed by 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (BPF) were  not of satisfactory  quality. He brings  the 
claim under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ps complaint in my provisional decision.  Ill summarise it 
again here.
Mr P ordered some  new windows and doors  from a supplier Ill refer to as S. He entered 
into a fixed sum loan with BPF on 25 July 2017  to pay for them. The agreement indicates 
that the loan advance was £3,485.00  with a total amount payable of £3,585.00 over a period  
of 24 months. Mr P committed to monthly repayments of £145.21  when he agreed to the 
Terms and Conditions  of the finance.
After the windows were  fitted, Mr P said he was very unhappy with the standard  of 
workmanship and noticed several faults.  He contacted the retailer S on several occasions 
but, despite attempts at remedial work,  Mr P said faults remained and hes lost faith in S. 
He also said that as S had previously damaged his property he doesnt want it to return.
On 2 October 2017, Mr P contacted BPF to complain that one of his windows is the wrong 
size; the retailer  has damaged some tiles; and a door has three different colours.  BPF 
recorded this as a Section 75 claim and contacted S to investigate Mr Ps complaint.
S carried  out a survey, identified what it referred  to as cosmetic  faults, and agreed to 
carry out repairs. After doing so, Mr P contacted BPF again to advise them the repairs  hadnt 
been carried out in full; that further  issues  had come to light; and Mr P now wanted all the 
windows replaced  or a 75% discount  on the goods. BPF contacted S again and it said it 
would get a manager out to inspect and assess the situation.
Mr P said S had not only fitted goods  that were not of satisfactory quality, but had damaged  
his property and been rude to him when hed complained. As a result,  Mr P said he didnt 
want S to visit his property again - but he reluctantly  agreed  to a further inspection in 
December 2017.
Following this inspection  S provided  a job sheet detailing seven areas  that needed to be 
repaired, corrected  or reinstalled. It read:
1. kitchen install complete  new outer frame clean  trim seal
2. porch  roof remove  debris left on the roof protect with 18mm  ply as we work on the 
window above
3. bathroom although the frame is in the correct position relevant to the outer building  fabric 
the internal linings are ever so slightly off set remove window adjust ribs if required to 
align centrally with the inner linings clean trim and seal
4. downstairs bedroom remove both existing cap pit cell covers install  new to both
apertures clean and seal
5. back door  adjust  the latch and locking mechanism to ensure door locks and is secure. 
Install a new black tilt and turn bottom hinge  cover  cap
6. back bedroom  de-glaze fixed double glaze  unit install a d trim to the fixed  jamb  seal  in 
brown
Ref: DRN906144127. all trims outside - all outside trims  need  sealing to the frames in white  [tape frame and 
trim] all jamb trims  need sealing at the bottom edge in white  to the cell - see photo with 
notes.
S said it wasnt  willing  to agree to a 75% discount,  or to pay a third party to complete the 
works. S confirmed that it remained committed to resolving the issues. It sent the report  
and a schedule  of works on 18 January  2018.
Mr P became very frustrated with the length  of time this matter  was taking to resolve. He 
flatly refused to have  S carry out the work and he didnt feel BPF was finding a suitable 
resolution and so he brought his complaint to this service.
BPF acknowledged there had been  slow progress and offered Mr P £50 for the trouble and 
upset this matter had caused.
Our investigator looked into matters; agreed BPF hadnt acted fairly and that Mr P had lost 
faith in S; and suggested a third party carry out the repairs  at no cost to Mr P. BPF agreed  
and suggested  Mr P obtains  some quotes  from a third party retailer  to carry out the work. 
Mr P tried a number of retailers  but was unable to find anyone who would agree to correct 
another suppliers  work, or who were able to supply  matching windows and accessories.
BPF then offered to have  S supply the necessary windows and accessories but have  them 
fitted by an independent  third party. This would ensure the windows that needed  replacing  
and the other works would result in matching doors  and windows. The goods  would  also be 
covered under the same warranty.
Mr P disagreed. He says he has lost all faith in S and as BPF hadnt informed him of who 
the third party  fitter will be, he isnt sure this will be a satisfactory  outcome. He wants  to be 
compensated for the windows, which he will replace once  he is in a better financial position. 
So he asked for an ombudsmans review.
In my provisional findings I considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I said I can understand 
why Mr P is upset over the experience hes had. What should  have been a relatively simple 
matter of the supply  and fitting of some  new windows and a door has now dragged on for 
nearly two years - and faults remain.
As time has passed,  the issues  relating to this complaint appear  to have grown  in
complexity. Mr P was understandably reluctant to allow  S to attempt  to complete repairs -
given the previous history of unsatisfactory work. And, there  have been  various  offers and 
counter offers  made between the parties, which havent resulted in a resolution.
Given this background,  I should explain how we approach this type of complaint. Mr P bases 
his complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974. This allows a customer  to 
submit a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit  
provider. And applies  when customers use certain  types of credit  to buy goods and/ or 
services. 
In this case, Mr P used  a fixed-sum loan to pay for these items. I dont apply the law directly, 
so Im not deciding if Section 75 applies in this case.  Rather, Im required to decide  what,  if 
anything, BPF should do to resolve  this complaint. In doing  that, I must  decide what  I think is 
fair and reasonable, having  regard  to (amongst other things) any relevant law, which  
includes Section  75.
Ref: DRN90614413As its not in dispute that the work carried out wasnt satisfactory - and would amount to a 
breach of contract - the main issue is the manner  of redress. The usual  remedy  for breach of 
contract is to try to put the customer in the same  position as if the breach hadnt occurred. 
That might involve refunding the cost or requiring items to be replaced or repaired. 
In this case, due to the nature of the work  there are serious practical  difficulties in 
considering the issue  of rejecting and removing the items and cancelling  the agreement. 
The potential for further damage to Mr Ps property  would be considerable. Apart  from the 
inconvenience, thered be security  risks in removing windows and an external door - unless it 
could be guaranteed replacements would be fitted  immediately.
Theres also the issue of matching  those items  and accessories in need of repair  and
replacement with the windows that arent  damaged and require no further remedial  work.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ps concerns, there are faults with some aspects of the goods and 
workmanship - but not all of it. I understand he feels it would be more  satisfactory  to replace 
the lot entirely,  but Im required  to look at whats fair and reasonable.
As some of the windows have no issue, and some  only require cosmetic attention alongside 
those needing  more detailed repairs, Im not persuaded  they should  all be replaced. And I 
dont believe  a 75% discount  would  be fair or proportionate to the outstanding work  still 
required. But I do accept  Mr Ps reluctance to allow S back onto his property. And I can 
fully understand  why he doesnt trust it to carry out the repairs  needed given whats gone on 
here.
Im in agreement with the view of the investigator that the most proportionate means of 
resolving this complaint  is to require BPF to arrange  for the required works  to be undertaken. 
But, with the proviso  that S wont be directly involved in these repairs.
Im further persuaded this matter has taken  far too long to resolve and  S has had the 
opportunity to repair issues and has already failed to do so satisfactorily.  As such, Mr P 
should be compensated for the long delay and failed  attempts to rectify the situation.  
Im aware Mr P may not consider this his preferred outcome, but I believe it provides a fair 
and reasonable resolution for both parties.
Ive included in my provisional decision  the works required as detailed on the job sheet, 
which as far as Im aware has been  agreed by both parties. If there any further issues they 
will need  to be provided in any additional comments either party may wish to make.
I said I intend to order  Clydesdale Financial Services  Ltd trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance to:
1. Carry out works detailed below using S retail  goods, but fitted  by a third party to an 
acceptable standard and at no cost to Mr P;-
kitchen window - install complete new outer  frame clean trim seal
porch roof remove debris left on the roof protect with 18mm ply as we work on the
window above  the bathroom although the frame is in the correct  position relevant to 
the outer building  fabric  the internal linings are ever so slightly  off set remove 
window adjust  ribs if required  to align  centrally  with the inner linings clean trim and 
seal
Ref: DRN90614414downstairs bedroom remove both existing  cap pit cell covers install new to both
apertures clean and seal
back door  adjust the latch and locking mechanism to ensure door locks and is
secure.
install a new black tilt and turn bottom hinge  cover cap
back bedroom de-glaze fixed double glaze unit install a d trim to the fixed jamb 
seal in brown
all trims outside - all outside  trims need sealing to the frames  in white [tape  frame
and trim] all jamb trims need sealing at the bottom  edge in white  to the cell - see
photo with notes.
2. Pay Mr P £300, in addition  to the £50 already  paid, for the trouble and upset  this
matter has caused.
I invited both Mr P and BPF to make any further  submissions.
BPF accepted my provisional findings.
Mr P didnt. He still feels his trust has been breached with the poor workmanship from S 
and a lack of protection from Clydesdale. He wants  a full refund  for the windows, which he 
intends to replace when he is in a financial position to do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information afresh 
and considered all the additional submissions from both parties. Having done so, I havent 
seen anything to persuade me to change  my view from my provisional decision. Ill explain  
why.
I can understand Mr P is incredibly frustrated with this matter and has to take into account 
some very difficult family health issues, which are causing him great concern. I can see why 
he would  prefer a refund  of what hes spent  on his windows to look to having them replaced 
at a later date. But, unfortunately as I pointed  out in my provisional decision,  Im not 
persuaded this would be a fair or practical remedy.
I think its important to say at this point  that my role here isnt to fine or punish a business  
where errors  have  clearly  occurred, but rather to look at how the business has sought to 
address the issues  and whether that approach is fair and reasonable. As Ive already said,  
its not in dispute that the work carried out was not satisfactory - and would amount to a 
breach of contract.  Im required to look at a fair and reasonable approach  to remedy  the 
matter, and usually  my approach would be to try to put the customer in the same position as 
if the breach hadnt occurred. 
I appreciate Mr P wants a refund but to achieve  that he would need to return  the goods, 
which means to removal  of all the windows and doors and that gives rise to serious  practical 
difficulties in considering the issue of rejecting and removing the items and cancelling the 
agreement. The potential for further  damage  to Mr Ps property would be considerable. Apart 
from the inconvenience, thered be security risks in removing windows and an external door - 
unless it could be guaranteed replacements would be fitted immediately. Mr P has already  
said he wouldnt be able to do this until a later date.
Ref: DRN90614415Theres also the issue of matching  those items  and accessories in need of repair  and
replacement with the windows that arent  damaged and require no further remedial  work.  
As some of the windows have no issue, and some  only require cosmetic attention alongside 
those needing  more detailed repairs, Im not persuaded  they should  all be replaced. 
BPF didnt  agree to a full refund of the windows, but has agreed to carry out all the repairs  
and to use an alternative approved window fitter and provide a warranty for the work. It has 
also agreed to compensate Mr P for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.  
Based on what Ive seen  Im persuaded this is a fair and reasonable remedy. I appreciate 
this isnt Mr Ps preferred  outcome,  but Im afraid  I cant agree  to a rejection of all the goods, 
nor do I agree a 75% discount would be fair or proportionate to the outstanding work  still 
required.
my final decision
For the reasons  I uphold  this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited  to:
1. Carry out works detailed below using S retail  goods, but fitted  by a third party to an 
acceptable standard and at no cost to Mr P;-
kitchen window - install complete new outer  frame clean trim seal
porch roof - remove debris  left on the roof protect with 18mm ply as we work  on the
window above  the bathroom although the frame is in the correct  position relevant to 
the outer building  fabric  the internal linings are ever so slightly  off set remove 
window adjust  ribs if required  to align  centrally  with the inner linings clean trim and 
seal
downstairs bedroom - remove  both existing cap pit cell covers  install new to both
apertures clean and seal
back door  adjust the latch and locking mechanism to ensure door locks and is
secure.
install a new black tilt and turn bottom hinge  cover cap
back bedroom - de-glaze fixed double glaze  unit install  a d trim to the fixed jamb 
seal in brown
all trims outside - all outside  trims need sealing to the frames  in white [tape  frame
and trim] all jamb trims need sealing at the bottom  edge in white  to the cell - see
photo with notes.
2. Pay Mr P £300, in addition  to the £50 already  paid, for the trouble and upset  this
matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9061441