K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains a vehicle  he purchased using his Halifax credit card is of unsatisfactory
quality and not fit for purpose. Although he has received a full refund for the vehicle,  he asks 
Bank of Scotland pic, trading as Halifax (Halifax) to compensate him for consequential  
losses.
background 
On 21 January 2018, Mr R paid a deposit  of £250 using his Halifax credit card to purchase a 
used car from a dealership.
On 10 February 2018, he paid the balance due of £4,040, also on his Halifax credit  card at 
which time he collected the car.
On 18 February 2018, the car began  experiencing issues with the power steering.  It was 
soon after discovered  the issue was in relation  to a leak of the power steering fluid. The 
dealership explained this issue  was covered  by the warranty  Mr R had taken out. It offered  to 
carry out the repair. Mr R arranged for two estimates  to be carried out by two independent 
main dealerships. The cost of repairing  the power  steering issue  would be in excess of 
£2200. Mr R didnt  want to undertake the repair and asked to reject the car, but the 
dealership refused.
In May 2018, Mr R contacted Halifax to explain the situation and to raise  a chargeback 
claim. On 5 July 2018, Halifax temporarily refunded £4,040, the price paid for the car, and on 
10 August it temporarily  refunded the deposit of £250.00
Halifax sent a letter to Mr R stating the temporary  credits were now permanent,  and his card 
had a credit  balance of £4,278.14. But in October 2018, Halifax  reversed the decision as it 
was challenged  by the merchant and it realised it shouldnt have agreed  to a permanent  
credit until the chargeback dispute  was completed.
Mr R complained to Halifax about  its decision.  
In December 2018, Halifax issued its final response. It said it had correctly  reversed the 
temporary credit as the merchant had made a fair challenge. It said it couldnt  raise a 
Section 75 claim under  the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, as there was no evidence to confirm 
Mr R was the registered owner  of the vehicle.  But it said it acknowledged it had provided 
poor service and incorrect information  and so it offered £250 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R disagreed with this decision.  He asked for consequential losses  to be considered and 
so he and the Halifax entered into protracted  discussions.  In the end Halifax  agreed to 
refund the deposit and purchase price of the car, totalling £4,290.00. It said it could only 
consider any consequential losses if Mr R provided  evidence the dealership had 
misrepresented the vehicle  or there had been  a breach of contract. It said it would also 
require proof  of ownership of the vehicle.  
Dissatisfied, Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr R. 
Ref: DRN94628242In summary  she explained although  Halifax refunded the cost of the car to Mr R, this wasnt 
because it considered a breach of contract  or that the chargeback would have succeeded.   It 
refunded the purchase price because it made a series of errors and provided very poor 
customer services  issues. It had written to Mr R to confirm the temporary credit had been 
made permanent and so it honoured that decision,  even though it was in error.  Mr  R 
accepted the refund, but he saw that as a start to putting the matter right, he also wanted to 
claim for the consequential losses as a result of the faulty car. 
The investigator explained Halifax would have considered a Section 75 claim if Mr R would 
have been able to provide evidence that he was the registered owner/keeper  of the vehicle. 
But after looking  at all the evidence and Mr Rs testimony it was clear,  he wasnt  in 
possession of the V5 certificate at the time and was having difficulty getting it. As such,  
Halifax didnt pursue the Section 75 claim.
The investigator then considered whether a claim would  have  been  successful, had the 
Halifax pursued it. She agreed  it was clear Mr R had experienced issues within days  of 
collecting and thought it could be argued there  was potential for misrepresentation or a 
breach of contract.  But the dealership  provided  correspondence to show Mr R had an 18-
month warranty on the car, which he could have utilised at the time.  She found  the issue 
identified was in relation  to a leak with the power  steering,  this could have been
repaired and replaced. Mr R chose  not to do so. The dealership also confirmed it offered to 
repair the car under the warrant at no cost to Mr R, but he didnt agree to this option either. 
She said the issue with the power  steering was a concern, but given the age and mileage of 
the car, she thought certain components would need  to be repaired or replaced. She didnt  
believe the car itself was of unsatisfactory quality and it could have been repaired.  As such 
this would have  been a suitable remedy at the time.  Mr R would only have been without his 
car for a few days whilst it was repaired.  She didnt agree Mr R had taken  steps to mitigate  
the losses he was now claiming.
She concluded that as Mr R had received a full refund for the purchase cost of the car and 
still had the car in his possession. He remained in a position to repair  it, sell it or scrap it. 
This means  he could  still receive further payment for it. She didnt agree it was fair and 
reasonable to provide consequential losses  that could have been avoided and so she didnt 
uphold his complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree. He doesnt recall receiving the letter from the dealership, in any event he 
says he was abroad at the beginning of March and wouldnt have been able to respond to it 
within the seven  days the dealership gave as a response time to take accept its offer to 
repair the car. He challenges the validity of the warranty to repair  the specific issue  on the 
car and raises concerns about the MOT history. He feels very strongly  the car was supplied 
with faults present and as such he had the right to reject the car and as such  believes 
Halifax should compensate him for his consequential losses.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN94628243Ive looked at all the information from both parties  and the additional information from the 
dealership and finished my review of Mr Rs complaint. I am not upholding it. Please let me 
explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information  here from all parties. 
Im not going  to respond to every  single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I think its important to set out my role here. Mr R has brought his complaint against Halifax  
and so Im only considering how Halifax  has handled this matter. If, as in this case, it has 
already acknowledged it has made errors,  Ill look to see if it has been fair and reasonable in 
putting matters right for Mr R.
In considering a complaint about  a financial services provider, I need  to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  having been good industry practice at the 
time. In this case,  relevant  law includes Section 75 and the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
(CRA), amongst others.  Importantly, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party 
might have under Section 75. Rather, when  I think about what a fair way is to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint, I have to take account  of relevant  law, but that doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach 
the same  outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr R pursued  a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, our service is an informal 
alternative to the courts  as I have already mentioned, and it operates under different rules  
from a court.  
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr R has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier, he can also bring that claim against Halifax  provided certain  
conditions are met. Mr R suggests that there has been a breach of contract. He indicates 
there has been a breach of the implied term that his car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when sold. Here  he is relying on relevant provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(the CRA). The CRA says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied term 
that the quality  of the goods is satisfactory.  The CRA says the quality of goods  is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
considering any description of the goods,  the price and all the other  relevant circumstances.
Theres no dispute here that Halifax  could  have handled things much better. In the first 
instance Halifax approached Mr Rs complaint against the dealership  using a method known  
as chargeback. This is a transaction reversal made to dispute a card transaction and obtain 
a refund if theres  a problem with the goods. It works by the bank withdrawing funds which 
were previously paid to the supplier and putting them back in the consumers account.  A 
supplier can dispute  a chargeback with the bank if it can prove the chargeback  is invalid.
Ref: DRN94628244Theres no automatic right to a chargeback,  nor is a chargeback a guaranteed  method of 
getting a refund. The card scheme  operator  checks the nature of the problem against the 
possible chargeback  reasons  to see whether the claim  will be successful. If the bank feels  
the claim wont be successful, it doesnt have to raise a chargeback.  The main requirement  
for getting money  back through chargeback is evidence that theres been a breach of 
contract.
Halifax raised the chargeback and a temporary  credit put on Mr Rs account, he was told this 
would be permanent if he hadnt heard within 45 days, which he didnt. Halifax  also 
confirmed the amount  would be permanent.  But following  this, the merchant (dealership)  
provided contrary evidence and Halifax took the view Mr Rs claim didnt support a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation and so it reversed the credit on Mr Rs account.
Mr R was very unhappy with this decision. He explained to Halifax, he had purchased 
another car on the strength of its confirmed  decision to permanently refund the purchase 
cost of the car he said was faulty.
In summary,  after protracted  discussion,  Halifax refunded the full cost of the car to Mr R. It 
did so, not because it considered a breach of contract had occurred or that the chargeback  
would have succeeded but because  it accepted  it had informed Mr R in error that the credit 
was permanent, and that Mr R had taken financial decisions based upon  that information.  
In short,  it honoured its decision to make  the credit  permanent even though this was an error 
on its part. It also apologised for the delays and the poor customer service and paid Mr R a 
further £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter  had caused.
Mr R accepted the refund as a start to putting  the matter right,  but he also wanted to claim 
for the consequential  losses as a result of the faulty  car. These include a refund for the road 
tax, motor insurance and associated  travel costs due to having a faulty car, of around £6800  
in addition to the refund of £4,290 and £250 as a good will gesture for the trouble and upset 
this matter had caused.
In order to make a successful claim for consequential losses Mr R would need  to show there 
had been a breach of contract  and/or misrepresentation by the dealership  as I have 
previously mentioned. The relevant law for making such a claim is Section 75.
To summarise Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types  of credit to 
make purchases of goods and services. As I have already said under Section 75 the 
consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer 
providing the goods or services, if there  has been a misrepresentation  or breach of contract 
on the suppliers  part.
For Section 75 to apply,  the law effectively states  that there has to be a:
 Debtor - Creditor - Supplier  chain  to an agreement and
 A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the chain
When Mr R made his claim, Halifax required evidence that he was the registered 
keeper/owner of the car. Mr R was unable to provide this as he wasnt  in possession of the 
appropriate documentation and was having  difficulty in obtaining  it from the dealership. As 
such Halifax couldnt pursue a valid Section 75 claim.
Ref: DRN94628245Again, theres  no dispute that Mr R was the owner,  this was a technical issue,  and from what 
Ive seen had he provided the correct documents, there wouldnt have been an issue with 
the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. Halifax also agreed to look at consequential  losses  if Mr R 
could demonstrate there had been  a breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation. It didnt 
agree there had been, following the information provided by the merchant. Mr R disagrees 
and so I have  considered  all the available information in this respect. In order to find a 
breach had occurred,  I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
In this case, which involves a car, the other  relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage, and price. Mr Rs car was first registered in 2005, it had around 
119,500 miles on the clock and he paid around £4,290 for it. I dont think  any reasonable 
person would expect  the car to be in pristine condition like a new car. Rather they would 
expect the car to have some wear  and tear. Mr R thinks it seems  that because  the car had a 
problem immediately after he bought it that means there has been a breach of contract. But 
Im afraid I dont see it like that. Wear and tear problems can, and do, crop up with older 
second-hand cars at any time even straight after purchase. Indeed, one assumes this would  
be the very reason Mr R took out a warranty when he purchased the car. From the 
information provided by the dealership the warranty was initially  for 12 months and Mr R 
successfully negotiated it be extended  to 18 months.  Its clear Mr R raised the fault within 
ten days of taking possession of the car and although the CRA makes provision for faults 
arising within the first six months, it doesnt  give the consumer an automatic right to reject 
the car. It is generally  up to the business to put things right and the business is allowed one 
attempt to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. 
Im persuaded the evidence provided by the dealership shows not only was a valid warranty 
in place, but it also offered to carry out such a repair free of charge when it wrote to Mr R on 
2 March 2018. The letter was sent by recorded delivery and a further copy  by email.  In the 
letter, it said it became  aware of a potential problem with the car on 17 February following a 
telephone call with a representative. It agreed to inspect the car which it did on 23 February 
2018. It agreed there appeared to be a leak of fluid from the power steering unit. It didnt 
agree the fault was present at the point of sale as a MOT had been carried  out in January 
2018, the car passed with no advisories. It also carried out a pre-sale  delivery inspection  
where no faults, noises  or notable issues where  recorded. Mr R, along with another  person, 
took the car for a test drive and signed the pre-sale  delivery report. The letter  went  onto say:
. we do take customer service very seriously, and we pride ourselves on going
above and beyond our duty of care to our customers, it is therefore with this in mind we 
would like to offer to help you on this occasion.
We would  like to have  the vehicle returned to us, and we will replace the faulty component(s) 
and fix the issue  free of charge with no cost to yourself as a gesture of goodwill.
This offer will be valid for 7 days and should you choose to accept you can call the office  to 
book a suitable day/time to drop the vehicle of to us. We will aim to carry out the work within 
7 days and make the vehicle available for collection.
This is a onetime  offer as a gesture of goodwill due to the circumstances and short 
ownership period,  I would like to reiterate any new faults that may arise  in the future  will be 
your responsibility to correct yourself or using the warranty policy that is in place for you 
should you choose to.
Ref: DRN94628246Mr R disputes receiving  this letter, he also says he was abroad at this time and wouldnt 
have been in a position to take advantage of this offer within  such  a short timeframe anyway. 
But that doesnt explain why he didnt contact  the garage on his return  nor why he didnt take 
advantage of the warranty the dealership had paid for and extended for 18 months. The 
dealership has also provided proof the letter was sent by recorded  delivery  to Mr Rs given 
address and provided a copy of the email it sent to Mr Rs given email address  and so Im 
satisfied the letter was sent via two different mediums and I have no reason to doubt  its 
delivery.
But I cant see any evidence that Mr R responded to the dealerships offer at any time, nor 
did Mr R attempt to invoke the valid warranty but he has provided evidence  of sourcing two 
independent repair quotes, after this offer was made by the dealership.
Mr R says he did approach the dealership but it refused to repair the car or allow  him to 
leave the car there but I havent see anything that supports his claim, if anything this is in 
direct contradiction of the offer made  so Im not sure why the dealership  would make such  
an offer an then revoke it when a valid warranty was also in place, but this wasnt  taken up 
by Mr R either.
On balance, Im not persuaded  a breach of contract or misrepresentation did take place but, 
in any event, if it had, I find the most suitable  remedy would have been a repair. I havent 
seen anything that suggests  Mr R took any steps to mitigate the losses  he feels he has 
incurred. Had Mr R taken up the dealerships  offer or invoked his warranty, he may have 
been without the use of this car for a few days whilst  it was being  repaired, this would mean 
he wouldnt  have needed to spend the additional  monies he claims in travel costs  and so Im 
not persuaded Mr R has a valid claim for any consequential losses.
In terms of the actions  taken by Halifax. It has refunded the whole purchase cost of the car 
totalling £4,290 and paid a further £250 as a good will gesture by way of an apology. It did 
this in part because  Mr R said he had purchased  a new vehicle on the strength of the 
permanent refund.  Mr R has told this service that he didnt purchase a second vehicle as he 
didnt feel it would be financially prudent to do so. By honouring its error then and refunding  
the full purchase  price  of the car, this means Mr R has been put back  in the position he 
would have been in had he not purchased the car. At that point he still had ownership  of the 
car. This means he had an asset  and can dispose  of it as he wishes. He could  choose  to sell 
it, scrap  it or trade it. In any event he could receive further potential payments for it.
Im persuaded Halifax has acted  fairly  and reasonably  in putting matters right for Mr R, I 
dont agree it should pay Mr R anything further  for consequential losses  and as such  I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2021.
Ref: DRN94628247Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9462824