K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service hes received from Ageas Insurance  Limited and that 
theyve unfairly declined his claim made under his motor legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both Mr G and Ageas. So Ill only 
provide a brief summary here.
In September  2016 Mr G was unfortunately involved in a road traffic accident. This complaint 
arises out of the circumstances of Mr G making a claim under his motor legal expenses 
insurance (underwritten by Ageas).  Mr G wanted  to take legal action  against  a third party to 
recover his losses and for personal  injury. 
Initially a firm of solicitors  C were appointed to help Mr G with his claim.  Mr G wasnt happy 
with the service he received from C and asked Ageas if he could use his own solicitors. 
Ageas offered further choices  of different panel  solicitors, which  Mr G declined. Ultimately  
Ageas declined Mr Gs request to choose his own solicitor at that time. 
This resulted in a complaint about  this point and some issues around  how Ageas were  
communicating with him. A final decision was issued by an ombudsman colleague of mine  in 
November 2018.  The final decision  didnt  uphold the complaint and made no 
recommendations against Ageas.  The decision concluded that Ageas  had acted within the 
policy terms and fairly  and said Its up to Mr G if he wishes  to accept the appointment of the 
third panel  firm at this stage. If he doesnt  then Ageas arent  obliged  to offer him his own 
choice of solicitors until it becomes necessary  for proceedings  to be issued. 
Following that decision  Mr G authorised his file to be transferred  to another firm of panel  
solicitors H. H refused to accept Mr G as a client. Following this Ageas conducted a review 
of Mr Gs claim. They concluded Mr G hadnt  complied with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy and declined his claim in its entirety  on that basis. 
Mr G referred  the matter to our service. One of our investigators concluded that Ageas had 
acted fairly  and didnt  recommend that they needed to do more. As he disagrees Mr G has 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding it. I know  this is likely  
to be disappointing  for Mr G, so let me explain why.
Mr G has made some  detailed submissions to our service whilst  making  his complaint. And 
whilst I dont intend to respond in similar detail, I have read all of his submissions and taken 
them into account  when  making my decision. So if I dont mention  a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen  it or thought  about  it. Its just that I dont feel I 
Ref: DRN93514322need to reference it to explain  my decision.  I hope  Mr G doesnt take this as a discourtesy; it 
is just a reflection  of the informal nature of our service.  
Mr Gs policy  says Where you make  a claim,  you must comply with the Insured Persons 
responsibilities (General  Condition  2). If you fail to comply  then no cover will be provided 
under this policy.
Insured Persons Responsibilities
The insured  person must comply  with the following conditions for cover to be provided under  
this policy
The insured  person must:
co-operate with us and the legal  representative;
give the legal representative instructions that allow  them to do their work properly (for 
example, by promptly supplying information  to the Legal Representative when asked 
to do so).
Conditions such as these  are common in legal expenses insurance and I dont consider 
them to be inherently  unfair. I think its quite  reasonable for an insurer, as a condition of 
cover, to insist on the co-operation  of the insured person when  dealing  with a claim. Based 
on this Im satisfied Ageas  are entitled to decline Mr Gs claim if hes failed to keep to these 
conditions. Ive gone on to consider whether this has happened and whether the policy 
conditions have been fairly  applied.  
Ageas explained to Mr G that his relationship with three firms  of solicitors had either broken 
down or theyd refused to act for him. They also explained that theyd had to cease phone 
communications with him due to his conduct to protect their staff.  Further to this they 
highlighted that a medical expert had refused to provide a report  in relation to Mr G due to 
his attitude. 
I understand that being involved in an accident and resultant legal action can be a stressful 
time. Indeed, anyone  taking legal action is going to understandably be stressed  and 
concerned. Id expect  an insurer involved in such a claim to be aware that their customer  is 
likely to be under a great deal of pressure and to treat them sympathetically. So I dont think 
it would  necessarily be fair to use the policy condition Ageas are relying on to decline a claim 
in response to a single or minor incident. 
But in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, I think its clear there has been a long running 
pattern of conduct  and behaviour, which I dont think can fairly be described  as co-operating 
with Ageas and the legal representatives involved. 
Mr G sought out the personal contact details of staff from Ageas involved with his claim and 
calls were made to them at home. Ageas say some of this conduct was reported  to the 
police and prompted their decision to cease  phone contact with him. Further to this the staff 
involved in a medical examination of Mr G reported  that they had to ask him to leave the 
building due to his conduct.  And that the doctor refused to complete his report due to Mr Gs 
attitude. 
I also think its reasonable for Ageas  to rely on information theyve  received  from solicitors 
involved in Mr Gs claim and to consider his conduct in relation to them  in combination  with 
what they had experienced themselves. There are numerous instances  of behaviour within  
Cs file that demonstrate,  in my opinion, a lack of co-operation from Mr G.
Ref: DRN93514323I appreciate Mr G says that much  of what has been  recorded about him is lies. He also feels 
that Ageas have  slandered him to solicitors.  Ive not seen evidence  to support that Ageas 
have influenced  any solicitors decision as to whether  or not to represent Mr G. And I find the 
evidence Ive seen  recorded at the time, in the form of call notes and emails from the 
businesses involved,  more persuasive  than Mr Gs testimony.  Where  there are conflicting 
accounts, I have  to make my decision based on the balance  of probabilities as to what is 
most likely to have happened. I think its more likely than not that Mr Gs conduct has been 
as described. 
I appreciate Mr G feels Ageas should have further  investigated what  happened at his 
medical appointment and provided more  evidence of the involvement of the police in relation 
to his conduct. Ive seen  an email  from a representative of the medical expert which  outlines  
what they say happened.  I think it is reasonable for Ageas to rely on that evidence and I 
wouldnt expect them to investigate  that further.  I understand Mr G would like me to hold off 
on issuing my decision until he has sought further evidence in relation to the incident at the 
medical examination.  But part of my decision involves  when  I feel I have enough information 
to come to a fair and reasonable conclusion. Even if Mr G were  able to prove  that his 
account of what  happened that day was more accurate,  this wouldnt change the outcome of 
my decision.  I would still think it was fair for Ageas  to rely on the information they received 
and I would still consider their decision  in relation to the claim to be reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Ive also considered an email from Ageas which describes how the police attended their 
premises and took a report.  Again I find this persuasive evidence  and I dont think not being 
able to provide  a reference number or there  being no evidence of Mr G being contacted by 
the police  makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr G feels there have  been breaches of data protection legislation relating to what  solicitors  
have recorded  within their files. And that his subject access  requests (SAR) havent been 
handled correctly.   But Im only able to consider the actions of Ageas and their agents. The 
Legal Ombudsman may be able to assist in relation  to the conduct  of solicitors. And as our 
investigator explained, complaints about  compliance  with a SAR are better addressed  by the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
Stepping back and looking at this complaint as a whole, Im satisfied Mr Gs conduct cant  
fairly be described as being co-operative with both Ageas and others involved in handling his 
claim. And in the circumstances of this complaint, I think Ageas decision to decline his claim 
on that basis is both in line with the policy terms and fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9351432