K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and the way it dealt with a 
claim under a buildings  insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 5 December 2018 setting out the crux of the 
dispute that Mr G had brought to us. In summary, it concerned the repair  to a wall at Mr Gs 
property. RSAs contractor hadnt  used a brick  that matched the rest of the wall and Mr G 
was unhappy  with the repair.
RSA offered to have  the repaired part deconstructed to then rebuild it with a brick of Mr Gs 
choice. There were  concerns about the integrity  of another  partial rebuild and in the end 
RSA offered (and paid)  compensation for the loss of match in the brickwork. The amount 
paid was £3,689.22 which reflected half the cost of rebuilding the entire wall plus the amount  
it cost RSA to carry out the initial partial repair.  
I said that having looked at all the evidence Mr Gs existing wall wasnt  uniform in colour  and 
there was evidence of graffiti.  RSA had suggested  there was evidence  of cleaning  and this 
had contributed to some  of the difference  in colour. I noted a darker  horizontal colour band at 
the top of the wall and found it likely that there would always be a colour  mis-match  with new 
bricks as the original  brick  had been  discontinued.  However, I accepted that it didnt need to 
be as obvious  as it was with the bricks the contractor had used.
I was minded to find that RSA had made a payment that was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I explained that RSA had repaired the wall to a satisfactory structural 
standard and Mr G would,  in all likelihood, have  a mis-match and the entirety of the original 
wall wasnt a uniform colour  before RSAs  repair.  I noted the original wall was significantly 
larger than the relatively  small part that needed repaired. And I didnt think  it would be fair to 
require RSA to carry the risk in deconstructing the partial rebuild, which could  mean the 
entirety of the wall had to be rebuilt  if it compromised the integrity of the structure.
I provisionally found that RSAs payment was for half the cost of rebuilding the entire  wall 
plus the cost of the partial repair (which had already  been done). And I was satisfied that this 
amount, being  around six times  the original repair cost, was fair compensation for the loss of 
match. 
replies to my provisional  decision
I havent seen  any reply from RSA but Mr G has responded, which I summarise as follows:
Hes never said he wanted the full wall rebuilt and would be happy  with the partial 
repair being done again but with a better matching  brick. 
Hes not motivated by the money and it would make better sense  for RSA to do the 
repair again as it would cost much less than the money it has sent him. 
Due to his job its not possible for him to be trying to get RSAs  mistake rectified. 
Any fading in the wall has been due to the elements. 
He hopes  hes not being punished for the wall having graffiti. 
He thinks the current  repair  would hinder any attempt to sell his house. 
All he wants is a safe wall that matches the rest of his home  as closely as it can.
Ref: DRN95089562my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres no new evidence that persuades  me to reach a different outcome to that in my 
provisional decision.
Its not disputed  that the repaired wall is structurally sound, or that the repaired area is a 
small part of the entirety of the wall. There is no apparent matching brick to use in a repair 
and so the wall would  always have a mis-match in its colour uniformity. And while I accept 
that it might not be as obvious as it currently stands,  on the information I have, there are in 
effect two main structural repair possibilities;
Deconstruct the repair and rebuild 
oThis carries a risk of compromising the structural integrity of the entire wall 
and so needing a complete rebuild
Rebuild the entire wall
oThis would put Mr G in a much better position  than the current wall. 
The cost of the insured damage  is around  a sixth of the entire rebuild cost and so it would  in 
my view, in the circumstances of Mr Gs case, be unreasonably disproportionate to require 
RSA to rebuild the entire wall.
The deconstruction method carries  an apparent risk of compromising the integrity  of the wall, 
which in turn could  mean the entire wall has to be rebuilt. I remain  satisfied that this would 
be an unreasonable risk for RSA to carry  in this case  given  the disproportionate cost 
between the required  insured work and what could happen.
Underlying all this is the fact that the wall in its pre-incident state had colour variation and 
uniformity couldnt be achieved even with the best alternative brick apparently  available  
(remembering that the original brick  has been discontinued). 
I have taken into account Mr Gs belief that the current repair might impair the sale of his 
house but thats not substantiated  in any way and so Im not persuaded that this merits a 
different outcome to my provisional decision. My decision  is not intended to penalise Mr G in 
any way albeit I can accept it might feel that way as hes not getting the final decision he 
wants. 
Wed usually say that 50% is a reasonable amount for loss of match and RSA has paid more 
than this. In all the circumstances of Mr Gs case I remain  satisfied that the partial  repair 
leaves the wall structurally  sound  and RSAs compensation payment achieves an outcome 
thats fair and reasonable reflecting the loss of match and inconvenience this might  bring. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9508956