K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr E bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  It protected  his 
monthly credit card repayments if he couldnt  work as a result  of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr E mainly  says that he doesn't recall any mention of PPI and he wouldnt have agreed to 
have it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint.
On the application form Mr E completed to get his credit card theres a pre-printed cross  in 
the box to have PPI added  to the account.  I think this probably  reflects what  Mr E told the 
advisor he wanted and hes signed the completed application. So, on balance, I think that 
Halifax made Mr E aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Halifax has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr E. So, it had to check the cover it advised 
Mr E to have was suitable for him. 
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document  from the exact date when  
Mr E took out his credit card. But I think its likely that in all main respects the policy  Mr E 
signed up to wouldve had similar terms to other  policies we know about that were in use 
around the time. 
Mr E told us he was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay, followed by 6 months half sick pay. 
But its likely that the policy  would have paid more than his minimum credit card repayments 
in addition to this sick pay, for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work, giving Mr E a useful  
benefit at a difficult time. I dont know if hed always have had savings he could rely on. So 
I think the PPI couldve  been useful if Mr E had needed to make a claim.  And I think Halifaxs  
recommendation was suitable in his particular circumstances.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The policy didnt  cover some things.  But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr E. So, I dont think having more information about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Es decision to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN95506782I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr E when he bought  the policy. But from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for him when he took 
the policy out. Mr E paid for the PPI each month so he couldve cancelled  the policy  at any 
time without  losing out financially if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr E still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9550678