K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that he was mis-sold mobile phone  insurance when he took out a 
mobile phone contract  in a store.
background
Mr G took out a mobile phone contract  in a store. Hes told us that he was led to believe his 
bills would increase unless he took insurance,  and that the excess  he would have to pay for 
any claim would be no more than £20.
Mr G went on to make a claim  under the policy and was asked to pay an excess  of £120,  so 
he cancelled  the policy and made  a complaint  about  the excess he was asked to pay. 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  didnt  uphold the complaint.  So Mr G brought his complaint  
to this service to be investigated.
Our Investigator  looked  into Mr Gs complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. As Mr G 
disagreed this complaint has now been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has told us that he was told he would have to pay a much lower excess  than what he 
was asked to pay when he made  a claim under his policy. Its not possible for me to know  
exactly what was said when Mr G took out his policy so I have considered the available 
paperwork.
The contract Mr G signed  when he took out his mobile phone  contract  and insurance clearly  
explained that the excess Mr G would have  to pay for any claim was £120. It stated:
I agree to the purchase of Damage Cover £10.08. My monthly premium will be £9.00 
excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT), making my total monthly insurance payment £10.08 
including IPT but excluding any discounts.  I will need to pay Excess Band E - £120 for each 
successful claim
Mr G signed this document  in agreement with the statement above.
Although Mr G has told us he didnt receive  anything in the post after he took out the 
insurance I can see that a welcome pack was sent to him at his address.
Mr G has also told us that he was forced  to buy the insurance. But for me to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint based  on this I would have to see persuasive evidence  that this happened, which I 
havent seen.  
In addition, Mr G tells us he wasnt asked to sign anything to accept that the advisor wasnt 
trained in the product.  But I wouldnt expect  Mr G to be asked to sign anything in agreement 
with this. As I said above, Mr G has signed in agreement with taking the product, based on 
the information that had been presented to him.
Ref: DRN99204032With the above in mind  I think Mr G would  have been reasonably  aware that the excess  
applied to any claim would be £120. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9920403