K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank  (Tesco)  charged 
her a transaction fee and additional interest  when  she used her credit card for a purchase.  
She says the fee should only have  applied to cash withdrawals and she hadnt been charged  
the fee for previous similar purchases. She wants the charges refunded.
background
In July 2018 Ms B used her credit card to book a holiday  villa abroad using an international 
money transfer service.  As a result  Ms B incurred a transaction fee of £30.93 and interest of 
£13.40.    
Ms B complained to Tesco. She said she didnt know  why shed incurred transaction  fees 
and interest for booking  the villa. She said she understood those type of handling  fees only 
usually applied to cash withdrawals using the card,  and shed paid for a villa twice before 
and wasnt charged  the fees. She wanted the £43 in charges to be waived.
Tesco explained to Ms B that it had issued  a notice of variation in April 2018  which  explained 
that a cash handling fee would be applied to wire/international money transfers.  It said it 
gave 30 days notice  as requested and as the transaction  occurred after this time it was right 
to apply both the handling  fee and the interest  charge. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that Tesco had issued a notice of variation  to the card conditions  in April 2018 which 
explained that an international money  transfer  would now attract  a handling fee. Therefore 
he said Tesco hadnt acted incorrectly  and he wouldnt ask it to refund  the charges.
Ms B didnt agree as she wanted Tesco to waive the charges. So as no resolution could be 
found the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B wants Tesco to refund the fee it charged her when she booked a villa abroad using her 
credit card. And I have some sympathy  for her position as she says shes  made the same  
type of transaction twice before without charge. But I dont think Tesco  has made any errors 
here  which  I know will disappoint  Ms B  so Ill explain  why.
Ive seen a copy  of the general terms and conditions that applied  to this credit card. These  
terms and conditions  which  would have been  made available  at the time the card was 
taken out said:
Section 10.4 We will give you at least 30 days advance notice of all changes  under this 
condition; unless the change is to your advantage.we  will tell you about  changes in writing  
which we will send to you with your monthly statement, or separately by post.  If you receive 
paperless statements  we may do this by email.  We will tell you when the changes will come 
into effect.  So Tesco was able  according to its terms  and conditions   make  changes to 
the card conditions with sufficient advance warning. 
Ref: DRN96637992And I think it did that because Ive also seen evidence to show that a notice of variation was 
enclosed with Ms Bs credit card statement of 5 April 2018  which  gave notice of the changes 
being made with effect from 31 May 2018. So I think Tesco did exactly  what  it said it would 
do according to the terms and conditions. It gave Ms B more than 30 days notice and this 
information was enclosed with the monthly statement. So I dont think Tesco  made a mistake  
here. 
And Ms B hasnt suggested  that she wasnt given the required notice  rather, she said she 
thought the charges only applied to cash  withdrawals and she had always been aware of 
that. She said she didnt  regard this transaction as a cash  withdrawal. And Ms B is right 
about that being one of the transactions that incur the charge.  But Tesco made  a change to 
those terms and conditions to widen the scope of what kind of transactions would attract the 
handling fee. 
Ms Bs April statement says - on the front page,  Notice  of Variation. Please read the 
enclosed leaflet which gives  you notice of changes being made to your Terms and 
Conditions with effect from 31 May 2018.  And the leaflet  explained  that Tesco was changing 
some of the types  of transactions it classed as cash and was changing some its fees.  It 
explained that the current 3% handling fee would be increasing to 3.99% and explained  the 
changes to the classification of cash withdrawals and transactions  with the following:
We are changing the types of transactions  that we classify as cash. We have updated  your
agreement to make the distinction between cash withdrawals and cash transactions  clearer.
Under section 1.2 fees and charges  a new bullet point had been  added  which  said,
A handling fee of 3.99% (no minimum charge)  of the amount for cash  transactions. Cash 
transactions are gambling transactions, wire or international money  transfers, repaying 
borrowing (e.g. loans and mortgages), purchasing non-sterling currency outside of Tesco,  
payments to prepaid  or virtual cards, investments,  share trading and spread  betting
Ms B has explained that this change hadnt applied to the similar  transactions  she made 
twice previously, when  she hadnt incurred any charges. But I think  its clear what changes 
Tesco were going  to make and Im satisfied that the company Ms B used to pay for the villa 
is a business which transfers money  internationally, so I think the changes  did apply to 
Ms Bs transaction here.
In order to uphold  Ms Bs complaint  I would need to be sure that Tesco  had acted incorrectly  
or at least  unfairly in what it did. But I think it conveyed  some changes to its terms and 
conditions in the way that it said it would according  to its general terms and conditions. 
My decision  is that Tesco  has acted appropriately  and it clarified and explained the changes  
it intended to make, in a fair and reasonable way. So Im not going to tell Tesco to take any 
further action  in respect of this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Ref: DRN96637993Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9663799