K820x#14Complaint
Miss C has complained that Santander  UK Plc is holding her liable  for a loan, which  she 
says she didnt take out.
Background
Miss C says shes  been the victim of identity theft and impersonation. 
Santander received  an online application for a loan in Miss Cs name. It sent the loan 
agreement to Miss Cs home  address for signature. The form was returned to Santander  on 
25 October 2017, duly completed and signed  in Miss Cs name.
Santander paid the loan advance of £5,500 into Miss Cs current  account on the same day. 
The advance took her account  from an overdraft,  into a credit balance.
On 25 October 2017, a new payment  instruction to a third party  was set up on Miss Cs 
online account. 
On 26 October 2017, three online payments, totalling £3,950, were made to the third party. 
On the same  day, there  were cash withdrawals totalling £2,160  from Miss Cs current  
account.
Nothing further happened until 24 November 2017  when Miss Cs account received  a credit 
of £2,690. Santander received an alert that this was fraudulent and tried unsuccessfully  to 
speak to her about  the money.  It sent her a letter on 7 December 2017, telling her it had 
placed a block  on her account.
In the meantime, Miss C called Santander  on 6 December 2017  and told it she hadnt  
applied for the loan.  She said shed been  away due to a family bereavement and only saw 
the correspondence about the loan when she returned home.  
She also found out that someone had applied in her name for several mobile  phone  
contracts and other credit agreements. These  were later cancelled for being fraudulent. She 
asked Santander  to cancel the loan agreement.
Santander asked  her about  the credit into her account. She said she didnt know where  it 
came from or who transferred it to her account.
Santander decided  that she had applied for the loan, after carrying  out an investigation. It 
later closed her account. 
As Miss C didnt agree with Santanders decision,  she asked this service  to investigate. She 
believes her former boyfriend applied  for the loan, the phone contracts and other  finance  
agreements. She said he also bought a Rolex watch on credit, which was delivered to her 
home address but she didnt see it.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. In summary, he 
thought it was more likely than not that Miss C had applied for the loan because:
the loan application contained information  which only Miss C would know, such as 
her employers  details  and her bank  details
Ref: DRN94160032the loan agreement was posted  to Miss Cs home address
the loan agreement was returned,  signed by Miss C
the loan advance was paid into her current account
Santander sent a one-time password (OTP) to her mobile phone when the new 
payment instruction was created 
the password  was used to set up the payment instruction
her card and PIN were used to make  the cash withdrawals against the loan advance
she was in the area where the cash withdrawals were made
Miss C hadnt reported  her card or phone as lost or missing
she had received a fraudulent credit into her account, which  she couldnt explain.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators assessment. She has asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I agree with 
the investigators conclusion and for broadly the same reasons.
Based on the evidence,  there are only two likely  scenarios in this case.  They are either that 
Miss C applied for the loan or her former  boyfriend did. I think its clear there has been 
unusual activity on Miss Cs account,  which she might have known about or even been a 
party to. However, my primary task is to decide  if she applied for the loan, not whether she 
knew about it or was complicit in the subsequent spending of it.
To reach my decision, Ive considered:
the application for the loan 
the loan agreement 
the account the loan monies  were  paid into.
Ive seen the information in the application. It includes her full name, postal  address,  her 
email address, the number of years  shed lived at the address and her bank  account  details. 
The information matched the information held on file for her. The application also included  
her employers details,  length of employment and job title. Santander contacted  the 
employer for verification  and found  out she was no longer working  for the employer. 
Only Miss C, or someone close to her, would know this level of information. I think that using 
Miss Cs email address  and naming her past employer was a risky step for someone else to 
take, as there was every opportunity of being  caught. So I think  its more likely  she made the 
application.
Santander sent the loan agreement to Miss Cs home address.  If she didnt make the 
application, then whoever  did it knew they could get access to her post to get the agreement.
The agreement was returned to Santander  with a signature. Ive seen a copy  of the signed 
agreement. Ive also seen Miss Cs signature  on her passport, her letter  to this service and 
on the account application form.
The surname on the loan agreement is written differently  to the surname on the passport. 
But the first name initial looks similar  on both documents.  Both signatures differ from the 
signatures on the account application  form and the letter Miss C sent us. 
Ref: DRN94160033However, I think the signature on the loan agreement is a little closer  to the signature on the 
letter we received, even though it is different. Clearly, Miss Cs signature has changed and 
we are not handwriting experts. But I cant rule out the possibility she signed the agreement. 
The bank account details given in the application  were Miss Cs. And I can see from the 
bank statement the loan advance was paid into her account. Again, whoever  made  this 
application knew they could easily take the money  from her account, which they did using 
her online bank account, debit card and PIN. 
On the face of it, she was the only person who could do this.
Miss C says shes  been the victim of identity fraud by a former boyfriend. She said shed 
written down her bank details, including her online details, and kept them  in her room. She 
said there was an occasion  when hed spent a long period  in her bedroom. So he wouldve 
found them. Its possible. But Im afraid I dont think this is what happened,  mainly because  
theres too little evidence  to support this explanation. 
Miss C couldnt provide  any details for the boyfriend, such as his name or address. She said 
shed met him on a dating website. She said Action Fraud told her its likely hed been using 
a false name. However, she made no effort to contact the dating agency for any information 
about him. So I have  no evidence this person even exists.
And theres  no explanation for how he had access to her post or when he was in her room. 
She hasnt  said he was living with her. Also, as she cant  remember whether she was at 
home when  the loan was taken out, then I dont know why the boyfriend would be at her 
home while she wasnt.
Miss C hasnt identified  any other  person who would have access to her banking details. So 
considering the evidence,  I think  its more  likely  than not that Miss C applied for the loan 
rather than the boyfriend  or anyone else.
I also consider that she knew  about  the loan.  This isnt proof  she took out the loan but it is 
supporting evidence. 
Some of the loan monies were paid to a third party, who seems to have no previous 
connection to Miss C. I agree this looks odd. However, the payment instruction was set up 
on Miss Cs online account  in the third partys name using the OTP that Santander sent to 
her mobile number. 
Miss C said she didnt  recall receiving the text message but the report confirms it was 
received. Miss C hasnt  mentioned losing her phone.  And she hasnt said that she allowed 
anyone else to use it. Santander said the phone  number had been on its records since 2013. 
In January 2018, it became her preferred method  of contact. I note shes  still using the same  
mobile number. Miss Cs mother suggested  that the boyfriend might  be using the same 
number but this is pure speculation. The weight of evidence is that the OTP was sent to Miss 
Cs mobile phone.  I can only conclude that she set up the payment instruction.
There were four cash withdrawals against the loan advance  all on the same day. Two were 
ATM withdrawals and two were made in branch. These transactions were not made  in Miss 
Cs home town but in another town.  Miss C confirmed she was in the area at the time, 
Ref: DRN94160034staying in a hotel with the boyfriend. He then left and she went to stay with friends,  still in the 
same area.  
The transactions were  made with her debit card and PIN. Miss C hadnt reported her card as 
missing or lost. She said she didnt realise it was missing because she didnt need to use it. 
According to Santanders notes, Miss C said she didnt have her bank card for some time, 
as her mother had paid off her overdraft in October  2017, although I am not sure why the 
overdraft is relevant to the card.
Miss C said she last used her card to withdraw £270 at the end of October 2017. This was 
one of the four cash withdrawals. She disputes making the other three cash  withdrawals. 
However, the fact she used her card to withdraw £270 tells me she had her card and was 
using it the same day as the disputed transactions. Her bank statement  also shows two ATM 
cash withdrawals on 24 November, which she hasnt  disputed. Contrary  to what  she told 
Santander, she still had her card and was using it.
Again, she suggests  the boyfriend couldve used  her card but Miss C couldnt explain how 
he knew her PIN or managed to take and replace her card without her noticing.
There was also a fraudulent credit  into her account. This may well be a separate incident, 
unrelated to the loan. And theres no information to link this credit with the loan. 
Santander asked  Miss C to explain where  the money came from, which it was entitled  to do. 
She said she didnt  know  the where  the money came from or who transferred it to her. 
However, Santanders notes show that the money came from an account, which was linked 
to Miss Cs current  account. Shed received money before from this account  on more than 
one occasion.  I think its more than a coincidence that there should  be a large  payment into 
her account  within  four weeks of the loan advance.
Ive thought about the mobile  phone contracts and other finance  agreements,  which were 
cancelled. I appreciate these agreements were  found to be fraudulent  but I dont know the 
reasons why. As I said,  the activities on her bank account appear  unusual. But I dont  think  it 
was unreasonable for Santander to refuse  to cancel the loan because:
only Miss C could  provide the information  in the loan application 
the agreement  was posted to her at her home  address and returned signed
the loan advance went into her account
there is no evidence  a former boyfriend  applied for the loan
there is no evidence  someone else had access to the information provided in the 
loan application.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Miss C but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9416003