K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy that his loan application  was declined by Tesco  Personal Finance PLC. 
background
In August  2018  Mr P applied for a loan from Tesco. This application was declined  due to 
adverse information  showing  on his credit  file. Mr P contacted  Tesco to say hed noticed 
more credit card debt on his credit  file than was actually his. And that hed had debt 
collection agencies chasing  him. He suspected this was due to his fathers circumstances.
Mr P says he was advised by Tesco  on several  different occasions that a particular credit 
reference agency was the source  of the adverse information theyd received. Mr P therefore 
brought a complaint against this company. Our service didnt uphold that complaint. Mr P 
has now brought a complaint against Tesco.  
An investigator has already looked  at this case. It has since come to light that Tesco actually 
got the adverse information which they relied upon from a different  credit  reference agency. 
Overall the investigator  felt that Tesco hadnt been  as helpful or as clear as they couldve 
been. So he proposed £125 compensation to Mr P for the inconvenience  this matter had 
caused him to suffer. Tesco feel very strongly  that they never  misled  Mr P, and in fact, went  
out of their way to assist him. 
As this complaint  has still not been resolved, the case  has now been referred  to me for 
consideration. Tesco has since advised our service that two different credit reference 
agencies provided  the adverse information  to them. One provided  information on the day of 
the loan application. The other provided information when they were trying to help Mr P after 
the loan application had been declined. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
A lot of evidence has been filed with our service.  And I appreciate that both Mr P and Tesco 
feel incredibly strongly  about  this matter. 
As I understand Mr P applied for a loan with Tesco around June 2014. Tesco say they used 
two credit reference agencies and that Mr P was a straight accept for the borrowing. 
Subsequent to this, Tesco received regular data from one of the particular credit  reference 
agencies and two CCJs were returned  for him. Mr P contacted Tesco in 2015 for a top up 
loan. He was declined due to these  CCJs. It seems these CCJs were  still showing when Mr 
P applied  for the loan in August 2018. 
Tesco is entitled to have its own lending criteria to decide whether or not to lend based on a 
customers particular circumstances. Tesco say they didnt mislead Mr P and that he was 
advised to contact all credit reference  agencies after his loan application was declined. 
It should be stressed that Tesco  wasnt  obligated to help Mr P. But it seems they did try. Just 
like the investigator,  having carefully  considered all the evidence, I too find the testimony of 
Mr P to be very persuasive. He has provided a detailed timeline and record  from several 
Ref: DRN96189322calls where he says he was told by Tesco that one particular  credit reference agency had 
provided the adverse information.  
I think it likely Tesco did initially  steer Mr P towards  one particular credit reference  agency. 
This led to a lot of distress and inconvenience  for Mr P when trying to understand why his 
loan application  had been declined. Mr P ultimately focused all of his efforts  on pursuing the 
wrong credit reference agency. I struggle to see why Mr P would have  done  this if hed 
clearly been advised by Tesco, at the very beginning, that he should  contact all credit 
reference agencies.  Tesco  should  have been  clearer about who provided the adverse 
information at the point  of the loan application. 
In light of this I agree  with the investigator that it seems fair to award  Mr P compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  this whole matter has caused  him. I think the sum of £125 is 
reasonable. Im not minded to increase this amount. Whilst Tesco couldve been clearer in 
the information they gave  Mr P, ultimately they arent the cause of why Mr Ps loan 
application failed.  And I do recognise that Tesco did try to assist Mr P during this challenging 
time.
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  pay Mr P £125 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9618932