K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the premiums charged  to him for his home insurance by 
U K Insurance Limited.
background
Mr P had a policy through his building society which was underwritten  by UKI from 2012. 
Prior to that it was underwritten by an insurer which subsequently became part of UKIs 
corporate group. In 2015 Mr P rang up UKI and obtained a discount. He contacted  UKI again 
in 2016 but it wasnt  prepared to offer any further  discount. He advised that he had found  
another policy through another insurer that was much cheaper, and with contents cover.  He 
asked UKI for an explanation but it couldnt offer him one save to say that his property was 
Grade 2 listed. He cancelled the UKI policy. UKI said its premiums  were calculated  correctly 
according to its underwriting criteria.
On referral to this service,  our adjudicator thought  that UKI had acted fairly and reasonably 
in setting the premium.  No other  policy was available through UKI from the building  society.  
Mr P was unhappy with this and feels that he had trusted the building society   he pointed  
out that he'd had the policy  for a good  deal longer than since 2012.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that the fact that Mr P has been  able to find much cheaper  cover from 
another insurer doesnt mean that UKI has overcharged him. Insurers often charge very 
different prices for what seems to be very similar cover. Its up to the insurer  how much  risk it 
wants to attach to the cover it provides  and the cost it needs to charge to cover  that. We 
dont generally  tell insurers what they can charge in what  is a competitive market.  But we are 
concerned to see that they charge each customer fairly within  their own pricing criteria and 
that this is applied consistently. So any customer in a similar position is charged a price 
within a reasonable range for the same  risk criteria. 
Weve seen UKIs guidelines and I think it fair to point out that the nature of Mr Ps property  
meant it didnt fit into the pattern of standardised rebuild costs. I think that Mr P has been 
charged fairly within those  guidelines.  Weve also seen details of the premiums  charged prior 
to 2012; these are available  from 2003,  although  renewal letters are only available  from 
2005 onwards.  I think it right to say that there  were  no big increases in the premium. The 
maximum increase was in 2009 of 12%. But this was balanced by a 21% decrease in 2010.  
Its not possible to say what, if any alternative policies were available before 2012. But it 
does appear that when  the policy came under UKIs umbrella,  it continued to be charged at 
the same  rate. So I think it reasonable to assume  that the pricing criteria used was most 
likely very similar to the previous insurer. I should also point out that insurance premiums  in 
recent years are far more competitive than they were in the earlier years of Mr Ps policy.  So 
that may be why hes been able to get a much cheaper policy from another  company  now.
Ref: DRN99096642Whilst Mr Ps complaint isnt one where I think that anything  went  wrong with his pricing, 
when a customer doesnt engage over a number of years with their insurer  at renewal, often 
described as consumer inertia, there  is the possibility  that they can end up being treated 
unfairly. Such customers can be potentially vulnerable to paying  much more for their 
insurance than other customers  who are less trusting of, and loyal to, the relevant brand  
here the building society.
But this isnt a case of Mr P being  charged a lot for one policy  when the insurer/building 
society could offer other cheaper policies or indeed this policy  much  cheaper. And I dont 
think the renewal letters  were misleading  or implied that the price charged was better  or 
more competitive than other insurers. For instance even the 2005  renewal letter  said You 
should review your insurance requirements  on a regular basis 
So, generally, Im satisfied that Mr P has been charged for his home  insurance within UKIs 
pricing criteria and that hes not been treated unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint  and I wont be requiring 
U K Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909664