K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs M say The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-operative) mis-sold them the 
policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive first looked at whether The Co-operative were  clear  that the policy was optional.
Mr and Mrs M say that they never needed  or wanted  the PPI. They  say they were  bullied 
and forced  into the PPI agreement and told no PPI, no mortgage. So Ive thought about 
what Mr and Mrs M have  said alongside  the other information I have about  the sale.
I see that Mr and Mrs M originally applied for the policy in 2002.  They  completed a separate 
application form at the same  time that they applied for their mortgage. The policy  started in 
August 2002 and was free for the first six months.
But Mr and Mrs M didnt sign a direct  debit mandate to pay for the policy.  In December 2002, 
shortly before the free period came  to an end, The Co-operative wrote to Mr and Mrs M to 
explain that if they wanted cover  to continue theyd need to sign and return a direct debit 
mandate. Mr and Mrs M didnt return the direct debit mandate  at this time  but around this 
time Mrs M did contact The Co-operative to amend the cover so that it only covered her and 
not Mr M.
Then, in April 2003, The Co-operative sent Mr and Mrs M another letter.  This said that if Mrs 
M didnt return the direct debit mandate, it would assume she no longer required the PPI and 
the policy would be cancelled. At this point, Mrs M returned the direct debit mandate.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs M have said - but I think its more likely that they 
wanted the PPI. They  didnt agree to pay for the policy until nine months  after their mortgage 
started  and the final letter sent by The Co-operative made it clear that the policy would be 
cancelled if they didnt do anything. I dont think its likely Mr and Mrs M would have  changed 
who was covered by the policy or returned the direct  debit mandate if they hadnt wanted  the 
policy. 
So based  on what Ive seen, I think The Co-operative  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out. 
The Co-operative didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them.
Ref: DRN95363822Its possible the information The Co-operative gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. 
But they chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have  been  useful to them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs M received some sick pay from their employers. But I think it was 
up to Mr and Mrs M to decide if they wanted  to buy the policy.  In any case, Mrs M says her 
income fell after six months of sickness, while this policy paid benefits for up to a year. The 
policy protected a mortgage and their home would be at risk if they couldnt make the 
payments. 
So Im not persuaded that better information about the PPI would have put them  off taking  
out the cover.
For these reasons, The Co-operative doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs M.
But The Co-operative has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
The Co-operative got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should  have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  
The Co-operative didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, The Co-operative has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said. Mr M says he retired  in 2004. But as 
he was removed from the policy in 2002  before  he ever paid any premiums for the policy,  
this doesnt affect  my conclusions.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9536382