K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square)  mis-sold her 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) alongside  a credit card.
background
In 2003 Ms G applied  for a credit  card and at the same time she also took out PPI. Canada  
Square says Ms G took out both over the internet. Ms G says something different happened  
and Ill address this below.
The policy was designed to protect  Ms Gs card payments in the event  she couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost 74 pence for every £100 Ms G 
owed on the card. And it would pay a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding card 
balance for up to 12 months.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  about  the sale of the policy. But the adjudicator  
thought the offer of compensation from Canada Square for the high commission  it received 
was fair in the circumstances.
Ms G disagrees. In doing so she says the initial application was done  over the phone where 
she says she remembers saying that she didnt want PPI because she had no requirement 
for it. She says the policy was therefore mis-sold.
The case  comes to me to decide the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Ms Gs case.
Firstly I can see there  is some disagreement  about  how Ms Gs credit card and PPI was 
taken out. During  the course of her complaint, Ms G has said things happened  during a 
meeting and then shes  said it took place over the phone.
Canada Square  says Ms G applied for her credit  card online and it was during this 
application that she took out PPI. And its provided the data capture screen from Ms Gs 
application, which it says shows this.
Having considered things carefully, I think this was a sale carried  out online   theres no 
evidence to support  the view that either a meeting (Canada Square didnt operate this way) 
or a phone call took place. So I dont  think there  was any Canada  Square staff 
representative involvement in this sale.
Ive decided Ms G hasnt lost out as a result  of taking out PPI to the extent that she should 
get back everything she paid for PPI because:
I think Canada Square made  it clear  that Ms G didnt  have to take out PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this given how 
long ago the sale took place.
Ref: DRN98514692Canada Square  has sent us an example screenshot of the internet  page about PPI Ms G 
would most  likely have  seen when she applied for her credit  card.  These are screenshots 
weve seen before for sales around  this time and Ive not seen anything to persuade  me 
that Ms G saw something different during  her application. The screenshot shows Ms G 
would have been presented with two options  for PPI  Yes to take out the cover  and 
No to decline it  which she had to choose  from by clicking on the appropriate  radio 
button on the screen to proceed with her credit card application. 
Canada Square  has also provided Ms Gs internet  application record,  which suggests 
she answered 'Yes to wanting PPI in her application.
So overall I think the evidence shows Ms G was given  the option  to take out PPI and that 
she chose to take it out by clicking on the relevant option during her online credit  card 
application.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms G, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed 
to decide for herself if it was right for her.
 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Ms G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. For example its not clear to me from the screenshot that Canada  
Square clearly and fairly  highlighted  the significant exclusions  and limitations  of cover or 
detailed the full cost information. But Ms G chose to take out the PPI  albeit she likely 
did so based on incomplete information - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And based on what Ive seen of Ms Gs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the significant exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking 
it out. 
This means Canada  Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms G 
because: 
Canada Square  Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Ms G about that. Because 
Canada Square  Operations Limited didnt  tell Ms G that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms G has said - including  what  shes said about having  
savings and the support she says she would have received from family if needed. But these 
points dont change  my decision.  Relying  on family  is not in my view a guaranteed  means  of 
support and I think Ms G understood this and is likely why she chose  to protect  her credit 
card payments by electing to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN98514693my final decision
Ive decided that, Ms G has not lost out as a result  of buying PPI to the extent that Canada  
Square Operations Limited should  pay back everything she paid for it.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I make no other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9851469