K820x#14complaint
Mr O says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr O bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, HSBC dont still have the original documents or a 
recording of the phone  call from Mr Os sale. But Ive looked at a sample  of the credit 
agreement that wouldve  been sent to him after the call. I can see it described  the PPI as 
optional and only displayed  it as a recommendation, not a requirement. There  was a box 
Mr O could sign if he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. In order  to 
get the policy, Mr O wouldve had to actively sign for it, separately to signing for the 
agreement as a whole. So I think its most  likely that HSBC  made  Mr O aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr O or not, so to be fair to him Ive 
assumed they did. That means they had to check the policy  was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks  like it was. For example, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI, and he didnt have any other 
cover in case he lost his job. And while Mr O did have sick pay, the PPI paid out on top and 
gave him more comprehensive  cover, especially when his sick pay reduced to just half pay  
which wouldve been a significant drop in income.
Its possible that the information HSBC  gave Mr O about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it doesnt  look like Mr O was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions  or limitations,  and it would have been useful for him in case something  went  
wrong. So I dont  think better information  was likely to have put Mr O off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN97403532my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9740353