K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs S took out the 
store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs S says the PPI was added without her knowledge, and she had no idea shes been  
paying for PPI. 
FICL has provided evidence of its internal  record to show that the PPI was taken out over 
the phone  in 1999  a few months  after the store card account had been set up. But 
unfortunately due to the length of time thats  passed there  is no call recording for me to listen  
to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed  at the time. But as Mrs S already had the 
credit in place I think she wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition  
of having the store  card.
Ive thought about what Mrs S has said about the PPI being added  without her knowledge, 
but Ive not seen any other evidence from the time to support this. And as the sale took place 
so long ago  around 20 years ago  its difficult to rely on what Mrs S says alone to 
conclude something  untoward happened. So without anything else persuasive to make  think  
me otherwise, I think its unlikely FICL  wouldve added the PPI to Mrs Ss account without 
her permission.
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I 
think its more likely  FICL made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed  to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
I think its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
Ref: DRN98689012been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly balance 
until the policy ended, Mrs S stopped  being unemployed or disabled,  or the outstanding 
balance had been cleared. And even  though  she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay and for longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So I still think the policy  wouldve been useful  for her and I dont think  better 
information wouldve  put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9868901