K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained about a multi-benefit  policy, which included life and critical illness 
protection, sold to her by Aberdein Considine & Co (Aberdein). She has said she was 
pressured into taking  out the policy which was of no benefit to her and she was led to believe 
she had no choice but to take it.
background
In 2015 Miss W was buying  her first home and had arranged a mortgage set up on a capital 
repayment basis. At the same time she was sold a multi- benefit policy which  provided  her 
critical illness and life protection, income protection and accident  and sickness cover,  
matching the amount and term of her mortgage.
Miss W has complained that the policy was of no use to her and that she was pressured into 
taking it out. Shes also said the benefits  of the policy were not explained to her and the 
policy didnt suit her circumstances.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view that it should  
be upheld in part. He felt that because  Miss W had no dependants  or partner at the time of 
the sale the life cover  element of the policy was of no use to her and she had been paying  
unnecessarily for this. He therefore suggested  Aberdein refund the cost of what  Miss W paid 
towards the life cover  part of the policy, plus interest  at 8% simple.
Aberdein didnt agree  with the assessment and remained of the view the policy was suitably 
sold. It felt that while Miss W had no dependents there was guarantee her relatives would  be 
able to deal with the debt had she passed away. It also said the life cover  protected her 
against future risks should she have a family at a later date. And also that her health could 
change meaning  life cover could  not be obtained  so best to secure  the protection earlier  on. 
It also said that if it had sold her a standalone critical illness policy it would have been more 
expensive than what Miss W was actually sold and was paying  for in 2015. However, despite 
this Service asking for confirmation of the exact figures involved to substantiate this it hasnt 
to date provided those  figures.
As the costs of a standalone policy couldnt be confirmed the investigator couldnt  be sure 
one would be more  expensive. So he wasnt persuaded  to change his initial  outcome. 
Therefore, as no agreement could be made the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld  in part.
I know Miss W has said she was pressured into taking  the policy and scare tactics were  
used to persuade  her to take the policy out. But I wasnt at the sales meeting so I cant  say 
with any certainty what was discussed and how the policy  was presented  to her. So whilst 
I am certainly not disputing what Miss W has said, without the evidence to support this point 
I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN99443482I also have found  nothing to confirm Miss W was told she had to take the policy as part of 
the lending criteria for her mortgage. Aberdein has confirmed it was not a condition  of the 
mortgage and I also know from my experience in these products that at this point in time it 
wasnt usual for such policies to be a condition  of residential mortgages.  So again, in regard 
to this point I cant uphold the complaint either.
However, when considering the suitability of the policy  and the protection it provided I think 
this is where the complaint should be upheld.
The policy provided  three different elements of protection, as already detailed  above.
With regard so the protection offered in light of sickness accident  or critical illness  I dont 
think this was unsuitable. I think anyone would find this type of protection  useful should the 
worst happen to their health. In this specific situation  had Miss W been diagnosed with a 
critical illness her policy would  have  paid out a lump sum of cash that she could use to 
redeem the remainder of her mortgage  in full. This clearly would have been useful if she was 
very ill and unable to work as she wouldnt have to worry about  finding  a way of paying her 
mortgage at what  would  undoubtedly  be a very difficult time. As well as this, the income 
protection would  provide a stream  of income  if she became ill and the accident  and sickness  
cover would again provider with her with a means  of income if she was unwell  or suffered an 
accident.
However, with regards to the life cover element, Miss W was single with no dependents  at 
the time of the sale. So there  was no one that would  benefit from a payment under a life 
protection part of policy  had she passed  away. I know  that Aberdein  has said there  is no 
guarantee that her parents would have been able to deal with the mortgage  debt on her 
passing but I can see no record that this was a concern to Miss W and that she wanted to 
provide protection for her parents if the worst should  happen. So, given this I cant see that 
there was anyone that Miss W wanted to protect in relation  to her property in the event of her 
death.
Furthermore, I appreciate  Aberdeins comments that the life policy provided protection 
should her circumstances change in the future, but for advice to be suitable it needs to made 
in light of the circumstances at the time of the sale rather than the future, unless of course 
there is recorded explanations in the documentation  from the sale that the customer wanted 
to think about  future  changes in their circumstances. In this case I havent seen anything  that 
confirms this is what Miss W wanted.
So in my view, given Miss Ws circumstances I find it hard to see how the life cover was 
beneficial to her.
If the cost of the life cover  was so minimal  then there could be an argument  that it could be  
likely Miss W wouldve  agreed to take the entirety  of the policy had she been  given the 
proper details. However, Aberdein hasnt confirmed  the cost of the life cover  element of the 
policy even though we have asked  it several times and even when I know most other 
businesses would do this. So because of this I cant assume the cost would be minimal. 
Therefore, I cant say Miss W would have  agreed  to have  taken it if she had been fully 
informed.
The same applies to Aberdeins argument about the cost of a standalone critical illness 
policy. A standalone  policy may well have been more expensive  but at the same time it may 
not have been  it wasnt sold so long ago and Miss W was young so I cant be sure this is 
Ref: DRN99443483accurate. Again, we have asked Aberdein  to provide costs  of standalone policies from the 
point of sale but again it hasnt done so. So I cant be certain that this would have  actually 
been the case.
Therefore, in lieu of any other compelling information from Aberdein I just cant see why 
Miss W was sold a policy with life protection. 
Therefore as she would  have  had no use for this part of the policy  at the time of the sale, 
I think what she has paid towards  the cost of providing the life cover  should be refunded  to 
her, plus 8% simple  interest on each premium.  
Its worth  Miss W understanding that this may be minimal, but without the exact  details due 
the reasons explained above I cant say what  the redress will be with any certainty.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Aberdein Considine & Co must pay Miss W 
redress as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
                                                                                                                                              
Ref: DRN9944348