K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund her transactions that she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
background
In 2018 Mrs G contacted  HSBC to complain that there were a large  number of transactions  
relating to her debit  card and current account  that she didnt recognise. These transactions 
went back to 2006 and totalled several  thousand  pounds. Mrs G says she has been the 
victim of a sophisticated scam where her genuine  use has been  replicated by a fraudster.  
She includes examples  of more than one transaction in a supermarket on the same day, 
something she says shed never do. So whilst an original  transaction was genuine, there 
have been follow up transactions  that werent her. She says this is in part why it took her so 
long to notice  the fraud.  The account  in question  was closed  by Mrs G in 2016. 
In summary,  HSBC said that they didnt think Mrs G had been a victim of fraud  so they 
declined to refund the disputed transactions. Being unhappy with this response Mrs G 
brought the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators  thought parts of Mrs Gs complaint had been made too late under 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  rules.  And for what  she could  consider,  she didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. Mrs G didnt accept this and the complaint came to me 
for a decision. Ive already  issued  a jurisdiction decision explaining that our service  can only 
consider the complaint in relation to disputed transactions since  13 November 2009.
In September  2019 I issued a provisional  decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  HSBC need 
to do more and Im not intending to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing  for Mrs G, so 
let me explain why. And although the outcome  is the same, my reasoning is slightly different  
to our investigator. So Im issuing a provisional decision to give both parties a further 
opportunity to comment prior to finalising my decision. 
Generally, HSBC can only hold Mrs G liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mrs Gs genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable HSBC  to hold her liable. So I also need to think about  
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mrs G consented  to the 
transactions. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude  that Mrs G 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made  using Mrs Gs genuine card and PIN, but there 
is no convincing explanation for how an unknown  third party could have  known her 
PIN number.
With the exception  of two occasions (which Ill come to below) Mrs G says she was 
never without her card. And there  are many occasions where there  are disputed 
Ref: DRN93239082transactions both preceded by and followed by genuine transactions. Meaning an 
unknown third party would need  to remove and replace Mrs Gs card in a short space  
of time. Im not persuaded its likely this would have been possible over an extended  
period of time, without Mrs G ever having  noticed. 
Mrs G twice reported her card lost or stolen. Once in 2011  and again in 2014.  There  
were no disputed transactions  or attempted transactions whilst she was temporarily 
without her card before a replacement was issued.  
The basis of Mrs G disputing the transactions is on the pattern of spending. Whilst I 
understand the point Mrs G makes,  Im not persuaded  she is accurately able to recall 
which transactions she did and didnt make  going back  over a number of years.  
Particularly when she acknowledges there  are transactions she disputes in the same  
shops that she regularly used. 
A fraudster is likely to try to achieve maximum benefit in a short period of time. The 
circumstances here dont match what Id commonly expect for fraudulent  use of a 
card. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im intending to find that on balance,  I think  its more 
likely that Mrs G or someone authorised by her made the transactions she disputes. It is 
entirely possible that Mrs G made  the transactions herself, but in the years since the 
transactions were  made, has forgotten doing  so. It follows that HSBC  is entitled to hold her 
liable for them.
HSBC didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs G responded and still maintains that a large  number of transactions  werent her based 
on the pattern  of spending. She explains that at the time she had young children and 
wouldnt have returned to a shop, even  if shed forgotten something.
Now both parties have  had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G says that if she were acting fraudulently herself, she wouldnt have left it so long to 
complain and the sums involved  would likely  be higher.  I accept this and I dont think Mrs G 
is acting dishonestly. But Im more persuaded by the evidence  provided by HSBC.
Mrs G has offered to send in a bundle of further  statements that she says provide evidence  
of the pattern she describes.  Ive already reviewed a large number of Mrs Gs statements 
whilst considering this case. And I can see that there are multiple patterns of spending as 
she describes. For example, more than one transaction  in a supermarket in one day. So 
Mrs G providing  more  statements wouldnt make  a difference as Ive seen and acknowledge 
the patterns  she describes.
But for the reasons Ive outlined above,  that isnt sufficient  to persuade me its more likely 
than not that an unknown  third party made  these  transactions. I appreciate Mrs G feels this 
is an inside  job by someone at the bank. But there  isnt evidence  to support that is whats 
happened. 
Ref: DRN93239083And having carefully considered everything  again, I still think its more  likely than not that 
Mrs G or someone authorised by her made the transactions she disputes. It follows that I 
think its fair for HSBC  to hold her liable for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9323908