K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about nine payday  loans Quick Quid  provided  to Mr J from March 2009 
onwards. Mr Js last loan was provided  in April 2010. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Js complaint and thought  that the loans from loans five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view in full. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Ref: DRN90340942As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mr Js monthly  
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr J wouldnt have 
been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing  further.  I dont think  
that Quick Quid could reasonably have believed that Mr J would be able to make  the 
payment over two pay periods  bearing  in mind hed failed to repay lower  amounts for 
loans one, two and four, under similar arrangements, without him needing to borrow 
again a few days later.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr J, I also think 
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mr J was unlikely to have been able to 
make his loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr J was into his ninth month of owing Quick  Quid money. In my view, 
Mr Js loan history  up until this point was in itself a clear  demonstration of his inability 
to settle his loans over the life of the credit  agreement.
Mr J continued to be provided with new loans shortly after having repaid  previous 
ones. And for increasing amounts. So Quick Quid ought to have realised it was more  
likely than not Mr J was having to borrow further  to cover the hole the repayment of 
his previous loans  left in his finances  and that Mr Js indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably. 
Mr J wasnt  making  any real inroads  into what he owed Quick  Quid  and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan nine was 
provided more than a year after Mr Js first. And it was for five times the amount of     
Mr Js first loan.  This meant that Mr J paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, 
service a debt to Quick  Quid  over an extended  period.
I think that Mr J lost out because Quick  Quid provided loans three to nine onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr J owed  Quick Quid  money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Js complaint and Quick Quid  should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans five to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
if it owns the debt, Quick Quid should  deduct  all interest and charges applied  from 
the outset of loan nine from the current outstanding balance.  An outstanding balance  
Ref: DRN90340943is likely  to remain even after all adjustments are made. So Quick Quid  can deduct 
this outstanding balance from the compensation it now needs to pay Mr J should it 
wish to do so. Or if Quick Quid doesnt  own the debt, it needs  to ensure that Mr J 
repays no more than what he was lent. So it would either need to pay an amount to 
the third party  to reduce the debt buy any interest  and charges or pay Mr J and 
amount for him to do be able to do this himself;
the period  of time Mr J owed Quick Quid  money  means that any information  still 
recorded about loans six to nine is adverse.  So all entries  about these loans (where 
they remain) should be removed from Mr Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Js complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr J compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9034094