K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the cash settlement amount esure Insurance  Limited (esure) has 
offered to settle  a buildings insurance claim she made following an escape of water.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 explaining that I wasnt  intending to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Mrs Ms property  suffered an escape of water in March  2018. She reported the issue  
to esure  and it arranged  for a loss adjuster to visit the property to assess the damage 
and validate the claim.
esure accepted the claim and initially offered Mrs M a cash settlement of £3,400. 
Mrs M later provided an electrical condition report which suggested  the property 
needed to be completely  rewired.  She provided her own quote for the works which 
came to around £15,000 and included the rewire  as well as a full replacement 
kitchen.
esure sent out a new loss adjuster who created a scope of works. This included  
replacement of the damaged kitchen units,  but it didnt include any of the electrical 
work. This was because  the loss adjuster said only one element of the electrical work 
required was caused by the escape of water, the rest was pre-existing.  Based on this 
scope, esure  offered  an increased cash settlement of £6647.49 (plus  VAT). It also 
contacted Mrs Ms electrician to ask it to cost the one item of electrical  work it was 
prepared to cover, so it could add this to the offer  but it didnt  receive a reply from 
the electrician.
Mrs M raised a complaint with esure about its decision and the impact the claim was 
having on her and her daughter. esure and Mrs M came to an agreement  that esure 
would pay six months disturbance allowance, which came to £2,400. It also offered  
£150 compensation because it accepted  its initial offer was too low. But esure didnt 
agree that it should cover  the property rewire.
Mrs M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. He said there were differing views on whether 
the damage to Mrs Ms electrics that was caused  by the insured event could  be 
safely repaired without carrying out work  to the rest of the installation.  He thought 
esure could  only fairly offer a cash settlement  to cover the one item if its own 
contractor believed they could repair that damage  in isolation and sign off the work  
as safe. If esure couldnt, he thought it would be fair for it to cover  the cost of any 
works required to deliver an effective  and lasting repair  up to and including a full 
rewire if necessary.
Our investigator thought that there had been  communication issues and delays. He 
recommended that esure should  pay a further three months disturbance allowance 
as the property continued to be uninhabitable.
Ref: DRN95228472Neither Mrs M nor esure agreed with our investigators assessment. Mrs M didnt 
think the recommendations were sufficient to put her back  in the position  she was in 
before the escape of water. esure didnt think it was fair for our service to expect it to 
carry out work to the electrical installation as it would mean Mrs M received 
betterment. It said the work required due to the escape of water  was minor compared 
to the pre-existing  issues. esure also didnt agree that it should pay further 
disturbance allowance. It said the reason the property remained uninhabitable was 
due to the pre-existing condition of the electrics.
Because no agreement could  be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I queried with esure whether it had any expert evidence to show  that the damage to 
the electrics, caused directly by the escape of water, could be repaired without the 
need to carry  out further work  to some of the damage which was likely pre-existing.  It 
didnt, but agreed  to fund an independent  inspection  so that an expert opinion could 
be obtained.
This wasnt possible because, due to the length  of time the claim has been  ongoing,  
Mrs M had already commenced  works  at the property  including stripping out the 
entire electrical installation. But Mrs M was able to provide an estimate, from her 
electrician, for the items of work which  esure said it was prepared to cover.
esure considered the estimate from Mrs M and has made an offer of £895 toward the 
electrical repairs  taking its final cash settlement offer to £7,542.49  excluding VAT. It 
also said it will consider meeting the cost of the VAT when Mrs M can show  that 
shes paid it. 
Now that I have the additional  information  about the electrical installation  issue,  Im 
ready to reach a provisional decision on this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Ms property has suffered damage as a result of an escape 
of water or that her policy provides cover for this. What I need to decide  is whether 
esures offer of cash  settlement  is in line with the terms and conditions  and that it is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
esures policy allows it to choose how to settle a claim. esure  initially decided to settle  
Mrs Ms claim by offering  cash  settlement  which it is entitled  to do. I understand 
that it later offered to provide one of its network  contractors to carry out the works. 
But Mrs M didnt want  to accept this offer.
Because Mrs M is insisting on a cash settlement, esures cash settlement  offer is 
limited to the amount it would cost its contractor  to complete the works. But the scale 
of works required to be considered in the cash settlement offer is still in dispute.
For the sake of clarity, Ill address each point  separately.
Ref: DRN95228473electrical installation
The damage to Mrs Ms electrical  installation  is, in my view, the key element to this 
complaint. It was the disagreement over whether this damage should have been 
included in esures cash settlement that has led to the additional delays in settling the 
claim. So, if I were able to establish  that the damage  to the electrical installation  
should always have  been included, its likely Id also consider further  disturbance 
allowance and compensation  for the distress and inconvenience Mrs M has suffered.
I explained to both esure and Mrs M that I felt esure  was responsible for putting right 
any damage caused directly by the escape  of water. I also explained that if that 
damage couldnt be repaired without needing  to repair pre-existing damage, then I 
thought it would fall to esure to cover  that damage  too. But there was no available  
evidence for me to make that finding.
Because of this, I asked esure  to carry out a new inspection to determine whether the 
damage caused by the escape of water could be repaired in isolation.  But that wasnt 
possible as Mrs M has already removed the electrical installation. Because  a further 
inspection cant take place, I cant fairly determine  whether further  work  to electrical 
installation would have  been required in order to repair  the damage caused  directly 
by the escape of water.
esures loss adjuster reviewed the electrical  condition report. They  agreed that the 
items listed under point  13, which was mainly  damage to light switches and sockets, 
was likely caused by the escape of water. esure  offered to consider an estimate from 
Mrs Ms electricians  for this damage in August 2018. But from what Ive seen, it didnt 
receive this information  until I obtained  it personally from Mrs M in November 2019. 
esure offered its final cash settlement offer, and agreed to consider an estimate for 
the damaged  electrics,  in August 2018.  There is now no way to establish whether its 
offer wasnt  enough  to deliver an effective and lasting repair.  So, in the 
circumstances I dont  think  it would  be fair for me to decide that esure  ought  to have 
done more at the time, or that it needs to cover more than the damage it has offered  
to cover.
Based on the available evidence, I think esures  cash offer of £895 (exc VAT) for the 
electrical damage is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
possible further damage
Mrs M has raised concerns  about the loss adjusters reports which  esure based its 
settlement offer on. Shes pointed out that the inspections were only visual,  and that 
its possible there could  be further damage underneath floors  and ceilings or behind 
walls. 
I raised this concern with esure as it seems likely to me that there may be further  
undiscovered damage. esure has confirmed that if Mrs Ms contractors discover  
further damage when  completing repairs, and Mrs M can provide  evidence of the 
damage which shows that it was caused  by the escape of water, then esure will 
consider making  further payments toward  this damage.
I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN95228474kitchen units
Some of Mrs Ms kitchen  units  were damaged by the escape of water. Because of 
this, Mrs M wants esure to replace (or meet the cost of replacing)  all of the kitchen 
units. 
In his assessment  our investigator said esure had offered to pay for the damaged 
kitchen units and to contribute 50% of the cost of the undamaged units. But Ive since 
checked this with esure and it says the scope of works it produced and based its 
cash offer on includes all of the kitchen units in full, as it believes they were all 
damaged. So, as esures offer includes all of the kitchen units I think  it is fair and 
reasonable.
disturbance allowance and compensation
Disturbance allowance isnt usually something that is specifically covered by the 
terms of insurance policies  and it isnt in Mrs Ms. But our service generally 
considers that it is fair and reasonable for insurers to be prepared  to compensate for 
reasonable additional costs that are incurred as a result of their insured being unable  
to live in their property after an insured  event. 
esure initially agreed to pay Mrs M disturbance allowance at £40 per week  to cover  
the additional cost of fuel she was likely  to incur whilst living  away from her property. 
This amount was later increased, and it paid a total of £2,400 to cover  the period  
between the escape of water and September 2018.
esure says the reason Mrs M remains out of her property is due to the pre-existing 
issues with the electrical  installation.  It says Mrs M took three months to obtain and 
provide the electrical condition report and that it took her until very recently to provide 
the estimate for the damage caused by the escape of water.  Had this information 
been provided sooner, esure  says the works required  to reinstate the property could 
have been completed within the timeframe it has paid disturbance allowance  for.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments both sides have raised. I understand that 
Mrs M has been out of her property since the escape of water, so I can appreciate  
why she feels esure  should  pay further  disturbance allowance.  But based on the 
available evidence, I think the reason that the insured damage wasnt  able to be 
repaired within those six months is because of the ongoing disagreement about  the 
uninsured electrical  damage.
Ive covered above why I dont think it would be fair to hold esure responsible for that 
damage in the circumstances. So, because  I cant fairly conclude that the property 
remained uninhabitable due to insured damage  or the actions of esure, I dont think  it 
would be fair to recommend that esure should pay any further disturbance  allowance.  
In terms of compensation, esure  accepts that its initial cash  settlement offer of 
£3,400 was too low. It revised this offer after Mrs M provided the electrical  condition  
report and her own quotes for the work. esure  accepts its initial offer would have 
caused distress and frustration and has offered £150 to reflect this. I think  this offer is 
fair in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN95228475Ive also considered whether esure  ought  to pay further compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  Mrs M has suffered as a result of her claim.
Home insurance claims, by their very nature, are disruptive. But that doesnt  mean  
that insurance companies should  pay compensation as standard.  I would only expect 
esure to pay additional compensation if I thought its actions had caused Mrs M 
further unnecessary  distress.
 
I do appreciate that Mrs M has suffered a significant  amount distress and disruption 
to her life. And she has explained how this has affected her health and her 
relationship with her daughter. I really  do sympathise. But apart from the issue  with 
its initial offer, which Ive covered above,  I dont  think  esures  actions have been 
unreasonable.
After its initial offer esure instructed  a second loss adjuster to attend the property 
after Mrs M provided further evidence. It agreed  to amend its offer to reflect  the 
electrical damage it believed was related  to the escape of water if Mrs M provided  
further quotes, but it didnt receive  the estimate until November 2019. esure also 
agreed to carry out a further inspection to the electrical installation.
All in all, I think esure has handled this claim broadly as I would have expected it to. 
So, I dont think it would  be fair for me to hold it responsible for the wider distress and 
inconvenience Mrs M has experienced  with her claim.
I said I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. But I expected  esure to settle Mrs Ms 
claim in line with the offers it had made.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  
me to consider before I reached a final decision. esure didnt have anything further to add. 
But Mrs M responded and highlighted her ongoing concerns with how her claim had been 
handled. To summarise  she said:
She feels she should be covered by her home insurance as any person would 
expect to be in her circumstances
There were  too many  people involved in her claim which she feels  has delayed  
things
She feels esure has led our services  investigation and delayed  things by using 
every bit of time we allowed to provide information
The reason  her house was uninhabitable  isnt due to the electrics, but the damage  
to her kitchen, walls and ceilings
As far as she is aware, esure was sent her electricians estimate in August 2018
To the best of her knowledge esure  havent offered to replace all kitchen units,  
only the ones  damaged by the escape of water.
£40 per week for disturbance allowance isnt enough to cover  her additional 
expenses
Ref: DRN95228476After so much time has elapsed, she doesnt feel shell be able to evidence 
whether further  damage that might  be discovered was caused by the escape of 
water
The compensation offered isnt enough to reflect the impact  the situation  has had 
on Mrs M or her daughter and their health.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about all of the points Mrs M has raised.  They are mostly points 
she had raised previously,  so I had already considered them when reaching my provisional 
decision. And having reconsidered those and the new points, my decision remains 
unchanged. Ill explain why in further detail below.
I understand Mrs Ms frustrations regarding  her electrical installation. But as Ive explained, 
her insurance policy only covers her for damage  caused by specified  insured events. And 
based on the available evidence, I dont  think I can fairly conclude  that all of the electrical 
damage was caused by the escape of water. So, in these circumstances I dont think  it 
would be fair to expect  esure to cover  it all.
Mrs M says there were  too many people involved in her claim and that this caused delays. I 
can see that esure used  two different  loss adjusters at different points in her buildings  claim, 
in addition to its own claims  handler. So, its clear  Mrs M would have been communicating  
with several different people during her claim. I can understand this might have been 
confusing for Mrs M. But considering she was unhappy with the offer put forward by the 
initial loss adjuster, I dont  think it was unreasonable for esure to appoint  a different loss 
adjuster to reassess the claim in August  2018.  While I appreciate  there were multiple people 
involved in the claims process, I havent seen any evidence that this caused any 
unreasonable delays.
Mrs M feels  esure have controlled and delayed our services investigation. I want to assure 
Mrs M that our service  has only requested further information from her or esure where  we 
thought it was necessary to reach what we considered to be a fair outcome in her complaint. 
And it was our service  that decided the length of time we would set deadlines for, not esure.
Mrs M says it wasnt just the electrics that caused her property to be uninhabitable. I 
appreciate that there were  more  issues  with Mrs Ms property than just the electrics. But 
esure made an improved  offer to deal with those issues  in August 2018  after Mrs M 
provided her own quotes in July 2018.  And it offered to consider  and add in some of the 
electrical work once  it received the estimate  from Mrs Ms electrician. So, in my view the 
dispute over the electrics  is the reason why her property remained uninhabitable beyond 
then.
Mrs M says she believes her electrician did supply esure with an estimate  for the electrical 
work in August 2018. But from what Ive seen  I dont think its likely that they did. I say this 
because esure offered  to review its offer on receipt  of this estimate, and in communications 
to Mrs M on 28 August 2018 and 8 October 2018,  it stated it hadnt yet received it. I think its 
unlikely esure would have continued to request this information had it been received  when 
Mrs M says it was sent.
Ref: DRN95228477Mrs M says esure never offered to cover all of the kitchen units. She also says the amount 
offered now seems to be based on the cheapest materials available  and doesnt include 
handles, hinges  or labour.
I clarified this with esure and it explained all units are included in the offer. The amount  
offered covers labour and all accessories. It is based on comparable  units  to those Mrs M 
had and is priced at the amount it would cost for one of esures network contractors to 
supply and install them. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mrs M wont  allow  one of esures contractors to do 
the work.  So, in these  circumstances,  I think its fair that esures cash  settlement offer is 
limited to the amount it would cost it to have the work carried  out.
Mrs M says £40 per week disturbance allowance isnt enough to cover her additional 
expenses. esure did initially  offer £40 per week, but this was later increased  to a payment  of 
£2,400 for a period of around six months.  This works out at closer to £100 per week.  Our 
service would expect  esure  to cover the cost of any reasonable, additional costs  a 
policyholder incurred due to being out of their property, if they can be evidenced. But Mrs M 
hasnt provided  esure or our service  with evidence of her additional costs.
In these circumstances, where there isnt evidence of the additional costs,  I think a fair 
amount of disturbance allowance would be around £10 per day per adult and £5 per day per 
child. The amount esure  has offered is broadly in line with these figures.  And I explained in 
my provisional decision why I think esures  decision to only pay disturbance allowance  for 
the period it did was fair. So, it follows that I think esures offer of £2,400  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances or Mrs Ms complaint.
I understand Mrs Ms concern that it might be difficult to evidence whether any further 
damage discovered was related to the escape  of water. But I dont think  its unreasonable  of 
esure to only agree  to cover damage  that is related to the insured  event.  If Mrs Ms 
contractor discovers further  damage, I think its likely that theyll be able to offer an expert  
opinion on whether the damage was caused  by water. And I would expect esure to consider 
the view of a suitably qualified expert when determining whether to cover  any further 
discovered damage.
Finally, Mrs M maintains  that the amount of compensation paid doesnt adequately reflect 
the level of distress and inconvenience she has experienced. I agree that Mrs M and her 
daughter have experienced a significant amount of disruption to their lives,  and I sympathise 
with their situation. But as I explained  in my provisional decision, I think  the disruption they 
have experienced is as a result of the escape  of water, and not because of the actions of 
esure. 
I would only expect esure to pay compensation for distress or inconvenience it has caused,  
rather than for distress which is unavoidable,  following an insured event. esure accepted that 
its initial offer was too low and would have caused  distress. It has offered £150  to reflect this 
and I think that is fair and reasonable. I dont think esure needs  to offer further compensation 
as I dont think it is responsible for the continued issues Mrs M has experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN95228478But, in line with the offers it has made,  esure Insurance  Limited must:
pay £7,542.49  (excluding VAT) to settle the claim, and meet  the cost of the VAT 
when Mrs M can show that she has paid it.
consider meeting the cost of any further damage discovered during the repairs, if it 
can be shown that it was caused  by the escape  of water
pay a total of £2,400 disturbance allowance  if it hasnt already done so
pay a total of £150 compensation for distress  and inconvenience  if it hasnt already 
done so
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9522847