K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Skipton Building  Society gave him incorrect  information about the 
options available to him when he asked about letting  out his property. As a result  he says he 
has lost out on potential rental income.
background
Mr M has a residential mortgage with Skipton.  In May 2018 he called  to Skipton as he was 
interested in renting out his property and wanted to know what  options  were available. The 
adviser told him that the only option  available to him was to apply for a buy-to-let mortgage. 
After further discussion  it was determined that Mr M didnt meet the acceptance criteria for a 
buy-to-let mortgage.  The option of requesting consent to let was not discussed. But Skipton 
has since confirmed that this was something  that was available  to Mr M.
Mr M complained to Skipton that he was given incorrect information. Skipton acknowledged 
that it had made an error and that its adviser  shouldve told Mr M that requesting consent to 
let under his existing mortgage was an option. To put things right it said it would provide 
feedback to the adviser. Skipton also offered Mr M £70 to cover the consent to let fee should 
he now wish to apply and £130 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr M was unhappy with this offer as he says he has lost out on thousands of pounds of 
potential rental income as a result of the error. In follow up correspondence Skipton said it 
would increase its offer to £300. Mr M was still unhappy with this offer so he asked our 
service to look into the complaint.
An investigator considered what had happened. He agreed Skipton had given Mr M incorrect 
information and not told him consent to let might be an option. But he didnt think it would be 
fair to ask Skipton to cover potential lost rental income as there was no guarantee a consent 
to let application wouldve been approved or that tenants wouldve immediately been in 
place. He did though think that Skipton should increase its offer of compensation to £350.
Skipton agreed  with the investigators  view. Mr M did not. He disagreed about the likelihood  
of being able to find tenants  and felt there wouldve been demand for his property. He also 
took issue with the mention of the consent to let being discretionary  as he said he thought 
this was an implied threat by Skipton that it may turn down  any subsequent application due 
to his complaint.  As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In an email to the investigator in September 2019,  Mr M says hes been in touch  with Skipton 
again recently to discuss potential  options  for his mortgage and has again been given 
incorrect information. So he is concerned Skipton is still providing incorrect  or incomplete  
information through its advisers. I understand why Mr M has raised  this recent  incident  and 
the parallels he has drawn with the complaint Im considering. 
Ref: DRN91041242But before our service  is able to investigate a complaint  the business complained about must 
first have the opportunity to respond. And although  the events complained about are similar, 
they are separate instances of advice. And Skipton  hasnt dealt with a complaint about  the 
discussions in September 2019. If Mr M chooses to complain about this to Skipton, and if he 
is unhappy with any response received, we may be able to separately  look into a new 
complaint about  what has happened recently.  But Im unable to consider  these  recent 
discussions as part of this complaint  and so for clarity Im only considering  how Skipton dealt 
with his request  for guidance in May 2018,  and the consequences  of that.
It isnt in dispute that Skipton, through  one of its advisers, gave Mr M incomplete  information 
in May 2018.  Ive listened to the call and its clear Mr M wanted  to know the options  available 
to him. And Skipton  has acknowledged that it mainly  discussed re-mortgaging  to a buy-to  let 
but it should also have made it clear that asking for consent  to let on the existing mortgage  
was an option.  
So what  is left for me to decide is what the fair way to address that mistake  is.
The final response  letter Skipton sent Mr M, when talking about the consent to let procedure, 
says were your application to be accepted  the procedure  would This confirms that the 
procedure is discretionary and subject  to approval by Skipton. When  our investigator 
referred to this in their opinion, they were  making  an observation  that this wasnt  guaranteed. 
There has been no indication from Skipton  that this complaint  would in anyway impact a 
future application. So I dont agree with Mr M that this was threatening. But I do agree with 
the investigator that its an important point. While Skipton couldve provided better 
information to Mr M, I cant say that any application for consent to let wouldve been 
approved. 
Similarly, while I know Mr M is confident that there wouldve been demand for his property  if 
hed put it on the rental market, this isnt a certainty.  There are a number of variables that 
couldve affected demand for the property. Im also conscious, having listened to the phone 
call Mr M had with Skipton, he was uncertain about  whether  it was financially worthwhile to 
try to let out his property in the first place. And if hed been made aware of the potential to 
request consent  to let, he may still have  chosen not to go ahead.
So, as there  is so much uncertainty about whether an application  wouldve been  accepted,  
Mr M wouldve chosen to proceed  or that tenants  wouldve been found and what level of rent 
wouldve been achieved,  I dont think I can fairly  recommend that Skipton compensate  him 
for a potential loss of rental income.
I do agree  it wouldve been upsetting for Mr M when he found out he wasnt given  complete  
information by Skipton.  He relied on them, as the lender and the expert  party, to give him the 
information he was asking for. So I understand  why he is disappointed this didnt happen. 
And I think Skipton  should make an offer to Mr M to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
Having considered all of the information I think the award recommended  by the investigator 
and agreed by Skipton, that it pay Mr M £350  to cover the trouble and upset caused and the 
application fee if he now chooses to apply for consent to let, is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN91041243my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and require Skipton Building 
Society to pay Mr M £350 in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9104124