K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc failed to process his claim for chargeback. He 
wants a refund of the losses hes incurred.
background
Mr E tells us he made initial payments through his MasterCard debit card regarding  the 
purchasing of two property units located abroad. The contracts were with the developer, a 
company Ill refer to as A. Mr E says he was told he could pay any time prior to handing  
over. Mr E said he then made two further payments on the first property before asking for all 
payments to be used  towards the first property. He says he wanted to remove  the second 
property from the purchase. Mr E tells us that A refused to do this and so he asked  for a 
refund. He says this request was also refused. 
Mr E also told us A didnt  provide him with paperwork showing the total amount  hed paid on 
the first property but was requesting more payments - and he began to think something 
wasnt right.  He says he received an email from A, on 1 April 2018,  saying his purchase 
would be cancelled if the money  was not paid. And that when he demanded his money back 
he was told - in order to get a refund - it was necessary for him to travel to the country in 
which A is based, with his receipts.
Clydesdale told us that Mr E had informed it that he had paid a developer - but had not 
received the service. Hed asked for a refund which had been refused. It said it had 
processed a chargeback on the basis that Mr E had said hed been told hed get a refund. 
And it also said Mr E had wanted  to cancel one order and have the funds transferred to the 
other unit. But this wasnt allowed under the scheme. It said the merchant had represented 
the (first)  chargeback so it (Clydesdale) issued a second one to them. Clydesdale advised it 
had then been shown the terms  and conditions of the agreement - which it said stated that if 
payments were not made  on time the order would  be cancelled  and no refund would be due. 
It said when the merchant filed for pre-arbitration it accepted this as it felt the two 
chargeback attempts were invalid and there  was no valid reason to continue.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She emphasised that 
she was only looking at Clydesdales  actions  not those of A or MasterCard. Although it 
(Clydesdale) had initially used the 2016  set of chargeback rules - not the 2018  version  which 
is when the transaction took place  - she did not think this made any material difference.  She 
said the terms and conditions of the agreement had stated that if instalments were not paid 
the deposit would be lost. She explained  that a business does not have to raise or continue 
with a chargeback  if it seems clear a cardholder would lose. And she felt that applied  in this 
situation.
Mr E wasnt  satisfied with this outcome and said he didnt think  Clydesdale had told the truth.  
As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint  an ombudsman  has been asked to make 
the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93289922Im sorry  that Mr E has experienced the distress - as well as the financial loss - which  has 
arisen due to the circumstances  of his complaint. And I can understand his wish to try and 
recover those losses.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
Its important for me to stress  that chargeback is a voluntary scheme  which is operated  by 
some card issuers. This chargeback falls to be dealt with under MasterCards rules. 
Chargeback potentially provides a consumer with extra  protection if something goes wrong 
with the goods and/ or services that are bought using a method of payment covered by the 
scheme. But theres no right for a consumer  to require that a chargeback  claim be made.  
If the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success  I consider  it to be good  practice  for a chargeback  
claim to be made. But I emphasise  that this complaint  is about  whether Clydesdale acted 
fairly in the way it dealt with Mr Es chargeback  claim. Im not deciding  if A or MasterCard 
has done anything  wrong. And its potentially open  to Mr E to take separate  action against 
them if he feels it would be to his benefit.
Its not in dispute  that Mr E entered into two separate  agreements relating to the purchase of 
property abroad.  Ive been provided with copies of the relevant contracts. Although  Mr E 
says hed been told he could pay any time the terms and conditions  of the agreement 
required him to make  payments by set dates. 
Initially, Mr E transferred the reservation  fees in accordance with these conditions.  But he 
told us in his initial complaint:
Soon as I realised they are scammer  I decided to stop further payment and then request  
refund of my money. They went ahead and cancel  my purchase and didnt refund my 
money.
Ive not been provided with any evidence which suggests to me there was anything  unlawful 
or fraudulent about the sales  or the subsequent  manner in which  the purchase process was 
conducted. And whilst  the transactions were  primarily carried  out online - thats a perfectly 
normal means of business. Mr E says he didnt sign any documents - but where agreements  
are entered into online, electronic signatures or other means  of indicating acceptance of 
terms and conditions are normally used. And as Mr E went  on to make  the initial payments it 
seems to me he was satisfied with the process.
I think that these agreements were freely  entered into by Mr E with knowledge  and 
acceptance of the relevant terms and conditions.
Perhaps unusually,  Clydesdale initiated  chargeback based on what  Mr E had told it. And 
before it had seen  the terms and conditions of the agreement. In hindsight, this might have 
raised with Mr E the expectation  that his claim would succeed.  But when - after its second  
chargeback attempt - it was presented  with the terms  and conditions  at the pre-arbitration  
stage it decided not to take the process  further.
Ref: DRN93289923The terms and conditions  of the agreement contain  provisions that - in the event of breach 
by the purchaser - the supplier can cancel  the order and retain fees. Its not for me to decide 
if these conditions would be enforceable but they were set out in the agreement which Mr E 
entered.
Mr E accepts he stopped  payments - which accords with the evidence Ive seen. This shows  
that not all the required  payments were made in accordance  with the terms and conditions.  
Having paid the reservations fees on both properties he appears to have had a change  of 
mind regarding the second property.  And he did not pay the required percentage (10%)  of 
the price relating to the first property by the date this was due - 28 February 2018. 
Our investigator, in her written view, gave a detailed  breakdown of the relevant chargeback 
conditions - which Ill not repeat. And I agree  with her finding that - even if the claim had 
been continued - its highly  likely MasterCard  would have reached  the same  decision (to 
reject the claim) at the formal arbitration stage.  And Clydesdale is under no obligation to 
continue with a claim if it reasonably believes  there is little or no chance of it succeeding. 
Faced with the evidence  of the terms and conditions I think  Clydesdale was entitled to 
conclude there was no valid basis to continue with the claim.
Im also aware Mr E provided an email which appeared  to show that A had agreed to a 
refund - subject to certain  conditions. But Ive not see any persuasive evidence  that it was 
sent by someone  who had authority  to make such an offer.  And the email  did require Mr E to 
travel abroad and present his receipts  in person. Im not aware  he did so. So I dont think 
Clydesdale was wrong to take the view that there  was insufficient  evidence to justify  the 
chargeback based  on this email.
In summary,  I find that Clydesdale tried to process  chargebacks in respect  of the disputed  
transactions. But when these were  defended  - at the pre-arbitration stage  - based  on the 
terms and conditions of the agreement - I think that it reasonably  concluded that there was 
no realistic prospect of the chargeback being successful. So it was entitled to stop the 
process at that point.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr E Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9328992