K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about  the amount of compensation  that Bank of Scotland  plc 
(BOS) has offered to settle  their complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy taken out alongside a loan.
background
Mr and Mrs F complained to BOS that they had been mis-sold PPI with a loan ending 7475.  
BOS agreed to settle their complaint and offered to refund  the costs  paid for the PPI which  it 
says was £1,077.10 plus 8% simple interest for any period Mr and Mrs F were  out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs F were  not happy  with the offer as they said the compensation wasnt refunding  
everything they had paid for the PPI policy. And they brought their complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what BOS had worked out and offered  was fair. Mr and Mrs F didnt 
agree so asked  for an ombudsman to look at their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The copy  of the loan agreement for loan 7475 shows  Mr and Mrs F wanted  to borrow £5,000 
for their own use, to repay over 24 months.  The interest payable on this amount was 
£655.62. They also took out a PPI policy which cost £960.42 and they also borrowed this 
amount as well. The interest payable on the PPI premium was £126.00  if the loan ran to 
term. 
In total Mr and Mrs F would have repaid a total of £6,742.04 for all the borrowings and 
interest. Of this amount £1,086.42  was for the cost of the PPI premium  and interest  on that 
premium. 
Mr and Mrs F paid off the loan early.  When this happens not all the interest would normally  
be paid and a rebate of any excess interest is made to the account. Also when a PPI policy  
is cancelled early a small  amount of the premium  is refunded. 
When a PPI policy is mis-sold the business must put the consumer  in the position they would 
have been in if they had never bought the policy. That means paying back all the costs paid 
for the PPI plus some compensatory interest for the periods the consumers have been out of 
pocket.
BOS has calculated that Mr and Mrs F are due to be paid back £1,077.10  for the costs  of the 
PPI. This is made up of the amount they paid when making the monthly repayments, plus 
the amount that was repaid in the final settlement payment. In addition  BOS has worked out 
8% simple  interest on this which  comes  to £1,501.66 before tax.
The loan account was settled by Mr and Mrs F on 19 December 2001 and on 20 December 
2001 a further entry  shown on the statement says: Ins E/Sett  Rebate  Credit - £1.64.
The balance had not been cleared by the final payment made  by Mr and Mrs F. There was 
an amount of £50.88 still outstanding as shown on the loan statement. This insurance  rebate 
Ref: DRN92347822of £1.64 for the PPI was set against the amount outstanding and then a further rebate 
applied to clear  the balance  to zero.
Mr and Mrs F did get a total rebate of £50.88  which included the small rebate on early 
cancellation of the PPI. The remaining rebate would account for some  interest.  The interest 
would be split between  the PPI interest and the other loan interest. 
As I have already  said, the maximum Mr and Mrs F would ever have  paid for the PPI, as 
shown on the loan agreement, would have been  £1,086.42, if the loan had run to term. BOS 
in its offer shows the total costs calculated  as paid for the PPI included  in the compensation 
is £1,077.10. Allowing for the rebates applied at the time of settlement, I think what BOS has 
offered is fair. It is only some £10.00 less than the total cost that Mr and Mrs F would have 
paid for the PPI, including  all the interest, if the loan had run to full term. 
As the borrowings were  in joint names this compensation was notified individually  to 
Mr and Mrs F, both being offered 50%.  But if paid into a joint account it would pay the total of 
the compensation to that account.
Mr and Mrs F have  said they think BOS has only repaid £560.42 of the PPI costs  but this is 
not the case. This was the amount included in the monthly payments paid for the PPI whilst 
the loan was running. In addition to this BOS has in its offer included interest on the 
payments and also the amount of PPI costs included in the final settlement amount  paid to 
clear the loan. 
So I think what BOS has offered is fair and repays  all the costs  of the PPI that Mr and Mrs F 
paid for the PPI plus gives them  some  compensatory interest for being  out of pocket.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think that what Bank  of Scotland plc has offered in 
compensation to Mr and Mrs F is fair. If the compensation has not yet been paid Bank of 
Scotland plc should update the 8% simple  interest to the date of final payment. Otherwise  
Im not telling it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9234782