K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC made  mistakes in dealing with her business 
borrowing and bank  account which meant  she could  not make  repayments and her 
borrowing was transferred to the recovery section.
background
Mrs R took a secured  business loan from Lloyds in 2008.  She also had an overdraft facility 
of £2,500. She accepts she did face some  seasonal trading issues and business problems 
which meant she was not always  able to make her loan payments on time. And there  were  
excesses of her current account  balance over her overdraft limit and items were  returned 
unpaid. Her borrowing was transferred to management by Lloyds business support unit in 
April 2017 and plans  put in place  to clear loan arrears. Her overdraft was extended  but only 
for six months at a time. Mrs R opened an account with a different business and Lloyds 
received a current account switching request from that business in April 2018. It tried to 
discuss this with Mrs R and it made arrangements for a servicing  current account for her 
loan payments. 
Lloyds raised concerns  with Mrs R about the lack of credits to her account,  the further 
excesses and a missed loan payment in May 2018.  Having not had a response it issued a 
final demand for the overdraft and the loan in June 2018. Repayment was not made and the 
account transferred  to the recovery section. Lloyds  said it would not be prepared  to reinstate 
the loan with ongoing monthly payments. But it said it would allow  Mrs R time to refinance 
her borrowing and she made plans to do so.
Mrs R complained about the charges  to her current account and Lloyds said that these had 
made applied  correctly and reflected the conduct  of her account. As a gesture of goodwill it 
refunded £1,000 of charges. Lloyds did not agree that it had acted unfairly in transferring  her 
borrowing to recovery and said that this was not the result of any errors  with the account 
switching process.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that Lloyds so anything  more. In summary she said that:
-Lloyds had provided evidence of the contact it had with Mrs R when her account was 
being managed by the business  support  unit. There had been  late payments to the 
loan which were  corrected. But Lloyds had said to Mrs R that it was not prepared  to 
see this pattern continue. It set this out in letters from December 2017 expressing its 
concerns.
-Lloyds wrote a further letter on 24 April 2018  and said that the overdraft would need 
to be repaid within six months. 
-It received a switch  request from the other  business and wrote  to Mrs R and asked 
that she contact it urgently about  this so that arrangements  could  be put in place to 
set up an account to service the loan.
-On 1 May 2018 it wrote to Mrs R to say that the servicing account  was set up and 
there are notes of a call with Mrs R about this on 2 May 2018.
-On 10 May 2018 it wrote to explain that the account switch could not go ahead  
unless arrangements were made to repay the overdraft. It then wrote on 6 June 2018 
to say that the loan was in arrears  and unless this was addressed  it would start its 
recovery process. Mrs R has told Lloyds she did not receive these letters and one 
digit in the postcode  it used was incorrect.
-Demands for repayment were made on 19 June 2018 and the accounts  transferred 
for recovery on 17 July 2018.  
Ref: DRN96031002-She thought  that Lloyds had highlighted its concerns about the borrowing over 2017 
and 2018. It had wanted to discuss the specific issues about the account switch  with 
Mrs R. It told Mrs R both in writing and by phone about the new loan servicing 
account. It had made clear that the switch could not go ahead  until the overdraft had 
been repaid. So our adjudicator didnt  agree  it was Lloyds fault that the switch  failed.
-Even if as Mrs R says she had not seen its letters of concern in May and June  2018  
she was already reasonably aware  of the concerns  and possible action Lloyds might  
take.
-Mrs R had not dealt  with the excess  position on the overdraft or ensured  that loan 
repayments were made. And shed received information about  how to make  these 
loan payments.
-Lloyds had no record of the attempted payments Mrs R says she made after the 
formal demand.  But Lloyds  had decided it wanted the full balance repaid then.
-It considered her complaint about  charges. And it had made a commercial decision 
not to continue with this borrowing,  explained this to her and had given Mrs R time to 
refinance the borrowing. Lloyds had not acted unfairly.
Mrs R did not agree. She wanted the events from the date she asked for her account to be 
switched looked  at rather than what happened  before that. She thought that Lloyds  is 
responsible for the issues with her business cash flow that resulted. It had closed  her 
account and made it impossible for her to make repayments of the overdraft. It did not give 
her or the business where she had opened  a new account the details of how to make  
payments to the loan. The past history  of her borrowing  had nothing  to do with this. She 
thought that Lloyds dominant position had led to her business failure. And she said that this 
service had not made sure that we were on her side and she wanted to know  what our 
success rate was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the difficult business problems that Mrs R has faced and the distress she felt 
when her borrowing  was transferred  for recovery and she had to look to refinance this. I 
need to make clear  that this service  provides  informal  dispute  resolution and acts impartially.  
With this in mind we dont  have a success rate. We treat each complaint on an individual 
basis taking into account the circumstances.
I also know Mrs R wants me to look at the issues with switching independently from what 
had happened  before.  For reasons  Ill explain thats not possible. But I will start by saying 
what I think were  some  of the specific issues with switching which would have  applied  in any 
event.
Lloyds received the request to switch the current account from the new business  
electronically. There would be a nominated switch over date with the other bank.  Its clear  to 
me that Lloyds could  not switch and then close this account unless Mrs R dealt with the 
overdraft. Either she could repay it or the new business could agree to take this over.  Until 
that happened I dont see how the switch could complete. It also has said in a letter dated 4 
September 2018 in response  to her complaint that having made a switched request once 
this is recorded  on the account any incoming credits will be redirected to the switched  bank.
Ref: DRN96031003The other main issue related to the loan repayments. The terms of the loan meant that there 
needed to be a feeder account  for the loan at Lloyds. Ordinarily this would be the current 
account but on closure there was a requirement for a servicing account. Mrs R would have 
needed to make payments into this in advance  of Lloyds taking payments for the loan. It 
would not have been possible to have transferred the loan payment mandate from the 
existing current account to the new bank  account.
Staying only with the switch itself I can also see that Lloyds  did write to Mrs R on 25 April 
2018 about the switch  request  and the manager  stated I need  to discuss  this with you 
urgently because she needed to understand Mrs Rs plans  for her debt. The letter said that 
voicemail messages  had been left. The case notes from Lloyds indicate Mrs R had a call 
with the relationship manager about  this on 27 April 2018 but did not clarify her plans.  She 
spoke to the manager at the business  support unit on 2 May 2018  and it was noted that    
Mrs R admits she is avoiding my call as she does  not want to talk to me. She was reported 
to have said that she is working  on dealing with the overdraft.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Lloyds  sent to Mrs R on 1 May 2018  about the servicing  
account giving the details.  So I dont  agree  that Mrs R was not aware  of how to make 
payments to the loan. If that wasnt clear  she had the opportunity  to clarify this with staff. And 
as I say this is not something that her new bank could have automatically  taken  over through 
switching. I understand  that this servicing  account was closed when the borrowing was 
transferred to recovery.
Lloyds did not initiate the switching request.  But under  any circumstances this could not go 
ahead until Mrs R had made arrangements  for her overdraft. I know she said she attempted  
payments but Im not clear that these happened  before the formal  demand. And there were 
the issues with receiving credits to the account and new arrangements for the loan. But I 
dont see Lloyds made any mistake and in my view it attempted to contact Mrs R to explain 
what was required.
Im now going to bring in the background which is relevant  and which was in my view a 
compounding factor due to the issues with the switching Ive identified here. I agree with  
Mrs R that once Lloyds  knew  she wanted  to switch  her account  it did change  the approach 
to her borrowing. Lloyds  had been expressing concerns about the conduct of the current  
account for some time. And about late payments to the loan which is says had numbered  25 
over its history. It had previously said to Mrs R that she had another  six months  to clear the 
overdraft from April 2018. But as I say once the account was going to be switched it 
expected the overdraft  to move with the account  and be cleared then. There  were  ongoing  
excesses on the account in part caused  by the April 2018 loan payment. And the loan 
payments for May and June 2018  were not made. I dont find that this was the fault of Lloyds 
in the switching process as I set out above.
Its unfortunate that its letters  of May and June 2018 had a one digit error  in the postcode.  
And through  her solicitors  Mrs R said she did not receive these. But I agree with our 
adjudicator that she already knew of Lloyds  concerns about her account  conduct by that 
point and the possible consequences. And that Lloyds now expected her overdraft borrowing 
to be cleared. Mrs R did have conversations around that time with both her relationship 
manager and the manager in the support unit.
I fully appreciate that Lloyds decision to make demand would  still come  as a significant blow 
for Mrs R. And clearly  she did not have a means  to refinance the loan in the timescale, even  
if she could have repaid the overdraft. That meant her borrowing was transferred to 
Ref: DRN96031004recovery. Id expect Lloyds to consider her proposals for the borrowing but that didnt meant 
it had to agree to reinstate  the loan. It had taken a decision  that it no longer wanted to 
continue with the borrowing. So while it agreed temporary arrangements  they were always  
with a view to the borrowing being  refinanced. It made clear to Mrs R that it would otherwise 
be looking  to take recovery action. My understanding is that Mrs R was later successful with 
arranging refinancing but was concerned  at the costs that had been involved and the 
disruption to her business.
I know Mrs R will be very disappointed when I say that I dont think  Lloyds has made  a 
mistake with the switching  process. And I dont think it has acted unfairly  taking into account 
that it took action  on her borrowing  following  payment  issues  it had brought to her attention. 
It was entitled to do that and I think that it had considered what shed said. I understand that 
one reason Mrs R wanted to switch her account was because there was no branch local to 
her to pay in credits.  As Ive explained  even without her history of difficulties that decision to 
switch would have  led to some issues for her. However, in light of her business payment 
difficulties at that time Im afraid that her actions did seem to crystallise things with Lloyds in 
what I accept was a very unfortunate  way for her. But Im afraid  for the reasons Ive given I 
dont have a basis  to require Lloyds to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9603100