K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) incorrectly recorded the outcome of a 
claim on a shared insurance database.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr C told UKI hed been involved in an incident  with another  driver. Neither driver made  a 
claim and UKI closed the incident as notification  only in June 2018. In December 2018 
another insurer, which Ill reference to as AI, told Mr C that the claim was showing as a fault 
claim on a shared insurance database.
Mr C complained to UKI, which said it had recorded the claim correctly. But it accepted  that it 
had given Mr C conflicting information, so it offered him £75 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr C didn't think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
thought UKI had done enough  to put things  right.  Mr C didn't agree so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
UKI didn't ever pay out for a claim and I've seen  its notes  say it had closed the claim down in 
June 2018 as being notification only. That is that it was a non-fault incident that doesnt 
affected Mr Cs no claims  discount (NCD).  And it believed it had updated the shared 
database with that information at the time.  So its not clear why the record  on the shared 
database didnt  reflect that when AI looked  at it. Its also apparent that, when it accessed  the 
database itself,  it thought  it showed the claim  as non-fault  with no payments  made, in other  
words as notification only.  But when it looked  into that further  it said it had updated  the 
database to ensure it was showing as notification only. 
Mr C said it wasnt  acceptable that it took UKI a year to correct  its mistake. But I think  hes 
mistaken about the timing. UKI closed the claim down in June 2018 and Mr C learned about 
the issue with the shared database in December 2018. It then took UKI eight  days - from the 
date Mr C first contacted it - to ensure the database  was correctly recorded.  I think  that was 
a reasonable timeframe  to respond. Im aware that UKI gave Mr C some  conflicting 
information in the meantime about  how the claim had been recorded and whether or not it 
required amendment but UKI paid him £75 compensation  to address the impact  of that. And 
I think thats fair.
Mr C suggested that, given the time UKI took to correct  the database, hes not sure that the 
price hes paying  now is correct. But Ive seen that as soon as UKI learned  about Mr Cs 
concerns it told AI that the incident  was notification only, which  it then confirmed in writing.  
So regardless of what the database said, UKI confirmed  the true status of the claim at an 
early stage to AI. And, in any event,  UKI isnt responsible for the premium  another insurer  
Ref: DRN96627272charges. So if Mr C has any concerns about  whether or not hes paying the right premium  he 
needs to take that up with his current insurer.
Ive also seen a letter from AI to Mr C dated 14 December  2018. That is some  four days 
before UKI updated the shared database.  And in that letter AI confirmed it was aware that 
the incident was notification only, no claim was made and nothing paid out. So its clear  AI 
was aware of the correct status  of the claim at that point. So any confusion  over the status of 
the claim on the database was no longer affecting how AI considered  the incident at that 
time. 
Mr C added that all other  motor insurance quotes  hes received would have been based on 
the incorrect information on the shared database.  But I think  thats  unlikely. In my experience 
most insurers will offer quotes  based  solely on the information that the consumer gives when 
asking for a quote. So as long as Mr C told insurers hed been  involved in a notification  only 
or non-fault  incident then thats the information  those insurers  would use when providing a 
quote, as most insurers Im aware of wouldnt  necessarily examine the database at quote 
stage. So I dont think Mr Cs been  affected by the way in which  UKI recorded the incident on 
the shared database.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9662727