K820x#14complaint
Miss Q says her loan application in December 2017  shouldnt have been approved, as this 
was irresponsible  lending  by Future  Finance Loan  Corporation Limited (Future Finance).
background
Miss Q applied  for a loan for £12,500  online with Future Finance in December 2017. As part 
of the application process,  Miss Q was asked  to provide information about  her 
circumstances so that Future  Finance  could  assess whether to approve the loan.
Miss Q recorded that:
-she was a full-time student  and wasnt in any paid employment;
-she was due to graduate  in July 2018;
-her last paid employment ended in September 2017 with a yearly income of £33,600,  
and shed earned £36,000 in the role before  that;
-she wasnt in receipt  of a student loan; and
-her total monthly  outgoings were £1,650, made up of rent (£850), food,  (£100), debts 
(£600), and other expenses (£100)
Following a credit check on this application, Miss Qs outstanding debt from her credit report 
was recorded  as £22,095. The credit  report also showed that Miss Q didnt have any 
defaults showing at the time of application.  Miss Q had defaulted twice  24 months prior to 
the application, but had had no missed payments in the last 10 months. 
Miss Qs loan application was declined. 
Miss Q was contacted shortly after this and was told that as Future Finances lending criteria 
had changed,  it would  be possible for a loan for £8,000 over a term of 5 years to be 
approved. The loan would be based  on reduced  monthly repayments of £5 until three 
months after Miss Qs expected graduation date. The loan repayments would increase to 
£219.26 from October 2018  until the end of the loan term in December 2022. The 
affordability of the loan was based on a number of lending factors including Miss Qs credit  
score, and future earning  ability. At the time of application, the average monthly net income  
predicted for a graduate  studying the same  course  as Miss Q, with the same course 
provider, was £2,354.17. Miss Q went ahead with the loan. 
In March 2019 Miss Q contacted Future Finance to complain about  the loan being  approved  
when it shouldnt have  been. Miss Q said that the loan wasnt  affordable,  and Future Finance 
didnt take this into consideration when approving it. Future Finance rejected Miss Qs 
complaint saying that it had acted fairly in completing affordability  checks, and didnt offer 
any compensation. 
The investigator found that Future  Finance had acted fairly  and didnt recommend it do 
anything more to resolve  the complaint. Miss Q disagreed with this saying that the loan 
wasnt affordable at the income projected. As the complaint  couldnt  be resolved its been  
passed to me for decision.  
Ref: DRN94599902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having reviewed the evidence I broadly agree with the investigators findings  on this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment  to Miss Q but I hope  
my findings  go some  way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused  my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
We wouldnt look to tell a business what lending criteria to use when assessing affordability. 
We look at the factors  taken into consideration by a business when  reaching  a decision on 
whether to lend,  and whether we think enough was done to assess  affordability  at the time. 
The application process allowed Miss Q to provide information about her circumstances so 
that Future Finance could assess affordability. Whilst  Miss Qs initial application was 
declined, Future  Finance  reached out to Miss Q following  a change in its lending criteria. 
Miss Q was then able to borrow a reduced  amount which was considered affordable by 
Future Finance.
The purpose of Miss Qs loan with Future Finance was to provide Miss Q with additional 
money whilst  she was studying. As Miss Q had indicated she was a student, and was due to 
graduate in July 2018, the loan was set up so that reduced payments would be made during 
the initial period,  with increased payments being  made around the time Miss Q was 
expected to be in full time paid employment.
Future Finance  say that its assessment criteria included  projected unemployment rates,  and 
average earnings data specific to the course  provider  and type of course  being  studied. The 
data used for Miss Q (based on information  shed provided)  indicated that the likelihood  of 
securing employment  was high. Using average  earnings for a graduate completing the same 
course, together with the financial  information  provided by Miss Q, it was determined  that her 
projected monthly income would be in the region  of £2,354.17, making  the loan affordable.
Miss Q has explained that before starting  her course, she had secured employment with a 
legal practice (who had also offered financial support for completing the course).  However as 
she didnt pass the course, she didnt go on to do the job she was hoping for. Miss Q says 
that Future Finance were unaware of her job offer, so the loan application wouldnt have 
been based on any likely projected income  for this job. Because of this, Miss Q disagrees 
with Future Finances assessment of her disposable income.  
In this case Miss Q provided  details  about  her financial circumstances, including the income 
earned from previous  employment, and her financial outgoing at the time. As part of the 
application process, Future Finance  also obtained  a credit report  to find out more  about Miss 
Qs financial history. This evidence was used alongside Future Finances own financial data 
informed by statistics  for the course Miss Q was studying. As Miss Qs loan payments were 
due to increase  after she graduated, I think it was fair that Future Finance referred to data 
showing the employment prospects and likely earnings for students graduating from the 
same legal course provider and course  as Miss Qs. 
Whilst Miss W didnt  go on to complete  her legal training with the employer who sponsored  
her course, I think the steps taken by Future Finance to verify  the likelihood  of Miss Q 
Ref: DRN94599903gaining employment,  and Miss Qs likely income  in this sector, were fair. As Miss Qs loan 
was set up so that payments increased  only after graduation,  it was reasonable for Future 
Finance to use projected data to inform its decision on whether to lend. Based on the 
information Miss Q had provided, together with the credit file report, and Future Finances 
own data about  future  projected income,  I cant say the decision to lend was unfair,  or 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9459990