K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) have rejected a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) (s75).
background
Mr D put down a £1,000  deposit for a sofa in March 2018. He paid the deposit using his 
Tesco credit  card but when he later informed the merchant he wanted to cancel the order,  
they refused to allow him to.
So Mr D raised a s75 claim  with Tesco as he said, as the provider of credit, they were jointly 
liable. He told Tesco that the sales agent  had provided him with swatches when he visited 
and informed him that hed send over the dimensions of the sofas as Mr D hadnt had the 
chance to measure them during his visit. He says he was unsure about  the colour and size 
but the sales agent pressurised  him into placing a deposit and didnt  explain  the order form 
to him before  he signed it. He said the text on the form was difficult  to read, as it was so 
small. And when he received the measurements  the sofas were too big. But the merchant 
wouldnt return his deposit and he therefore asked Tesco to support his s75 claim and refund  
it.
Tesco didnt  agree that Mr D had a valid s75 claim.  They said there needed to be proof  of 
either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  of the goods. But they werent satisfied 
that there  was. 
So Mr D referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  reviewed the case. He 
didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong. He understood  that Mr D said hed not been 
advised about dimensions but he explained that the merchant disputed  Mr Ds version of 
events. He noted that the order form set out that the goods were  being reserved in Mr Ds 
choice of style, size and colour  and also explained that the deposit  was non refundable. And 
as Mr D had signed  the form to confirm he understood it he thought  this was more 
persuasive evidence  of the agreement that had been struck on the day. He therefore didnt 
think there was evidence of a breach  of contract or a need  for Tesco  to support Mr Ds s75 
claim.
But Mr D disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D but from the evidence Ive been provided with I am not 
persuaded there is a valid s75 claim here.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN99471452When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  a finance provider can 
be responsible  for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation  made by the supplier. 
was there  a breach of contract?
I dont think there was here. Theres no record of the conversation  Mr D had with the sales 
agent but there is a signed  order form that sets out the agreement  that was reached during 
the consultation. That agreement explains the shape,  colour  and model of the sofas Mr D 
was ordering and explains the overall cost and the deposit required. It says:
it is important you understand your order is a firm and legally binding contract and your 
deposit is non returnable.
I accept that the font is small but this section is in bold to draw the consumers attention.
I understand that Mr D says the order form wasnt explained to him and that he had difficulty  
reading the text but he did have a responsibility  to ensure he understood the deal he was 
entering into and, in the absence of other more tangible evidence, Im persuaded that there 
was not a breach of contract.
was there  a misrepresentation?
I can see that the shape, colour and model are described on the order  form and Ive not 
seen any evidence other than Mr Ds contested statement,  that what  he was told was 
inaccurate. So I dont think  it would be reasonable to suggest the products were  
misrepresented to Mr D.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9947145