K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Capital Cash Limited  (CCL) was irresponsible in that it lent to him and 
he was trapped  in a debt spiral such that he had to continue borrowing. Mr B says that 
proper checks would  have  revealed  that his finances were in a state of disarray. 
background
CCL has informed us that Mr B had 26 cash advances from one of its Cash Converters  
Stores between  July 2013 and April 2015. CCL has told us that the total amount lent was 
£6,927 and Mr B repaid just under £8,909. 
CCL responded  to Mr Bs complaint in March  2018  and conceded in relation  to cash 
advances 18 to 26. CCL offered  a sum of money plus interest but it is not clear as to which  
loans this refund related. Mr B had fourteen days to respond. He did not accept that offer 
and brought his complaint  to this service.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and her opinion was that the checks CCL 
carried out before lending  to Mr B for Loans  1 to 5 were proportionate and so she did not 
think that the complaint should  be upheld for these five loans.
From Loan  6 to 26 our adjudicator did not think that CCL had given enough  consideration to 
how the loans  were being used. She felt that from Loan 6, CCL should have checked  
whether Mr B was reliant on the loans and whether approving further  loans was 
unsustainable for him or otherwise harmful. Her opinion was that CCL should  put things right 
for Mr B in relation to Loans 6 to 26. 
Mr B was satisfied with our adjudicators findings  and took no issue with the fact that 
Loans 1 to 5 had not been upheld. CCL did not agree. It did not consider that Mr B was 
reliant on the loans.  It carried  out detailed income and expenditure statements and checked 
Mr Bs bank  account statements for each loan. 
So the part of the complaint which remains unresolved  Loans 6 to 26  will be considered 
by me and within the context of the whole lending relationship.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Bs case. 
Mr B completed applications and CCL has sent to us copy  records. The first one in July 2013 
shows me that Mr B told CCL he was self-employed  and received an average wage of about 
£480 a week.  Mr B gave  to CCL copy bank account statements which I have  seen. It shows 
he had a £10 overdraft limit. And his company drawings can be seen to have credited his 
account on 12 July 2013 being £576  and a week earlier on 5 July 2013 for £480.  
This pattern continued. And having asked Mr B for an explanation  as to why he took the 
loans he said that they supplemented  his income  and he needed it for bills including rent 
(often paid by cash), and that he was gambling  at the time.  And part of what did become 
apparent from the statements I have seen provided  by CCL is that Mr B was spending 
Ref: DRN95229832money on gambling websites. So CCL was on notice as to this element of Mr Bs finances. 
And Mr B has confirmed that he was gambling at the time.
In addition, the statements reveal  that CCL would have been aware that Mr B was using 
other short term lenders.  
There was a gap in lending between paying  off one loan in September  2014 and taking the 
next in December 2014. This was a relatively short time and as CCL had been lending  to 
Mr B for 13 months by that stage  I do not consider that the gap to be a significant one. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
CCL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Bs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Bs complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did CCL, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  
itself that Mr B would  be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr B would  have been able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did CCL act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about all of these questions and what  they mean for Mr Bs complaint.
Did CCL, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself 
that Mr B would be able to repay  in a sustainable  way? If not, would those  checks have 
shown that Mr B would  have been  able to do so?
Ref: DRN95229833In view of the background to this complaint (referred to above) then I think that the earlier 
cash advances are not in dispute and so I say no more about them. And in any event  the 
checks CCL carried  out were proportionate.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for Loans 6 to 26 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at 
which CCL should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so CCL should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further lending.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 6 (approved on 8 November 2013) and I say this because the amounts Mr B was 
borrowing were generally increasing, and CCL ought to have  realised it was likely that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. An example is that the loans in October 2013 
combined added up to about £550 and in November  2013 the two loans  added  up to over 
£600.
I think that Mr B lost out because CCL continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  Loans  6 to 26 because the overall pattern of 
lending increased  his indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and he lost out as a result.
Did CCL act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude CCL acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr B in some other 
way.  
Ref: DRN95229834putting things right  what CCL needs  to do
CCL should 
 
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loans 6 (approved 8 November  2013)  to 
26 (approved 18 April 2015);
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from Loan 6 means any information recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  Loans 6 to 26 should  be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file if those entries were  made  in the first place.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires CCL to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Capital Cash Limited should  pay redress as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I need to ask Mr B to accept or reject 
my final determination  on or before 11 May 2019 
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9522983