K822xcomplaint
Mr A disputes the refurbishment charges that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED 
(Startline) levied when he returned  a car he had on finance with them.
background 
In April 2015 Mr A took receipt of a used car. He financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with Startline.  At the point of supply  the car was seven years old and had 
completed just over 66,000 miles.
In 2018 Mr A voluntarily  terminated his agreement, as was his right,  and returned the car. 
His hire purchase agreement explained that the car would need  to be returned  in a good  
condition and Startline  therefore arranged an independent inspection to confirm that was the 
case. Mr A was told there was damage  to thirteen areas and was asked to pay 
refurbishment charges  of £675.16.
He complained to Startline and they reduced the charge to £560  when,  at auction, the 
vehicle sold for more than was expected.  But Mr A was still dissatisfied and he referred his 
complaint to this service.  Startline looked  again  and decided to reduce the charges further. 
They said it was clear  the alloy wheels needed  refurbishing but dropped  all the other 
charges. The current  requirement is for Mr A to pay £119.48 for refurbishment to four alloy 
wheels. 
But Mr A still disputed  the charge. He said that Startline were charging  him for rust and 
corrosion but this wasnt possible on plastic parts. So he referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator thought that rust and corrosion  were not appropriate words to use when 
describing the damage but he thought there  was wear and tear damage to the alloys and 
that the charge was reasonable. However,  he didnt think Startline  had been  fair when 
responding to Mr As complaint.  Their initial reduction in charges was made because the car 
sold for a higher value than theyd anticipated  and theyd not considered the actual damage.  
The investigator thought that if they had they would have provided  Mr A with the proper bill 
of £119.48, earlier.  He therefore  thought Startline should compensate Mr A as their failure to 
provide this figure earlier amounted to poor customer service. He thought  the best way to 
compensate him was to remove the charge completely.
But Startline disagreed. They said there  was nothing unusual in the way theyd initially  
assessed the damage - it was normal to use a third party inspector. They explained  that 
theyd reduced the charge to take account  of the age of the vehicle and any damage that 
may have  been  present at inception.  But they insisted that they had acted reasonably  and 
that Mr A was not entitled to compensation.  Startline therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN92508462Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire purchase agreement,  Mr A signed, explained that the car would need to be returned  
in a good condition. But when assessing that condition Startline needed to consider the age 
and mileage of the vehicle.  
The third party inspection  appears to have been  completed to the standards  provided  by the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA). But these standards are meant  for 
new vehicles and Mr A took receipt  of a car that was seven  years  old and had completed 
66,000 miles. The inspection therefore needed to be reviewed and sense checked  so that it 
took account of the vehicles condition at the inception of the finance deal. 
I think this assessment has now taken place.  Im satisfied that the condition of the alloys is 
beyond what would  be considered fair wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage but 
that the other costs, that had been  levied, should  be removed.
Im also persuaded  that Startlines reference to rust and corrosion is acceptable.  I say that 
because it is a standard phrase used  by car inspection companies which I think may refer to 
other types of damage to the alloys and also because Ive reviewed the inspection  report  
and can see the damage thats referred  to. Its beyond normal  wear and tear.
But if the inspection  report had been  reviewed  with the cars  initial  age and condition in mind 
its clear that Mr A wouldnt have had to raise a complaint. Hes therefore been  
inconvenienced by Startlines process  and I agree with the investigators view that they 
should now waive the refurbishment  charges as I think that represents fair compensation for 
the trouble Mr A has been put to.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell STARTLINE  MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to waive  the charge of £119.48 to compensate  Mr A for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of their actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9250846