K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background 
Mrs R had British Gas cover including for her central heating  system and for her plumbing 
and drainage.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
associated plumbing  and drainage company and others insofar as I hold the insurance  
company responsible for their actions.
In October  2018, Mrs R contacted British Gas for help with problems with her central heating 
system. British Gas said there was a hidden leak somewhere. Mrs R complained  about  
delay and being left without central heating and hot water.
After about two weeks, British Gas restored the central heating (except in the kitchen)  and 
the hot water. Mrs R complained that it disturbed her wooden flooring and she needs a 
carpenter to re- fit it at an estimated cost of £700.00.
British Gas suggested a re-run  of the pipes  for the kitchen radiator. But it didnt follow this 
up. So Mrs R paid someone else £350.00  to re-run the pipes. British Gas reimbursed that -
but declined to pay for the carpenter to refit the flooring.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought  that 
Mrs R wouldnt  have been covered for the floor to be replaced. But she thought that Mrs R 
was upset and concerned  with what had happened. The adjudicator  recommended that 
British Gas should pay Mrs R an additional  payment of £100.00 in recognition of the trouble 
and inconvenience  caused.
British Gas agreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
British Gas said that its equipment would detect the leak but it did not. Hence  the 
flooring had to be removed. British Gas was playing hit or miss. 
She was not given  any choice but to sign a declaration to say the engineer might 
cause damage.
The leak was found in the kitchen  under  a concrete floor. Uplifting of concrete 
flooring would require digging and removal of half her kitchen cupboard.  
British Gas damaged  her very expensive highly  polished  Bamboo flooring. It has 
become bouncy  with large gaps. It has to be replaced. 
The re-run of pipes  was done above ground  along skirting boards so required no 
lifting of any flooring.
Ref: DRN97615622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Subject to a limit of £1, 00.000 including VAT, the policy covered  access and making 
good defined as follows:
getting to your boiler, appliance  or system, to fix or service  it and then repairing any 
damage we may cause  in getting  access to your boiler, appliance or system by 
replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling  in 
holes we have  made  and leaving a level surface   but we wont replace or restore  the 
original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floorcoverings, decoration,  grass  or 
plants.
So the policy  covered making  access to a pipe by removing parts of a floor. And it covered 
repair of a leaking pipe and filling in the resultant  hole in the floor.  But it didnt cover restoring 
floor coverings such as tiles or other floor coverings.
For about two weeks  Mrs R was without central  heating. I find that some of that time was 
due to British  Gas delay in arranging  leak detection.  British Gas provided electric heaters but 
Mrs R was concerned about the cost of electricity  consumption.
On 15 October 2018 British Gas told Mrs R it needed to remove  wooden  flooring in the 
hallway and living room.  I havent seen enough  evidence to say that it was unreasonable  for 
British Gas to lift the flooring to trace the leak. It told Mrs R it might  cause  damage  and she 
signed a declaration and authority  to proceed. The declaration said British Gas would make  
good to a level surface. 
British Gas said the leak was under the solid floor in the kitchen. It fixed the central  heating  
except for the kitchen.  It suggested a re-run  of pipes above  floor level. I think this meant 
abandoning the pipes  under the kitchen floor.
British Gas put the flooring back  but not to the previous high standard. Im satisfied that it 
left a level surface in line with the policy terms and the signed declaration. 
On 26 October British Gas sent Mrs R £100.00  to cover the extra  electricity  cost for the 
electric heaters, and for poor service.
Yet for several weeks British Gas didnt contact Mrs R to arrange  the re run of pipes. So she 
arranged for someone  else to do the work on about 19 November for £350.00. British  Gas 
refunded her that amount  on about  5 February  2019. 
Ive found delay and poor service in early  October 2018. The effect  of this was that Mrs R 
was left for longer than reasonable with a cold house and having  to carry hot water upstairs.
But Ive found  that on 15 October  British Gas left a level surface  in line with the policy terms 
and the signed declaration. So I dont find it fair and reasonable  to direct British  Gas to pay 
for a carpenter to re-fit the flooring.
Ref: DRN97615623Ive found further  delay  and poor service  in late October and November. The effect of this 
was that Mrs R was left for longer than reasonable with no central heating  in the kitchen  
and she had to arrange her own heating  engineer.  She felt British Gas was ignoring her.
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to pay Mrs R  in addition to the 
amounts of £100.00  and £350.00 it has already paid her  a further £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R  in addition  to the amounts of £100.00 
and £350.00 it has already paid her  a further £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9761562