K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 on behalf of Mr M2 complains  about how TSB Bank  plc dealt with registration of a 
Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) on Mr M2s account.
background
Mr M1 holds  LPA for his brother Mr M2. Mr M1 and his partner made  attempts in October  
2018 to register  that LPA on his brothers TSB account. Mr M1 says there were a number of 
problems that resulted  in him taking  time off work  to attend a branch and problems getting 
internet banking access. In summary he says TSB paid him £100 for what took place but the 
problems continued  and the account  access was blocked. Mr M1 would  like compensation 
for what took place  and for the inconvenience  and distress he was caused. 
TSB accepts it made mistakes in dealing with Mr M1 and paid £100 compensation and that 
Mr M1 agreed that the complaint could be closed. It says it had concerns about a payment of 
£10,000 out of the account and blocked a second  payment attempt of £3,000. TSB says it 
placed restrictions on the account  and so Mr M1 needed to call its relevant department  to 
remove those account restrictions which he didnt do.
Mr M1 brought his complaint  to us and our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. The adjudicator 
thought it was up to TSB to decide  on its security policies and didnt think there  was any 
evidence Mr M1 had spoken  to TSB about the payments in order to remove  the restrictions.
Mr M1 didnt  accept that view and said he had spoken to TSB on a number of occasions but 
had been passed from different departments.
A second adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought TSBs actions were appropriate 
and that we couldnt normally award  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused to those bringing a complaint on behalf of someone else.
Mr M1 doesnt accept that view and says he should be entitled  to compensation due to 
TSBs actions and mistakes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr M1 will be disappointed  by my decision.
Im satisfied that the complainant here is Mr M2 and not Mr M1. I appreciate  that Mr M1 
holds a LPA for his brother and that hes entitled to act on his brother behalf.  But I think  this 
complaint is brought by Mr M1 on the basis of the inconvenience and distress he was 
caused. I can see that Mr M1 says he spent some time attending a TSB branch and then 
spent some time speaking  to different TSB departments. So Im satisfied in those 
circumstances that I cant  fairly  order TSB pay Mr M1 compensation as the customer here is 
Mr M2. If for example TSBs actions had a financial impact on Mr M2 then the position would 
be likely  to be different. But I make clear that I have not seen any evidence of any such 
financial impact on Mr M2.
I appreciate Mr M1s concern about  what  took place but I hope he understands the position 
we take on such  matters. I also make clear  to him that I dont think  TSB acted unfairly by 
placing restrictions on the account in circumstances where it had security concerns. I accept 
Ref: DRN96497882that Mr M1 held a LPA for his brother but I dont think that means that TSB is obliged  to 
follow instructions from Mr M1 where it holds such concerns.
Overall I dont think TSB acted unfairly  by restricting account access which I think  included  
internet access.  In any event I cant fairly  order  compensation even if I thought  TSB had 
acted unfairly or made a mistake as I dont think there was any financial or other  impact  on 
Mr M2.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 on behalf  of 
Mr M2 to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9649788