K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
August 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. I havent  received 
anything further  from either Sunny or Mrs W.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  me with anything  further  I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions that I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows  that I dont think  Sunny was 
wrong to give any of the loans to Mrs W.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Elevate Credit  International Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93313832EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs W was given three loans by Sunny. Her first loan was a running account  agreement  that she 
agreed to repay  in monthly instalments. She took two additional drawdowns under  that agreement 
whilst she was repaying  it, meaning the loan lasted for just over seven months.  Her last two loans, 
that were taken at the same  time she was repaying  the first loan, were  both due to be repaid  over six 
months, but were repaid  much earlier.  A summary of Mrs Ws borrowing from Sunny is shown below;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateCredit Limit / 
Loan Amount  
1 20/08/2014 02/04/2015 £   750
2 30/01/2015 02/04/2015 £   150
3 25/03/2015 02/04/2015 £   200
Mrs Ws complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think  that Sunny should  
have given any of the loans to Mrs W. So he asked Sunny to pay Mrs W some compensation. Sunny 
didnt agree  with that assessment. So as the complaint hasnt  been resolved informally it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mrs W could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN93313833Ive considered the maximum  repayment that Mrs W needed to make under the running credit 
agreement that formed loan 1. That maximum repayment increased slightly when  Mrs W took some  
additional borrowing in October 2014. But it then reduced a little when she took some further 
borrowing in December 2014. So the repayment, on which Ive based my assessment, is the 
repayment Mrs W needed to make after her borrowing  in October  2014.  And Mrs W took loans 2 and 
3 at the same time as she was repaying her earlier  borrowing. By loan 3 she was making  repayments 
on three loans at the same  time. So Ive considered  the total amounts that Mrs W needed to repay to 
Sunny each month when looking at whether it was reasonable  for her to be given these loans.
I think  Sunny should have been  concerned  that Mrs W needed to take two additional  loans whilst she 
was still repaying  loan 1. That might have been a sign that her finances were under  some pressure. 
But against  that Mrs W didnt appear to have any difficulties making her repayments when  they were  
due. And the amounts she needed to pay each month appeared to be affordable for her.
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time,  and 
her borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think  it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first two loans.  So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give these loans to Mrs W.
I do think, by the time Mrs W asked for the third loan, that Sunny should  have gathered some more 
detailed information  from her. Although I still think it was reasonable for Sunny  to base its affordability 
assessment on information  that Mrs W provided, I think  it should have asked her some very specific 
questions about any other short term loans  that she was already committed to repaying.
Ive looked carefully at the information Mrs W has provided us with to see what better checks would 
have shown Sunny at that time.  But having done  so I dont  think those checks would have led Sunny 
to conclude that Mrs W was having serious  problems managing her money  and so led it to decide  it 
shouldnt lend to her at that time. So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give loan 3 to Mrs W either.
I appreciate that Mrs Ws finances  were  under some pressure at that time. But I think  it was 
reasonable for Sunny to rely on what Mrs W said about her income and expenditure. And I dont think 
that, even  when it should  have done better checks at the time of loan 3, Sunny would have 
discovered the extent of Mrs Ws financial  problems. There wasnt anything in the information  Mrs W 
provided or the information  Sunny shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what she was saying.   So I dont think Sunny  was wrong to give any of 
these loans to Mrs W.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9331383