K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs R took out with a store card in August  2001. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs R mainly said that if the policy had been  discussed with her, she wouldve declined  it as 
she didnt need  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs R to remember exactly  what  was discussed  when she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough  on its own for me to be 
able to uphold  this complaint just based on the way Mrs R told us she was sold PPI. I have 
to look at everything and decide what I think is most  likely.
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Rs completed store  card application. Mrs R has signed in 
the PPI part of the form to indicate  that she wanted to have PPI added  on to her account. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs R wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign. So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs R to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs R signed the completed application  so it seems to me that she must have agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  she has forgotten this now.  On 
balance, I find that Mrs R was aware  the policy was optional and she chose to take it out.
Even though  no PPI recommendation was made  by FICL it still needed to make sure it gave  
Mrs R enough clear  information to decide if the policy was right for her.
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs R wouldve acted differently,  and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ref: DRN96046702This policy couldve paid a benefit  for as long as Mrs R was off work  sick or if Mrs R lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. It doesnt  look like she had significant other means  
she couldve  relied on for very long if she wasnt working. Her sick pay went  down to half pay 
only after 3 months  off work - and it stopped altogether after 6 months. I dont know if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make  a claim. Relying on family to 
help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. So I think Mrs R couldve benefitted  from having  
PPI.
It doesnt look as if Mrs R was affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont 
think more information  about the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Rs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs R clear enough information about  the costs  of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs R chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. Ive seen  nothing to suggest that paying  for the PPI was a 
problem for Mrs R when she took out the policy. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs R, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9604670