K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) is proposing  to settle  
her home insurance claim in respect  of her flooring. She thinks its unfair that RSA has 
offered to settle  the claim  based on the cheapest estimate for the works.
background
Ms P previously  complained to our service about how RSA had handled  her home  insurance  
claim. An ombudsman  made a final decision on that complaint and required RSA to pay 50% 
of the cost to it of replacing Ms Ps flooring damaged by water.
Following this, RSA said to Ms P it would be appointing its supplier to provide a quote for the 
flooring. Ms P said she was unhappy  with the supplier RSA wanted to use as it had poor 
reviews. Ms P asked  if RSA could use her preferred supplier instead,  but it said it couldnt 
because it didnt have  a relationship with it. RSA said the policy document  explains that it 
can use its own suppliers when calculating  the cost of works.
Ms P said shed provide three quotes  so she could  see if RSAs supplier had underestimated 
the cost of the works. She said RSA could then provide a cash settlement based on the 
average cost of the three quotes.  RSA said Ms P could provide the three quotes and it would 
refer them  to its supplier  for guidance on settlement.
RSA subsequently based its settlement figure on the cheapest  estimate. Ms P thinks  this is 
unfair. She said RSA hadnt disputed using the average of three quotes so she expected it to 
use this calculation. 
Ms P brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  at it but didnt think RSA 
had acted unfairly. She said RSA hadnt  guaranteed  that it would make  a settlement based 
on the average of the three  quotes,  so she didnt think it had misled Ms P. 
Ms P remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms P is unhappy RSA based its settlement on the lowest quote for the flooring works,  rather  
than by taking  an average of the three quotes shed supplied it with. 
Ive looked at the emails between Ms P and RSA to see what  was said.  I can see that it was 
Ms Ps suggestion to use the average  cost of her three quotes,  but Ive not seen anything  to 
show RSA agreed to this. 
RSA told Ms P she could  supply the quotes and it would refer them to its supplier for 
guidance. I dont  think its reasonable to infer from this that RSA was going to calculate  the 
settlement based  on the average cost of the quotes.  Nor do I think its fair to assume that 
because RSA hadnt explicitly refuted Ms Ps suggestion that it had therefore, agreed  to it. 
Ref: DRN96165152Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of the policy and it says:
The amount we will pay where repair or replacement is not carried  out will not 
exceed the lesser  of:
The decrease in market value of your buildings due to the damage,
The cost of the work had it been  completed  by our nominated contractor if the 
repair work had been  carried  out without delay, 
The cost of the work based upon  the most completive estimate  or tender from 
your nominated contractors if the repair work  had been carried  out without 
delay.
The policy makes it clear  that RSA can choose  between paying the cost of the works  if they 
were carried  out by its supplier, or the cheapest estimate provided  by Ms P based  on 
whichever is less. RSA has chosen  to calculate its settlement using Ms Ps most competitive 
quote, and Im satisfied   its entitled to do so under the policy.  So I cant  say RSA has acted 
unfairly by not basing its settlement on the average  cost of Ms Ps three estimates as it 
hadnt agreed to this, and its not something its required to do under the policy.
I know Ms P will be disappointed by my decision but I hope she understands my reasons for 
not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9616515