K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009 
alongside a loan. Mrs O says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs O says she didnt know the PPI was added to her loan account.  But based on the 
information Ive seen I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I 
say this having seen a copy of her loan agreement which  included  a separate  section  for 
PPI. In this there is a tick in the box to agree to the policy. Mrs O has also signed  in this box 
separately to her signature to agree to the cover. So I think  this reflected what  she wanted at 
the time.   
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs O so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs O says she had a life cover policy at the time,  so she didnt need the PPI. But the life 
cover wouldve covered her for different things than the PPI cover in the main.  Ive also seen  
that Mrs O didnt have  any sick pay or savings  she couldve relied on. The PPI wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months for an unemployment  claim and until the end of the loan term for an 
accident or sickness claim. So I still think the PPI was suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O. But Lloyds 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN97331772Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs O any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mrs O the extra she paid each month  because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mrs O 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs O can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs O.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9733177