K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about end of contract charges when her agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited ended.
background
In 2015 Ms B was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with VWFS. She 
voluntary terminated  the agreement in November 2018.
Following inspection and collection of the car, VWFS asked Ms B to pay charges for 
damage.
Ms B disputed the damage and said it was within fair wear and tear. In its final response, 
VWFS said the damage was beyond acceptable wear and tear. Ms B wasnt  happy with the 
response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He agreed with VWFS  that the damage went 
beyond acceptable  wear and tear.
Ms B didnt agree. She said she hadnt been given the opportunity  to refurbish the wheels, 
which she says she couldve done at less cost that that charged by VWFS. She also said 
VWFS had applied the charges without her agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Ms B must  return the car in good  
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these are accepted  as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage  exceeds fair wear and tear. 
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies  damage to the 
bumper, the left hand front door, the right hand rear door, the right hand wing and three  of 
the wheels. Most of these charges have already been removed by VWFS  save  for charges 
for damage  to the wheels.
Looking at the inspection report and the photos,  and taking into account the relevant 
guidelines, Im satisfied that the damage to the wheels goes beyond acceptable wear  and 
tear because the scratches exceed  50mm. I think the charges have been applied  fairly by 
VWFS.
Miss B has said that she wasnt given  the opportunity to refurbish the wheels and that she 
couldve had the work  done cheaper. As Ive already said, the terms and conditions  of the 
finance agreement  say that Ms B must return the car in good condition. Ms B would have 
been aware of these  terms and conditions from the start of the agreement.  So I think Ms B 
had sufficient time to refurbish the wheels before she terminated  the agreement. 
Ref: DRN96087222Once an agreement  has been voluntary terminated and the car has been collected,  I 
wouldnt expect a finance company to return it to the consumer for repairs.
Ms B hasnt provided any evidence that the damage  charges are excessive. Based on what  
Ive seen, Im unable to say that VWFs has charged  an unfair  amount.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im unable to say that VWFS  has acted unfairly in applying the 
charges. I wont be asking it to remove them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9608722