K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) mis sold him a 
finance agreement. He would like to keep the car without having  to pay the end of contract  
balloon payment or any charges for additional  miles or damage
background
Mr A says he took out a finance agreement  with MBFS  in January 2015 for a new vehicle. 
He says he has always taken out Hire Purchase Agreements.  And as the agreement  he 
signed in 2015 was headed Hire Purchase  Agreement he believed that is what  he agreed 
to. He says he expected  at the end of the contract term  January 2019  to own the car.
However he says he realised as the contract term was ending  that he had actually taken  out 
a Personal Contract  Plan (PCP). He says he had no idea there  would be a balloon payment  
to make at the end of the contract to keep  the vehicle. And also that he wasnt aware of 
potential payments for damage or additional miles.
He says he cant afford the balloon payment nor can he afford, if he gives the car back, 
charges for additional miles and any damage.
MBFS said the terms of the contract were clearly  laid out so it felt Mr A had been  adequately 
informed about  the Agreement which he had signed.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found no evidenced of misrepresentation. 
The terms of the contract  were clearly laid out with regard  to the balloon payment, additional 
mileage and damage.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr A didnt. He arranged at this point to be represented by a 
Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC  said Mr A wished to have an 
Ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A feels  strongly about this and I do understand that. So I realise he is going  to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
I am aware  that after our investigator  issued her view that Mr A then chose to be 
represented by a CMC with effect  from April 2019. Prior to writing  this final decision we have 
tried to contact the CMC  to see if it has any specific points it wished to raise on Mr As behalf   
We were unable to contact the CMC by telephone and so emailed on 13 March  2020 asking 
for any comments to be provided  by 20 March 2020. As we have had no response back I 
can only go on the information that has been  provided to date.
Mr A says when he took out his agreement the sales person told him the agreement was a 
Hire Purchase Agreement.  And he says no mention was made of a final payment or the 
potential for additional mileage and damage  charges.
Its very difficult  when consumers or businesses rely on conversations that havent been  
recorded. I can appreciate  if Mr A had, as he says he has , always taken out Hire Purchase  
Ref: DRN93069152Agreements, and the agreement he signed  here was titled Hire Purchase Agreement that 
he might  reasonably have  thought that was what he was agreeing to.
I think it would have  been clearer if the agreement  had been titled  Personal Contract Plan  
(PCP). But PCPs are a type of Hire Purchase Agreement  so I dont think the contract was 
wrongly titled.
Its also not very satisfactory that it seems  Mr A never got a copy of the full contract. 
However there doesnt seem to be any dispute  that Mr A did get the first three pages of the 
contract he signed. And those are the most  important ones since they cover  the key terms of 
the contract.
Ive looked carefully  at these pages. The first page  covers the breakdown  of payments  which  
is clearly laid out. As Mr As 48 monthly payments added up to £13,410.72 but the total 
amount payable was significantly higher at over £26,000 I think he should  have realised that 
there would be an outstanding  amount to be paid
However its also clearly stated on that first page that if Mr A wished to buy the car at the end 
of the hire period there would be an optional purchase payment of £12,725 due 47 months 
after the first payment.  
Whilst Mr A might  not have  read in detail,  or taken on board all the terms of the contract I 
think these key points  were sufficiently clear  for Mr A to understand the agreement  he was 
signing.
In terms of potential  charges for charges for additional miles and damage  these  details are 
also covered in the contract pages  that Mr A got.
Charges for additional miles if Mr A didnt  buy the car are laid out on the first page of the 
contact. 
Page 3 of the contract states the car needs to be maintained in a condition  consistent with 
the Vehicle Returns Standard. Although  that doesnt  actually state  charges for any damage 
will be made I think the implication is obvious.
Mr A may not have read, even though  he should  have, the later pages of the contract so 
may have  missed the detail over damage. But he has told us he has had finance 
agreements for car hire before. 
Its fairly  standard  to charge for damage  when cars are returned. So I think  he could 
reasonably have expected that this would be the case even if he hadnt  specifically  noticed  
this in the contract he signed.
On the basis that I havent found any evidence that MBFS misrepresented  the agreement to 
Mr A I cant reasonably expect it to take any action in relation to this.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Ref: DRN93069153Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9306915