K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her income protection policy.  She says 
Lloyds should  have done more to recommend she increased her retirement age on the 
policy, and now wants it to refund her premiums or pay 12 months  worth  of benefit.
Background
Mrs B took out an income protection policy in 2000. The policy  was sold by Lloyds, and was 
designed to provide a monthly  benefit  in the event of Mrs B being unable to work because of 
an accident or ill health.
Unfortunately, Mrs B became unwell in the beginning  of 2016 and subsequently found 
herself unable  to work. She contacted her policy provider in February 2016, and was told 
that if her claim was successful shed  receive a monthly benefit of 60% of her income. The 
provider told Mrs B that the payments  would  come into effect after a three month deferred 
period, so shed  be eligible for one months  payment   because  her policy  was expiring in 
May 2016 when  she turned 60. 
Mrs B said she that she didnt know that her policy was due to expire  and complained to 
Lloyds about the sale of it. She said shed told the bank that shed wanted the policy  to run 
until the end of her mortgage (which was due to run until 2018), or until shed retired (which 
hadnt been at 60). She also said the bank should have done more  during the sale to tell her 
about the future changes that were  going  to be made to the state pension age for women  
where pension  ages  were due to be equalised. 
Lloyds looked  into Mrs Bs concerns but was satisfied  the policy hadnt been mis-sold.  
Mrs B repeated her concerns about the retirement  age that had been registered  on the 
policy and said the bank should have  done more to tell her about  the equalisation of state  
pension. She said that she hadnt known when her policy would be expiring, and was never  
given the opportunity to extend it. She also said that she was unaware it would only provide 
60% of her monthly income, and was unaware  shed  only receive  payments  up until it 
expired.
One of our investigators  looked at what happened but didnt think  the policy had been  mis-
sold. She said that Mrs B was self-employed at the time of the sale and it would have been 
up to her to decide when  she had wanted  to retire.  They also said that the policy was a 
stand-alone one, meaning it wasnt able to be extended, and Mrs B would have needed  to 
apply for another policy if shed wanted further cover.  Our investigator said it appeared that 
Lloyds had got the end date for her mortgage wrong  but, on balance, didnt think Mrs B 
would have done anything differently if the bank  had got it right.  And they also said the 
expiry date and various policy terms were  set out in the relevant policy  documentation,  so it 
was unreasonable of Mrs B to say that she was unaware of them. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to decide the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I realise that Mrs B is very unhappy about  what has happened, and I appreciate  that 
realising her cover was due to shortly expire at the point of making  a claim must have been 
distressing for her. 
Ref: DRN94423192Mrs Bs policy was sold by Lloyds 19 years ago. It was an advised sale, which  meant Lloyds 
needed to ensure the policy it sold her was suitable for her circumstances and needs  at the 
time. 
Mrs Bs policy expired in May 2016  when she turned 60. This was because, at the time of 
taking out the policy,  her intended age of retirement had been recorded as 60. Mrs B has 
said that Lloyds  shouldve done more  to make her aware of the change that was coming  to 
the state pension age for women  (which eventually saw the retirement  age for women rise to 
65) and recommend  that she set her retirement date higher in view of that.
Our investigator explained that she didnt think it would have been right or appropriate for 
Lloyds to recommend  Mrs B increase her retirement  age, because  she was self-employed at 
the time of the sale and was in a position to choose  her own age of retirement.  Having 
reviewed the case, I agree with the investigator  on this point, and for the same  reasons. 
Looking at the recommendations Lloyds made, Mrs B was only able to commit a certain 
amount of money  each month towards  the policy. So had Lloyds recommended Mrs B 
increase her retirement  age on the policy, I think its likely  this wouldve increased the policy  
cost to a figure higher than that which Mrs B had suggested she could afford. 
I can also see Mrs B made changes to the terms of the policy  after Lloyds made  its 
recommendation, which included altering the benefit amount and deferred period of the 
policy. So I think at this point, had Mrs B not intended to retire at 60 its likely  she would 
have made  changes to her retirement  date at the same time.
Mrs B has said that as well as covering her until retirement, she wanted the policy  to cover  
her until the end of her mortgage. Lloyds recorded  that date as 2014, but based on the 
evidence Mrs B has produced to this service, Im satisfied her mortgage  wasnt  due to end 
until 2018. So its unlikely  that Lloyds would have  known  the policy was due to expire two 
years before the end of Mrs Bs mortgage.
But as I doubt  that conversation took place between Mrs B and Lloyds at the time, Ive 
considered all the available evidence, and made  a finding on the balance of probabilities  as 
to what I think would have  most  likely happened at the point of sale had it taken  place. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mrs B wouldve extended  her policy  for a further two 
years.
Mrs B could not have  retired at 60 (which Im satisfied shed intended  to do at the time of the 
sale) and still have  the policy run until the end of her mortgage  because  there  would have 
been no income to protect at that point. Had Mrs B wanted to cover  herself  until the end of 
her mortgage, she would have needed  to say that she intended  to work for another  two 
years. And for the reasons  given above,  Im not persuaded that she did intend to at the time.
Mrs B has also said that she wasnt made  aware  of different aspects of the policy   namely 
its expiry date, the 60% benefit, and the provision that payments would only be made up 
until the policy expired.  
In relation to the expiry date, the Summary and Recommendations letter  prepared  by 
Lloyds and signed by Mrs B said:
An Income Protection  Plan for a monthly  contribution of £126.01 increasing annually  written 
until your 60th Birthday  could meet your needs  Mrs B. This will provide  a monthly income  of 
£1207.00 in the event  of sickness or disability at any time throughout the term of the plan. 
Ref: DRN94423193[] This would mean that you would be able to benefit from maximum allowable  income in 
the event of long term illness or disability before retirement age of 60.
Furthermore, the actual  expiry date was also set out in the policy  schedule.   So Im satisfied, 
on balance, that Lloyds did enough to Make Mrs B aware of when her policy  was due to 
finish. 
In relation to the benefit amount and payment period, the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs 
policy said:
The Income Benefit  payable for each Benefit Period will be limited. This is to ensure that the 
total of all benefits payable from the sources  specified in Rule 2.7(d),  will not exceed:
60% of Pre-incapacity  Income, up to Our limit which  is currently  equal to £4166 per 
month
They also said:
The Benefit Period  is any continuous  period of Incapacity beginning after the Date  of 
Commencement and after the expiry  of the Deferred  Period. The Benefit Period will end on 
the Benefit Termination Date which will occur on the earliest of the following:
the date on which the Incapacity  ceases or in the case of Proportionate Benefit (Rule 
2.8) or Rehabilitation Benefit (Rule  2.9), the date on which  payment of the Income 
Benefit ceases
the Expiry Date, or
the date of the death of the Life Assured. 
So Im satisfied that the level of benefit was also set out clearly to Mrs B at the point of sale.
I understand that Mrs B wanted the opportunity to extend her cover, but the policy she took 
out was a stand-alone one. That meant she would have needed to explore what other  
products were available  at the time and suitable  for her if she wanted  separate  cover to 
insure that period.
I appreciate that my decision is likely  to come as further disappointment for Mrs B, but on 
balance, Im satisfied that the documentation available from the time of the sale, including 
the policy terms and conditions, set out those aspects of the policy  that Mrs B says she was 
unaware of. 
So for these reasons, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9442319