K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a loan he invested in through Crowdcube Capital Limiteds platform.  
The company he invested in became insolvent and caused him a financial loss. He 
complains that important information was omitted from the pitch  which wouldve dissuaded  
him from investing. 
background
In 2018 a company Ill refer to as Company A submitted a pitch  to Crowdcube which  sought  
further investors. Company A was a company specialising in cloud-based recruitment 
software and its pitch outlined various high profile corporate clients  it had already  secured. 
Before approving the pitch  for promotion on its website,  Crowdcube carried out some due 
diligence to ensure the pitch was fair, clear and not misleading. This involved carrying  out a 
number of checks in line with its due diligence charter. Before closing the investment (and 
during the cooling off period), Crowdcube  also asked Company A to complete a legal review 
document which asked  several questions, including does  the company have any 
outstanding debts. In answer to this, Company A detailed  one loan which had 31 payments 
remaining, but didnt  specify any other  debts or arrears. The document  also asked Company 
A whether the company was involved in or being  threatened  with litigation  to which 
Company A replied  it was not. 
Mr S invested £4,000  in Company A and the shares  were issued in May 2018   but in March  
2019 Mr S was contacted by Company As insolvency practitioner who confirmed  that 
Company A was insolvent. It appeared the insolvency had been brought  about  by a winding 
up petition issued  by HMRC for tax arrears.  It transpired that these arrears had been building 
since around February 2017  when Company As managing  director suffered an accident 
which led to filings and payments to HMRC  being  delayed. By the time Company A was 
wound up, it owed HMRC  more than £249,000. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint, but didnt think  Crowdcube  had done 
anything wrong. In short:
The terms and conditions  of Crowdcubes service  clearly  said that investors  made their 
own decisions to invest, and Crowdcube  didnt  provide any recommendations or advice. 
He acknowledged the pitch  didnt  contain  any details about Company As financials or 
any arrears with HMRC. 
He acknowledged that Company A ought  to have disclosed information about its arrears  
with HMRC  to Crowdcube  but he also acknowledged  that Crowdcube was entitled to 
rely on the information it was provided in good  faith. 
He considered that the legal  due diligence document  which  Crowdcube required 
Company A to fill out prior to approving the pitch specifically asked Company A to 
disclose any outstanding debts and any active or threatened litigation. Company A didnt 
mention debts with HMRC  nor the fact that non-payment  of these would likely result in 
HMRC taking  action. 
Ref: DRN99898832In any event,  the investigator didnt consider that this information wouldve  been readily 
available to Crowdcube without Company A disclosing  it. The third party tools which 
Crowdcube wouldve  used, including website such  as Companies  House, didnt  contain  
this information.  
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. In summary:
He considered the acceptance by the investigator that there were material  issues [] 
which shouldve  have  been disclosed in the pitch,  but were not was effective 
confirmation that the promotion was misleading. He therefore considered that this was 
a case of mis-selling. 
He considered that it wasnt fair that while both Crowdcube and investors were misled 
by Company A, only investors suffered  because Crowdcube still made a profit from 
promoting the pitch on its platform.  
Mr S said that not upholding this complaint would send a clear message that companies 
may deliberately provide Crowdcube  with false response  to due-diligence enquiries 
seemingly without  consequence to either themselves  or Crowdcube  in order  to appear 
as a more attractive investment proposition. Mr S said that this would basically make 
Crowdcubes due-diligence process  pointless. 
Mr S reiterated that in his view, it was wrong  for Crowdcube to have profited from 
promoting an investment  which  shouldnt have  taken place.  He said that Company As 
failure to provide  Crowdcube with honest  and complete  answers to its due diligence  
questions was a form of false misrepresentation  yet Crowdcubes website doesnt say 
that investors are at risk of losing  their investment as a result  of fraudulent promotion.
Ultimately, he said that having been misled into investing, by a pitch  that was promoted 
by an FCA regulated firm, it wasnt fair that the supposed protections  afforded  by FCA 
regulation turned  out to be worthless.  
Before passing  the case to me for a decision, Mr S made further representations:
The facts  of the case, including  the acknowledgement by the investigator that Company 
A failed to disclose  information which both Crowdcube  and the service agree ought  to 
have been disclosed,  meant that he was misled into investing in it. It was clearly unfair 
that Crowdcube still profited from the investment, but investors  lost all their investment. 
Investing in Company  A, given  the issues with HMRC which  werent disclosed, carried 
far greater risk than he and other  investors were led to believe. 
Nowhere on Crowdcubes website did its risk warnings clarify that whilst Crowdcube 
carried out due diligence, it was heavily reliant on the accuracy and completeness  of 
the information provided  by the firms seeking  investors. 
The warnings  also didnt clarify  that not all the information provided or omitted by firms  
could be verified, that this could in turn lead to promotions which  were exaggerated   
and that despite  being authorised and regulated  by the FCA, Crowdcube  [] has 
exemption from all responsibility for any inaccurate, incomplete or omitted information 
provided within its financial  promotions.  
Ref: DRN99898833First provisional  decision
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020. In brief, I said:
Crowdcube committed, through its due diligence charter, to carrying  out a certain level of 
due diligence on claims in pitches by companies seeking to raise  funds on its platform. 
I wasnt satisfied that accepting at face value Company As assertions that it had no 
outstanding debts discharged its obligations to treat its customers  fairly. 
Whilst I accepted that Company As pitch itself contained no claims about its tax 
situation, I considered  the legal review document important  enough that there  ought  to 
have been a minimum amount of due diligence carried out by Crowdcube on it  in 
relation to whether Company A had any outstanding debts there was none.  
I considered that eliciting information about Company As tax status, such as by asking 
for its tax returns or evidence that it was paid up with HMRC,  was a basic requirement 
that Crowdcube ought to have fulfilled. 
I concluded  on balance that had it asked for this information before closing the 
investment round,  it wouldve  been apparent that Company  A had arrears. As such this 
information wouldve  been able to be shared with investors during the cooling off period, 
and wouldve been material information  that investors  wouldve  been  entitled to have. 
I concluded  that on balance, Mr S wouldnt have agreed to invest had he known about 
Company As tax position. 
Crowdcube didnt  agree with my provisional  decision. It made a number of comments in 
response. 
It said that the provisional decision  showed  there was a lack of understanding about how 
due diligence  works in general, and confusion about Crowdcubes Due Diligence  process.  It 
said that in any such process, the checking  of positive  facts or assertions about the 
company would be relatively straightforward, on the basis that supporting evidence could be 
insisted on. In contrast, negative assurances  that no harmful  matters  applied were more  
difficult to ascertain. 
It took issue with my conclusion that the checking  of tax filings was a basic  check. It said 
that in order to have done  this, it wouldve needed  to have satisfied  itself that Company A 
hadnt provided incorrect disclosures in relation to the two particular warranties that applied  
here  namely  that the company had no outstanding  debts, and that the company wasnt 
being threated with or in the middle of any litigation.  
It said that in order  to verify the answer to the question  of whether Company A had any 
outstanding debts, it would need to carry out a full financial review of management accounts 
going back to the last audited accounts. It said that it was very possible that even had it 
done this amount of work, it might not have  uncovered the tax arrears  particularly if the 
company had failed  to make a provision in its management accounts about this. 
It said that Crowdcube would then have had to check all supplier contract terms, request 
sight of all invoices received and reconcile those  against cash payments  from the 
Companys bank account. 
Ref: DRN99898834It said that in terms of threatened or pending litigation, this task wouldve been even more 
difficult to achieve.  
It said that even if it had checked  tax returns,  and managed to uncover the arrears  it could 
still have been  possible for other information  about  Company A to have some other 
threatened litigation or debt which hadnt been uncovered. Crowdcube said that when 
carrying out due diligence, Crowdcube couldnt know in advance what  it was going  to find. 
As a result, it was necessary to draw  some parameters around the due diligence exercise 
and seek contractual  protections.  It said that this was an entirely  normal  allocation of risk 
and liability  in a due diligence exercise. And it said that this is what Crowdcube did in setting 
up its Due Diligence Charter  and it said it followed it in this case. 
Crowdcube also said that the provisional decision had only briefly  and superficially referred  
to the investor  terms and conditions  which it said Mr S had accepted and which  regulated 
the investment.  It said the decision had focused predominantly on the Due Diligence charter  
 but even then,  the charter made  clear  that Crowdcube relied on information  provided by 
companies looking to crowdfund. And so Crowdcube concluded that Mr S was aware that in 
some cases,  Crowdcube would be reliant  on information or answers provided by these 
companies being honest and true. 
It said that whilst Crowdcube  did conduct  reasonable  Due Diligence, it was clear  with 
investors that this didnt  eradicate all risk of companies providing  false information.  
It disagreed with Mr Ss assertions that he wasnt aware that companies may provide  false  or 
fraudulent information  to Crowdcube, and that he would be exposed this risk as a result. 
Finally, Crowdcube said that the provisional decision oversimplified and misunderstood 
Crowdcubes responsibilities in relation to the warranties which Company A provided to it. It 
said that at the point  at which the seven day cooling off period had expired, the warranties 
made by Company A became binding between the investor and the company. It said that it 
was entirely unreasonable to hold Crowdcube liable for Company As breach  of warranty in 
circumstances where  the legal  review showed a contractual  relationship  existed by the 
company and the investor. It said that the provisional decision had glossed over this, and as 
a result misunderstood this contractual relationship. 
It took issue with my statement that the legal review  document  was key and that it provided a 
final opportunity to ensure Company A was a viable investment proposition.  Crowdcube said 
that the purpose of this document and cooling off period was to provide a legally binding  
contact between investors and companies, of which the warranties contained  in the legal  
review document  were  a part. It said it was concerned by the provisional decisions use of the 
words viable investment  proposition because Crowdcube was clear in its terms that it never 
declared any company  a viable investment proposition, and didnt make any recommendations 
about whether  investments were suitable or the quality of such investments. 
Mr S agreed with the provisional decision,  but had comments to make in response to 
Crowdcubes assertions  above. He said:
Crowdcube was regulated by the FCA and as such, the rules  the regulator set for it 
superseded its terms and conditions.  
Crowdcube didnt deny that investors were  misled  by the omission  of crucial information 
within the pitch, even though it attempt  to deny all responsibility. 
Ref: DRN99898835Crowdcube received  a fee for the funds which Company A raised, and it was 
responsible for running and approving the promotion. 
Mr S said that he decided to invest  based  on the this promotion as a whole, and under the 
regulators rules,  this needed to be fair, clear and misleading   which he argued  it was not. 
It wasnt fair that investors had to bear losses arising from the fact that the promotional  
material wasnt fair, clear and misleading. 
He considered that the statement that Crowdcube was reliant on the accuracy of the 
information provided by companies  made  the entire due diligence  process  worthless. 
He thought Crowdcube was essentially admitting that there might be information  within  
the promotional  pitches which could be inaccurate, incomplete or a forgery, and this 
would be a clear  breach of FCA rules. 
Crowdcube was remunerated for each  successful fundraise  and he thought  it 
therefore made  little difference  to it whether the company  eventually became  successful  
or not. Mr S said that its business  model  incentivises  Crowdcube to achieve as many  
successfully completed  fundraises as possible.  
If the decision  in this case was to not uphold the complaint, it would encourage far 
lighter-touch due diligence  in future. He said that it would encourage Crowdcube to be 
selective in the due diligence it carried out on any aspects  of any promotion  it approved.  
There were analogous cases in the past that showed that it wasnt  fair in situations like 
this, where information was available at the time the investment was arranged which 
significantly undermined the investment, to pass the blame  on to an insolvent  and 
unregulated third party.
Second provisional decision
I reconsidered all the evidence in light of the comments I received from both parties.  Having 
done so, I issued a second provisional  decision explaining that I now considered the case 
should not be upheld. In it I said:
Im issuing this second provisional decision because I found this case to be finely balanced.  
The reason  for this is that I do think its likely the issues which ultimately led to Company  As 
subsequent demise  were  already extant  at the time Mr S invested.  That seems to be 
supported by the liquidators comments in relation to the build up of HMRC arrears. And I 
sympathise with Mr Ss situation  he feels that he would never have invested but for 
Crowdcubes involvement, and whilst it was remunerated  for this, he is now out of pocket. 
In response to Crowdcubes submissions,  Id like to reassure it that Ive not misunderstood, 
misinterpreted or glossed over its due diligence process, or the various disclaimers it has in 
its terms and conditions.  However, whilst Crowdcube understandably,  from a commercial  
perspective, seeks to limit its liability in respect of warranties which companies provide to it, 
or in respect of the promotions it approves on its platform, my role is consider all the relevant 
circumstances of each  complaint.  
Ref: DRN99898836That includes, of course, Crowdcubes terms and conditions  but also the regulators high 
level principles, as well as the various  policy  documents and statements it has made over 
the years  about  this type of activity.  And, fundamentally, I need to carefully consider the 
steps Crowdcube has taken to ensure  that its customers arent exposed to avoidable  or 
unnecessary harm. 
Having said all of that, and whilst I sympathise  with Mr S, its important in reaching my 
conclusions that I am fair to both parties.  In this case, the question of HMRC arrears  in 
relation to Company A isnt straightforward, even if some tax wasnt being paid on time 
during the period in question. 
The key issue for me is that whilst I accept what Crowdcube has said about  the warranties 
which Company A provided, and which it considers wouldve been enforceable by Mr S 
against it  its clear to me that in the vast majority  of cases, enforcing such warranties 
simply isnt going to be a practical or cost effective way forward for most investors. I dont 
agree that simply facilitating such a document means Crowdcube has entirely abrogated its 
responsibility to take reasonable  steps to verify the warranties provided. I say this because  
Crowdcube plays a key and crucial  part in approving  the promotion and, subsequently, in 
arranging the investment.  It is a firm regulated  by the FCA and as such, carries with it a 
responsibility to take all reasonable steps to ensure it acts in the interests of its customers. 
And its for this reason  that I initially considered that Crowdcube ought to have done more to 
ensure those warranties  werent just, for all intents  and purposes,  unenforceable promises   
but were actually, to a certain degree, promises that were based  on information which an 
investor could reasonably  conclude was accurate. 
So in light of Crowdcubes comments in response to my provisional  decision, Ive carefully 
revisited the two statements of account  for Company A again. In reviewing  this evidence, Im 
no longer persuaded that it wouldve been  possible for it to uncover the situation which the 
liquidator subsequently referred to  even  if it had carried out additional checks.  
I say this because  I can see that Company As accounts for the period ending  31 May 2018 
werent published on Companies  House  until November  2018, which  was many months after 
Mr S invested. These accounts do indicate a liability of around £186,000 in taxation and 
social security  amounts falling due  the previous year that amount was just under £59,000. 
But they werent available to Crowdcube at the time it asked Company A to complete the 
legal review document  and so even  if I thought  it ought to have done  more to verify the 
warranties Company A was providing in relation  to debts and litigation,  I accept that there 
isnt anything specific it couldve  asked  for.
In addition to this, despite these accounts showing such a large taxation and social  security  
liability, Company  A was still listed as a going  concern. In other words, there was no 
suggestion that the company was at risk of being  wound up or having  insufficient money to 
satisfy its legal obligations, including the settlement  of these tax and social  security  liabilities.  
I would also add that the fact that it took until January 2019 for HMRC  to issue  a winding up 
petition against Company A indicates to me, on reflection, that theres little which Crowdcube 
or indeed  Mr S couldve known or uncovered about  the situation in May 2018.
Ref: DRN99898837Crowdcube had no comments to make. Mr S didnt agree with my second provisional  
decision. In summary:
He said my provisional decision, if confirmed as final, would have the effect of 
encouraging continued  practices from providers which  have been shown to not be in 
consumers best interests.  
He considered my comment  that the case was finely balanced  to mean  that the eventual 
binding decision would be a crucial  one. 
He also thought that my conclusion that the tax issues were  extant  at the time of the 
Company As crowdfunding was precisely the point he was making. He considered that 
under FCA rules investors  shouldve been  made aware,  and it was no excuse for 
Crowdcube that it wasnt aware.  
He said that this would  make FCA regulation completely pointless  and he considered 
the decision  would encourage minimal  due diligence in future.  
He said investors were  entitled  to know all the facts in order  to properly evaluate a 
promoted investment risk. He considered that in cases such  as this, Crowdcube must be 
made to accept responsibility  for any confirmed omission of crucial information in their 
promotions, no matter  what the reason for the omission  was. He said as an FCA regulated 
entity it was required  to comply with all the relevant  rules  on financial promotions. 
He asked what  was the point  in Crowdcube obtaining statements pitching companys 
directors, if when they turned  out to be false nothing whatsoever is done about it. 
He said it wasnt in dispute that Crowdcube  promoted a pitch for this investment which 
didnt contain  any information about  the actual negative  financial position  of the 
company at that time.  
It also wasnt in dispute that the eventual demise  of Company A was directly related to 
its financial position and this had been present  at the time of the investment. 
The omission of this information  by Crowdcube  was misleading. 
Mr S concluded by saying  that in his view, the reason why essential information  in an 
investment promotion  isnt disclosed is unimportant. He said the fact that information 
which ought  to have been  presented, but wasnt, is enough to consider the promotion 
misleading and therefore entitle him to compensation. 
Mr S also said that the provisional findings in this case  were  inconsistent with another  
set of cases  involving  a misleading  promotion  in which  this service  had found in his 
favour. He said the facts were essentially the same  and those findings ought to be taken 
into account  here. 
Ref: DRN99898838my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ss position that his complaint should  be upheld and that he is entitled to 
compensation. But Im not persuaded to alter the findings in my second provisional decision 
in light of the comments he has made  and this is for a number of reasons. 
I dont agree that in the circumstances  of this particular case it would be fair to conclude that 
Crowdcube did not comply with COBS 4.2. For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied Crowdcube 
did take all reasonable steps to ensure that this promotion was fair, clear  and not misleading.  
And in any event, in this case, Im not persuaded Company As financial promotion was 
misleading, unclear  or unfair. As I have mentioned, there was nothing in the original pitch  
that made any reference to Company As tax position or anything to do with potential  
arrears. I did not conclude that there  was information in the pitch  which  Crowdcube ought  to 
have verified, but did not. 
The only issue in this case is whether the tax arrears that were possibly building  at the time, 
as Ive said in my second provisional decision, ought  to have been uncovered by Crowdcube 
through an assessment of the warranties made by Company A in response to Crowdcubes  
legal review document. 
Although my initial view was that they couldve have been, I was persuaded by Crowdcubes 
explanation of the reasons why it wouldnt  have  been reasonably possible for it to have 
uncovered these arrears  at the time. And in particular, in reviewing the information available  in 
light of Crowdcubes  comments, I was satisfied that there was simply no objective  evidence which 
Crowdcube could,  or even  should,  have obtained at the time which wouldve allowed it to uncover 
any difficulties which Company A was facing in paying HMRC. In reaching  that provisional  
conclusion, I also took into account  the timing of HMRCs  winding  up petition which was many  
months after Company  As promotion had been approved. On balance, I remain  satisfied that 
while some evidence came to light later which suggested the balance owing to HMRC  was 
increasing, this was not available at the time the promotion was approved.  In my view this means 
that at the time the promotion was approved, it was fair, clear and not misleading.  
And so the key point here is that Mr S makes  a number of references,  in his comments, to 
information that shouldve been  presented  to investors but wasnt   but my conclusion is that, on 
balance, such information couldnt  be presented at the time. And I dont  consider  it would be fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case,  to now hold Crowdcube liable for 
losses incurred by investors, on the basis  of information which  it would not reasonably have been 
able to uncover  and which did not, strictly speaking,  form part of the promotion it approved.  
Ive considered Mr Ss comments  on the entirely  separate set of cases  which  he has referred 
to. Id first like to emphasise  that this service  does not operate like the courts, and decisions 
by ombudsmen do not set precedents in the way that judgments by the courts  do. And I 
cannot comment on the findings  in those cases,  or make reference to them here  except 
insofar as to confirm that in my view, the issues in those  cases were different  and, crucially,  I 
am not making  a finding here that information available to Crowdcube wasnt disclosed to 
investors when it shouldve been.  For the reasons Ive given above,  I am concluding that 
information which was available  and relevant to the financial promotion was disclosed by 
Crowdcube  and that in my view, it took reasonable steps to ensure that the promotion was 
fair, clear and not misleading. 
Ref: DRN99898839For all these reasons, and having  reconsidered the matter again in light of all the comments  
Ive received and the evidence available, Im satisfied  that on balance the promotion was 
fair, clear and not misleading. This means  that my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Mr S has made references  to the binding nature of this decision  but Id like to confirm that 
if Mr S rejects  this decision, it will not be binding  on the parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9989883