K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  transferred money  without her 
permission. Mrs H says that a large  sum of money is missing and she wants  Halifax to return 
it to her.
background
When Mrs H initially complained to this service, she said that Halifax had moved  money to 
another account with her knowledge. And that shed lost about £2,000.
Mrs H said that Halifax  had mis-sold her an account.  And that one branch had told her to put 
money in to it when  a different branch advised against this.
Some of Mrs Hs complaint points related to accounts held with different  businesses. 
After the investigator  sent Mrs H his initial recommendation, Mrs H clarified her concerns. 
She said that Halifax had transferred £35,000 and £2,600 without her consent and that 
Halifax had taken her money.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. He couldnt find any 
evidence of the amounts of £35,000  and £2,600 that Mrs H referred  to as having been  taken  
from her account by members of staff at Halifax.
Mrs H disagrees  with the investigators recommendation. She said that she was going to 
give us further  evidence but this hasnt been  received  by this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs H raised a number of concerns  with this service. For the purpose of this 
complaint, I need  to consider what,  if anything, Halifax  has done wrong.
Mrs H refers to her account being overdrawn  by £35,000 in May 2019. I cant  see this 
amount on Mrs Hs bank statements. I can however see that a cheque  for just over £40,000  
was drawn on Mrs Hs current account on 3 May 2019. As Mrs Hs current account was only 
in credit by 46 pence at the time, the cheque appears  to have been returned. So I cant  
reasonably say that Halifax has taken her money.
Mrs H also refers to a sum of £2,600 being  missing. Im not exactly  sure what  date Mrs H 
thinks that this happened.  However, I can see that around 25 March  2019, Mrs Hs current  
account was overdrawn by just over £2,550.  Mrs H transferred £2,600 from the everyday  
saver account that she held with Halifax to her current account  presumably  to put her 
current account back in credit.  So I cant  find that Halifax has somehow taken this money off 
Mrs H. And I dont  have enough evidence to reasonably conclude  that Halifax made this 
transfer without  Mrs Hs permission.
Overall, I cant find that Halifax was transferring money without Mrs Hs permission or that 
members of staff have taken her money. Im sorry that this is likely to come  as a 
disappointment to her.
Ref: DRN96871902my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9687190