K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) hasnt offered to settle his claim fairly on his 
property insurance  policy.  
Any reference to UKI includes  its agents.  
background
Mr W took out a property insurance policy covering  his contents in July 2018. The policy 
provided additional cover of up to £26,000  for valuable unspecified items of jewellery and 
watches and a specified watch he said hed bought for around £11,500. 
In October  2018, Mr W suffered a theft of his property so he submitted a claim on his 
insurance policy. He provided a list of his losses which included items of designer  clothing, 
sunglasses, watches and tools. He also sent UKI some photos and screenshots  to support 
his claim.  
UKI carried out an investigation into the claim through interviewing  Mr W and attempting  to 
interview various people  he had seen around  the time of the theft. It also asked  Mr W for 
further evidence  to support his claim  specifically  valuations  and proof  of ownership of the 
items hed claimed  for.
In February 2019,  Mr W raised  a complaint with UKI due to the amount of time the claim was 
taking. It accepted there had been  some  delays in its investigation so it agreed to pay him 
£75 to compensate  him for this. In the meantime, Mr W said he was still trying  to get the 
outstanding receipts  to support his claim.  
 In May 2019, Mr W sent UKI a photo  of a receipt for one of his watches that had been  
stolen. UKI said this wasnt sufficient as it didnt show the item number or the date the watch  
was purchased  so it couldnt confirm it was the receipt for the stolen item. Mr Ws also sent 
UKI screenshots of websites selling the same items hes claimed  for; various photos of items 
in use by him or in their boxes; and receipts for some items  of clothes. Mr Ws said he wasnt  
able to provide  the boxes or paperwork for his watches as he said they had been stolen too.
UKI has highlighted a number of concerns it has with the evidence Mr W was able to 
provide. For example, its said it didnt have any evidence of one watch or sufficient proof he 
owned the three other watches. And the photos of the belongings he provided were either 
generic; didnt clearly  show the items  (for example in pictures where he was wearing  them);  
or didnt  prove their value. So it said it needed evidence Mr W owned  all of the items he was 
claiming for and of their values. 
UKI paid around  £3,200 of Mr Ws claim but declined  the remaining amount  which  it 
estimated at around  £34,000 as it didnt  have enough evidence  of the value or ownership of 
these items.  It referred to its policy terms which say policyholders should attach receipts and 
other documents to support their claim and they must provide information requested by UKI.
Ref: DRN99009872Mr W raised a complaint with our service about  UKIs handling of the claim and the amount 
its offered to settle it. He said at the time of the sale of the policy,  he was led to believe he 
wouldnt need to give UKI proof of items worth less than £10,000. And he says,  had he 
known this would be needed, he couldve provided  this information when he first took out the 
policy. He wanted  his claim paid in full and he wasnt happy with the delays. Finally,  he was 
unhappy he was paying for insurance  when,  he said, he had no property left to insure.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. He thought UKI did tell Mr W hed need  to 
provide evidence of items worth over £10,000  and didnt think  it told Mr W he wouldnt need 
evidence of the other contents. The investigator didnt think  the information  Mr W had given 
was good enough to validate his claim and he thought  UKIs  requests for further information 
were reasonable considering most items  had been  purchased within recent  years. Mr W 
didnt agree with our investigators assessment. So the complaints been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint  I know this will come as a disappointment to him. Ill explain why.
Is UKI acting fairly by asking for proof  of every item claimed for?
When Mr W first took out the policy, he told UKI hed bought a watch  for £11,500 which  he 
wanted to cover above the usual £10,000  item limit. And having  listened to the call recording 
from the time, Im satisfied UKI explained  to Mr W he would need to send in a professional  
valuation of any item individually listed (i.e. this watch).  At this time, Mr W said he had a 
valuation from around 18 months before he could provide.  But I cant see this was done. 
After Mr W made the claim, I can see from the validation report he said he thought the value 
of this watch was under  the £10,000 limit  which might be why he doesnt think  he needs to 
give further information. But considering the terms of the policy   and that UKI was on risk 
for a higher  value because of the information  Mr W initially gave  I think  its reasonable for 
UKI to want to rely on a professional valuation. And I dont think its unreasonable  to expect 
Mr W to provide the valuation record he said he had at the time of the sale.  
I understand Mr W says he was led to believe he wouldnt need to provide evidence of items  
worth less than £10,000. But I havent seen anything in this case  to make me think  this is 
correct. In any event, UKI has said it wont cover  the items Mr W hasnt been able to 
evidence were owned by him or their worth. And in this case, Im satisfied its reasonable for 
UKI to do so. 
I can see Mr Ws claim is for a high value. And he hasnt been able to sufficiently evidence 
the majority of the items hes claimed  for  having proven around  ten percent of the value of 
his overall claim. Throughout his dealings, I can see hes indicated  he was able to get more 
evidence (for example shopping  records for some of the jewellery) but he hasnt done so. 
So, taking all this together, I think its fair for UKI to only pay for the items Mr W can prove.  If 
Mr W now has this information, he can still give it directly to UKI to consider if it agrees to.
Ref: DRN99009873Is the information UKI requires reasonable?
Ive looked carefully  at the terms of the policy. These explain UKI is entitled to ask for any 
evidence to support  a claim. I appreciate its difficult for Mr W to provide receipts for the 
items hes claimed for as some of his paperwork was stolen and most likely  lost or thrown 
away over the years.  But in this case whilst UKI has requested  receipts where possible, it 
has also offered Mr W alternative types  of evidence he could  send in including  bank 
statements or confirmation from the shops he bought some  of the more expensive items  
from. And considering when Mr W bought the items and their value, I think  thats  reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr W has said he doesnt  know exactly when  the items were  purchased  so he 
would find it difficult to get this alternative  information. But I can see he knows the years  
each item was bought. So I dont think its unreasonable to expect hed be able to go through 
his banking records for those specific years   or that it would be impossible for him to do so.
Mr W thinks hes given  UKI enough information  already  to prove he owns  several  of the 
items for example, photos of him wearing or using  the items and photos of them  in their 
boxes. But many of the photos are from a distance and in this case,  I accept these photos 
dont show their condition  or value.  It also isnt clear whether they are photos of the specific  
items Mr W is claiming for or when the photos  were  taken.  Mr Ws also given us a photo of 
part of a receipt he says is for one of the watches bought for over £5,000. But there is 
nothing on this to satisfy me its more likely the receipt is for the specific  item hes claiming 
for  or even when it was purchased. 
Overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think UKI is acting unreasonably in requesting  
more information  from Mr W to support  his claim  and I dont think the evidence Mr W has 
provided is enough to satisfy  me UKI should  pay the remaining part of his claim.
I understand Mr Ws also unhappy he continued paying for the insurance policy when he 
feels theres nothing  left to insure. But the insurance  policy  covers all of the contents of his 
property subject to the terms and conditions.  And I understand the policy  wasnt renewed at 
the end of the year. 
Ive looked carefully  at the timeline of events and contact notes provided by UKI. And whilst I 
can see there was some  delay whilst UKI was carrying  out some  investigations  into the 
claim, I understand  it offered  Mr W £75 to make up for this which he accepted. Otherwise,  
much of the delay to the claim being  paid was caused by Mr W not providing further 
evidence when asked  by UKI. So I dont  think it needs to do anything further in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under  the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 October  2020.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9900987