K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Mrs H took out Superior pet insurance for her dog to start on 1 March 2016 which she 
renewed. The policy provides lifetime  cover while the policy is in force. The insurer  is 
Red Sands. Mrs H claimed for investigation into her dogs  vomiting  between  October  and 
November 2018.
Red Sands  declined the claim  for three reasons. It said:
the vet notes showed Mrs Hs dog was treated for regular bouts of vomiting  before 
the policy started.  So the claim was for a pre-existing  condition,  which  wasnt  covered 
by the policy  terms
the vet notes showed the dogs vomiting  was noticed within the first 14 days  of the 
policy. Under the policy terms there was no cover  for such claims 
if Mrs H had told it about  the vomiting  when she bought the policy Red Sands would 
have added an exclusion to the policy to exclude cover on all claims with respect to 
the digestive system  with effect  from 1 March 2016.  Red Sands added the exclusion 
to apply retrospectively from the start of the policy. So the exclusion applied  to the 
claim and there  was no cover.
Mrs H complained to us, represented by her husband. She said her vet told Red Sands the 
claim condition  wasnt linked to a pre-existing condition but it still didnt pay the claim. She 
wants Red Sands to pay the claim.  She also told us shed now cancelled  the policy  and got 
alternative insurance. 
Our investigator thought Red Sands unfairly  declined the claim and should  pay the claim in 
line with the remaining policy  terms. It should  also remove the specific exclusion relating to 
claims for the digestive system.
Red Sands  disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said when Mrs H bought the 
policy on-line she'd ticked the box saying shed read the presumptions  and policy  terms 
which were clear pre-existing  conditions werent  covered  and it reserved the right to apply an 
exclusion. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined 
the claim and applied a specific exclusion to Mrs Hs policy,  and I dont think it did. Ill explain 
why.
can Red Sands fairly rely on the pre-existing  condition exclusion?
The policy says Red Sands wont pay for:
Ref: DRN94062512any pre-existing condition or claim for costs  relating  to anillness that relates to or 
results from anillness or clinical signs your pet had before the commencement  
date.
The vet notes show that before the policy started in 2016 Mrs Hs dog was seen  by the vet 
due to vomiting once  in 2014 and once in 2015. The vet notes say:
19/06/2014: Started vomiting occasionally on Sunday. Ok Tuesday  vomited  again  
last night.. Phone Conversation  owner phoned- has vom this pm - white froth - but 
not been offered any food.
The dog received medication and theres  no entry of any problem with vomiting  until over a 
year later when the notes  say:
10/08/2015: Ate cat poo two days ago and has eaten but gotten  sick on days  after 
this.
The dog was given  medication. There are no further entries about vomiting until after the 
policy was taken out and from those later entries  the vet thought the dog vomited  after hes 
been scavenging on walks.
In 2018 Mrs Hs dog had a prolonged bout of vomiting, for a couple of weeks,  and was 
generally unwell,  which is the incident  Mrs H claimed for. Mrs Hs vet told Red Sands she 
thought it should pay the claim as the dog had never been diagnosed with a specific  
condition relating to his vomiting and vomiting  isnt a medical condition or diagnosis. 
From what  Mrs Hs vet says, vomiting  is a very general symptom,  which  could be caused  by 
various issues. I dont think theres  any evidence  that the one off episodes in 2014 and 2015 
are related  to the prolonged period of vomiting  in 2018 that Mrs Hs claimed  for. So I dont 
think Red Sands can fairly rely on the pre-existing  condition exclusion to decline the claim.
can Red Sands fairly rely on the first 14 days exclusion?
The policy says Red Sands wont pay for:
Any Illness  that first shows clinical signs within 14 days of the commencement date.
The vet notes from the dog's visit to the vet on 18 March 2016  say:
been vomiting once a day for a few days 
The notes dont give a date when the vomiting  started. Red Sands say as the dog had 
already been vomiting for a few days that would have been in the first 14 days  of the policy.  
But Mrs Hs policy started on 1 March  2016. The first 14 days of cover ended at the end of 
14 March. The few days could very easily refer to the vomiting starting on 15 or 16 March 
which isnt within the first 14 days.. 
On the evidence Red Sands can't fairly say the claim  condition  started  within the first 
14 days of the policy  and use that exclusion to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN94062513can Red Sands fairly rely on the digestive system exclusion?
I also dont think Red Sands can fairly add, backdate and apply the exclusion for all claims 
for the digestive  system.
Ive seen the on-line  sales  process when Mrs H bought the policy. Theres no evidence that 
Red Sands  asked Mrs H about  pre-existing conditions or vet treatment when she bought  the 
policy. If it had, and Mrs H misrepresented the answers, it might be fair to apply exclusions 
retrospectively  if thats what it would have  done had it known the true position. The law 
allows this in some circumstances where theres been a relevant misrepresentation. But as 
Red Sands  hasnt shown me it asked Mrs H those questions there isnt an issue of 
misrepresentation.
One of the presumptions  in the sales process  is that Red Sands reserves the right to apply 
an exclusion  in respect of any symptoms, illness or conditions it subsequently learns were 
pre-existing at the start of the policy or within the first 14 days  of the policy.  The relevant 
illness was sickness but Mrs H wasnt asked  about  her dogs medical  history.  Red Sands  
imposed an exclusion  that was very broad in scope. I dont think that was fair or reasonable.
The way the presumption is worded would allow Red Sands to impose  any exclusion 
whether it relates  to the specific  illness/condition or not, effectively allowing Red Sands 
complete discretion to exclude anything. I dont think thats fair.
I understand that Mrs H has now cancelled her policy. But for the avoidance of doubt 
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusion for all claims with respect to the digestive 
system with effect from the start of the policy. It cant fairly rely on the exclusion to decline 
the claim.
outcome
Red Sands  must pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits. If 
Mrs H has already paid the vet then it must  add interest as Ive detailed below. It must also 
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  from the 
start of the policy.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay the claim subject to the remaining  policy terms, conditions and limits. If Mrs H 
has already paid the vet interest  must be added at 8% simple a year from the date of 
claim to the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  
from the start of the policy.
Ref: DRN94062514Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs H how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9406251