K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S FS) wont  refund costs 
she incurred when using  a premium service to process visas  for a holiday that shed paid for 
using her M&S FS credit card. She brings  her complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
background 
In May 2018  two close family relatives  of Mrs T who both lived abroad  came to visit her. She 
intended to travel with her relatives to various European destinations. But due to their 
passports both of Mrs Ts relatives required visas to visit some  of the planned  countries.    
Mrs T acted as sponsor  for these visas.  
To obtain the necessary  visas Mrs T arranged an appointment online for her relatives  to 
attend an application centre.  However the appointment that was offered was over three  
weeks later and so Mrs T decided to book  the appointment using the premium service 
provided by the visa processing company. This service  provided appointments around one 
week later and was to include a special lounge,  no queuing,  a photo booth service,  free 
photocopying and printing, free SMS and a free courier  service.  Mrs T paid a total of £120  
(£60 per relative) to use the premium service. She used her M&S FS credit card to make the 
payment. 
Mrs T and her two relatives  attended  the appointment but were very disappointed  with the 
service they received. They  werent  provided  with the additional services that Mrs T had paid 
for. Mrs T complained to the visa processing company and asked for a refund but this was 
declined. 
Mrs T made a claim to M&S FS under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for the 
£120 shed paid. Mrs T said there had been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation of 
the service being  offered. 
M&S FS declined Mrs Ts claim. It said that Section 75 didnt apply as in order to make  a 
claim any goods or services purchased must have a minimum single value of £100  and Mrs 
T had purchased two premium service appointments costing £60 each. M&S FS said the 
cost of the premium  service fell below the limit for a claim. 
Mrs T provided a copy of the receipt  for the service and said the entire  transaction had been 
treated as one transaction. 
M&S FS didnt change its view and also said that the debtor  creditor - supplier relationship  
wasnt intact as the debtor  (Mrs T) hadnt used  the service but it was her relatives who had. 
It said Mrs T should  complain to the supplier.
Ref: DRN96519112Mrs T was unhappy at the decision made  by M&S FS and complained  to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She said the premium 
service was offered  separately and cost £60 per applicant and it was difficult  to say that each 
of the premium services  wasnt  a single entity.  The investigator said Section 75 didnt apply 
to Mrs Ts claim.
Mrs T didnt  agree with our investigators  view.  She says that the entire transaction was 
treated as one appointment  as it was at the same place and time for her two relatives. It was 
also for the same trip. 
Mrs T said that the debtor-creditor-supplier was in existence as she had been the sponsor 
for her relatives to take the trip and had paid for the service.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  provides  consumers with extra  protection  in 
certain circumstances.  It means  that a credit  provider  takes  the same responsibility  as a 
retailer if there is a breach  of contract. Here, Mrs T says she didnt  receive the service shed 
paid for when attending with her relatives to submit their visa applications  for processing.
The issue  for me to decide is whether this was one transaction  costing £120, or two costing 
£60 each, as if its two then Section 75 doesnt apply.
I accept that Mrs Ts relatives  were provided  with the same  date, time and place to attend for 
their visa applications to be submitted. And Ive also seen that the receipt shows  one figure 
of £120 as the sales amount and total. But I dont agree  that this means  there was only one 
transaction for £120.
Its agreed that the premium service cost an extra  £60 per applicant over and above the 
actual visa application cost. And I think that regardless  of the appointment being  at the same 
time there were still two separate visa applications to be processed and the premium 
service applied individually to each of those applications. I dont think I can reasonably say 
that because Mrs Ts relatives  werent given two distinct appointments that this was one 
service being offered  that cost £120. The service only applied  to both of Mrs Ts relations 
because she had paid the £60 fee for each of them.
I also dont think the receipt is proof that it was one transaction as it only says sale amount 
and total on it and doesnt provide any further  details. I dont think  I can reasonably infer 
this is one receipt for one service.
So for the reasons above Im not upholding Mrs T complaint as I agree Section 75 doesnt 
apply to Mrs Ts claim because each of the transactions were  below the set limit. And I dont 
think M&S FS has acted unfairly in declining her claim. Mrs T can, if she wishes,  pursue her 
complaint against  the company for the poor service  she says she received.
Ref: DRN96519113As Ive found the section doesnt  apply, I dont need  to consider whether the debtor - creditor 
 supplier relationship  was in existence and so I dont think  its necessary to deal with that 
issue. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9651911