K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why: 
This policy was taken out in a meeting. As it was sold so long ago, neither Halifax  nor 
Mrs R have been able to provide paperwork from the time of sale.  And Mrs R hasnt 
been able to give me any significant detail about what was discussed during the meeting 
 but this is understandable considering the sale was over 20 years  ago. She is 
confident however  that she wasnt given an option. I have limited information  about the 
sale, so I have  to decide  what I think is more likely to have happened on the balance of 
probability. 
I havent seen  sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So 
having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think  its more likely 
that Halifax wouldve  made Mrs R was aware  that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it, even  though she may not remember  that now, many years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Mrs R had some sick pay she couldve 
relied on to help make her repayments.  She also says she had savings she couldve 
relied on. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she wouldve  
received, and for up to 12 months if she was unable to work because of accident or 
sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job. And having  the 
PPI meant she couldve used her savings  to cover other  necessary expenses  at what  
couldve been a difficult time if she found herself out of work. So I think she wouldve 
found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said  and I know  she feels very strongly about this. 
But for the reasons Ive explained  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN91558512Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9155851