K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the time it took Santander UK Plc (Santander)  to clear a cheque he 
deposited at a branch. He feels that resulted  in there  being  insufficient funds in his account 
to allow  a cheque  payment of £70,000 to go through.  He is also unhappy with the way his 
complaint was subsequently  dealt with.
background
On the 5 November 2018  Mr W had a cleared balance  of £75,077.91 in his current  account. 
That day he made a transfer out of £15,000  leaving  a cleared balance of £60,077.91. He 
also made a cheque deposit  of £29,438.61. He then wrote a personal cheque  for £70,000 
which was presented on 7 November 2018.  But at that time Santanders system wouldnt 
allow the payment  to leave his account because there were  insufficient cleared funds of only 
£60,077.91. Mr W had other funds  with Santander  at the time,  in different accounts, and felt 
Santander should have allowed the payment  to go through because  the totality of his funds 
exceeded the amount of the cheque.  
He also complains that although  Santander says the cheque  for £29,438.61  he paid in 
wouldnt have been available  to use until 9 November 2018,  because it hadnt cleared, in 
fact it ought to have  done. He said a new Cheque Imaging  Process had been adopted and 
implemented in the branch in November 2018 which meant  his cheque ought to have been 
cleared by the 7 November 2018.  Santander  said that the new process wasnt  operational in 
that particular  branch  until the 21 November being  after his cheque was presented. 
Mr W called  Santander on the 7 November to complain. The call cut short but Santander 
logged it as a complaint  anyway, and provided a response on the 12 November.  Mr W 
submitted a written  complaint on the 13 November which Santander didnt receive.  He re-
sent it and it was received on the 10 December.  Santander  issued  a final response  letter  on 
the 12 December  which included Mr Ws ombudsman referral rights.
Santander didnt  feel they had done anything wrong since  they processed  Mr Ws cheque 
deposit within the usual 5 day timescale and when his personal cheque  was presented for 
payment there simply werent sufficient funds  in his account to honour it. It also felt it had 
handled his complaint properly and in a timely fashion.
Mr W was unhappy with Santanders response and so an adjudicator  from this service 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  Santander  had done  anything wrong. Mr W 
disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide. My decisions 
are based  on the evidence  in front of me. Where such  evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, I consider what is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances  of the case. I think we have an unfortunate situation  here.  
Ref: DRN92713672It is every customers responsibility to ensure that there are enough cleared funds to meet 
any cheques presented. There were insufficient  funds  on the day Mr Ws cheque was 
presented for payment,  so the first issue  is whether Santanders new process  was in 
operation or not. Santander  says it wasnt. I appreciate that Mr W says he was told that the 
cheque he deposited  would be cleared through that process but I think  he must be mistaken,  
since his cheque was deposited at an ATM.  I dont doubt Mr W learned  of the new system  at 
some time, but as it wasnt in operation until the 21 November, it is unlikely that a staff 
member would say it was operational on the 5 November, when clearly  it was not.
The second  issue  is whether Santander could have allowed the cheque to go through on the 
basis that there were  funds in other accounts  to cover the temporary shortfall  on his current 
account. As our adjudicator explained, when a cheque is deposited through a banks system  
it is an automated process without  the involvement  of a real person. That automated process 
doesnt allow for customers to be contacted at the very moment  in time when the system 
detects there  are insufficient funds. It is only later that the customer is notified that there 
were insufficient funds available at the point of presentation. Without formal instruction from 
its customer a bank  simply  cannot move funds  from one account to another,  and in this case  
there was no such instruction. As such, I think Santander was correct not to allow the 
payment for £70,000 and I therefore cant say there has been  a bank error.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr W sent a complaint on the 13 November and equally I 
have no reason to doubt Santander when they say they did not receive it. When they did 
receive it they followed the correct procedure in responding  promptly  and providing Mr Ws 
rights to bring his complaint to this service. They therefore acted properly and any further 
correspondence relating to the complaint they received  they were entitled  to not respond.  I 
dont therefore  feel Santander have acted  unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with Mr W.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9271367