K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
Ms M paid a monthly fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to her. 
Ms M didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Ms Ms case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Ms M and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
On our questionnaire,  Ms M initially told us that Bank of Scotland  sold her the URCA during 
a meeting in 2007. She also said that she hadnt  previously held a fee-free account.  
However, during  our investigation, Bank of Scotland checked its records, which it says show 
that Ms M opened  one of its fee-free accounts  in 2010 and that it then sold the URCA to her 
in 2011.
I have seen summaries of some of Bank  of Scotlands records  and I think  they are accurate. 
In more recent correspondence,  Ms M also seems  to have  accepted them. Shes  told us that 
she may have had a fee-free account with Bank of Scotland, but it was a long time ago.
Bank of Scotland has also told us that it sold the URCA to Ms M online,  rather than in a 
meeting. Ms M hasnt commented on this directly, but again I think  that Bank of Scotlands  
records about this are probably  correct. So it seems likely to me that before Bank of 
Scotland sold the URCA to Ms M, she had held a fee-free account and then switched to the 
URCA online in 2011.
When Bank of Scotland sold the URCA  to Ms M, its potential  benefits included car 
breakdown cover, travel insurance,  mobile  phone insurance and cheaper overdrafts than 
Bank of Scotland provided  to its customers with fee-free accounts.
Ref: DRN93051162During the course of this complaint, Ms M has raised several different issues.  Amongst other 
things, shes told us that: 
she was talked into having the account
she paid each month and never used any of the benefits
she wasnt told there was an alternative  free account
she already had car breakdown cover  and mobile phone  insurance from elsewhere, 
and so didnt need them from the URCA. 
Ms M also said on our questionnaire  that Bank of Scotland recommended  the URCA to her. 
However, as Im satisfied  that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Ms M online, I dont think it 
made such a recommendation. Similarly, I dont think it would have talked her into buying  the 
account, as I doubt that any of its staff spoke  to her directly. I also think  its very likely that 
Ms M knew about fee-free  accounts  as it seems  she had held one previously. And I havent   
seen anything to make me think that Bank of Scotland was taking away  Ms Ms choice to 
keep a fee-free  account. 
I fully accept that Ms M may well have had car breakdown cover  and mobile  phone  
insurance from other sources,  but as Bank  of Scotland  didnt recommend the URCA to Ms 
M, it didnt have to check this. 
When Bank of Scotland sold bank accounts  over the internet, as in Ms Ms case, it had to 
give customers clear and fair information  about the account, including  the potential  benefits 
and the cost. Although I cant tell exactly what Ms M saw when she looked online, and I 
accept that Bank of Scotland may not have got everything right for her, I think  its sales 
screens would  have told her about  the URCAs fees and about the main potential  benefits of 
the account. Indeed, I can see that some  of the potential benefits may well have been 
attractive to Ms M. For example,  I understand that she overdrew her account quite frequently  
and so may have  expected the cheaper overdraft to be useful, and I can see from Bank of 
Scotlands records that she registered  a mobile  phone for insurance cover. 
 
I accept that Ms M may not have actively used all the potential  benefits of the URCA, but 
packaged bank  accounts cant usually be tailored for individual needs and this doesnt mean 
it was unreasonable for Bank  of Scotland to sell the URCA to her. 
I appreciate that Ms M has done  her best to remember what happened when Bank of 
Scotland sold her the URCA, but as she has said herself the events concerned took place  a 
long time ago. And from the evidence I have  seen, I dont think  that Bank  of Scotland treated 
Ms M unfairly.  I dont  think it mis-sold  the URCA to her. 
Ref: DRN93051163 my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020. . 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9305116