K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy by HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
I set out the full background to Mr Ss complaint in my provisional decision which  I issued in 
September 2019. Ive attached a copy of that decision  here and it forms part of my final 
decision.
I invited both parties to make further representations or provide further evidence. Both 
parties confirmed that they had nothing to add. Mr S confirmed that he accepted  my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments to make, or evidence to provide, I see no reason  
to depart from my provisional findings. HSBC have raised no objections  to my findings that 
Mr S would have been prevented from claiming under the unemployment cover if he only 
lost one of his two jobs.  And it hasnt disputed that its likely Mr S wouldnt have  bought the 
policy had he understood this term.
So, on balance, I think that Mr S lost out as a result  of what HSBC did wrong.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and direct HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay compensation as set 
out in putting things  right in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Provisional decision
background
Mr S took out a credit card with HSBC in 1995. At the same time it seems he bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on his card for up to a year if he couldnt  work. It also 
provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
Mr S says the PPI wasnt discussed with him and it was just added  to his account. 
Ref: DRN92952632The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagrees, so his case  has been 
passed to me to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im considering upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why.
HSBC wouldnt have given  Mr S a personal  recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt  have to make 
sure it was right for him. But it did need to give him enough information about the PPI so he could 
make his own mind up.
HSBC hasnt  been able to provide any of the original  documents  from the sale, so I cant know for 
sure what information Mr S was given. But looking at other  documents from HSBC involving  the sale 
of PPI I think its unlikely that Mr S received much more than the most basic information.
Mr S had two jobs at the time of sale. He was self-employed in one role in a business  with his wife, 
and he also worked on as an employee  in a different role. 
I dont have a copy of the exact  policy, so Ive looked at the closest policy  still available, which  is from 
two years before the sale.  I think  its likely  the policy  in force at the time of sale was very similar to 
this.
Under the terms of the policy Mr S could only make a successful claim  for unemployment if he was 
out of work  and registered as unemployed with the Department of Employment (as was).
So Mr S wouldnt have been able to claim if hed only lost one of his jobs.  I think  if Mr S had lost one 
of his jobs hed have expected to have been able to claim for unemployment,  not least  because  of the 
significant drop in his income. Had he understood he couldnt claim  unless he lost both jobs together 
 and therefore  was out of work and able to register as such - I dont think  hed have thought  the 
policy offered  him a useful benefit  and I dont think he would have bought it. 
I dont think HSBC made this clear to Mr S. So I think Mr S lost out as a result of what  HSBC  did 
wrong.
putting things  right
If my decision becomes final HSBC should do the following:
A. HSBC should find out how much Mr S would  have  owed when  he closed his credit card account 
if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
HSBC should then refund  the difference between what  Mr S owed when he closed his account 
and what he would have  owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.
Ref: DRN92952633B. HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what  Mr S would have owed when  
he closed  his account from when he closed  it until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C. If  when  HSBC works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  Mr S paid 
more than enough to clear  his balance,  HSBC  should also pay simple  interest on the extra Mr S 
paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point  when  Mr S wouldve owed HSBC 
something on his card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. HSBC should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I am provisionally intending to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I will consider any further evidence either  
party wishes to provide which  I receive  before 27 October 2019 before making my final decision.
Ref: DRN9295263