K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  lent to him and those 
lending decisions were  irresponsible  because QuickQuid:  
failed to conduct proper/adequate checks before lending;
failed to identify  that Mr S was in financial difficulties at the time of the lending;
continued to lend to him when short term lending was not in his best interests.
As a result, Mr S says that he became increasingly dependent on payday loans. 
Mr S is represented by a third party.
background
Loan Date approved amount Interest repaid (rounded)
Date closed notes
1 2 August 2010 £100 £89 29 October 2010 Two Loan 
extensions and Late fee
2 10 November 2010 £50 £9 19 November 2010
3 9 December 2010 £50 £13 17 December 2010
4 10 March  2011 £50 £13 18 March  2011
5 21 March  2011 £50 £13 1 April 2011
6 17 June 2011 £50 £13 5 July 2011
7 22 August 2011 £50 £13 28 September 
2011
8 14 October 2011 £100 £50 28 November 2011
9 11 December 2011 £200 £100 27 January 2012
10 28 January 2012 £250 £63 28 February 2012
11 28 February 2012 £600 £150 28 March  2012
12 28 March  2012 £500+
£25£131 27 April 2012 one top up
13 27 April 2012 £700 £175 28 June 2012 Late fee
14 29 June 2012 £100+
£100£50 27 July 2012 one top up
15 27 July 2012 £250 £63 28 August 2012
16 10 September 2012 £200 £50 28 September 
2012
17 29 October 2012 £200 + 
£300 + 
£600- - no repayments  
made
Loans 1 to 3 not included in this complaint at Mr S request
Loans 11 to 17 QuickQuid upholds and has made offers on
Using the information QuickQuid has provided I created the table above which sets out some 
of the loan details. I have  referred to the loans by these numbers. 
In the final response  letter  to Mr S representative,  QuickQuid did not agree  that any 
irresponsible lending  had taken place. So Mr S brought  his complaint to this service.
QuickQuid raised an objection to us looking into Mr S' first three  loans as they were  taken 
out more than six years ago from the time he made  his complaint. Following this, Mr S asked 
Ref: DRN96391042us only to consider  his loans which QuickQuid had not objected to. So this service  has 
considered Loans 4 to 17. 
In the letter  sending its submissions to us to defend the complaint, QuickQuid made an offer 
to Mr S in relation  to Loans  11 to 17.  
Our adjudicator considered the complaint in relation to Loans 4 to 10 - the complaints which 
remained in dispute.  She thought that QuickQuid should put things right in relation to Loans 
6 and 7 together with Loans  11 to 17 forming QuickQuids  offer.  And later our adjudicator 
negotiated with QuickQuid that it would also write  off the balance outstanding on Loan 17. 
This was all proposed  to Mr S as a composite  offer from QuickQuid together with the 
adjudication. Mr S made it clear that he did not think that the impact  these loans have  had on 
him, in particular the debt recovery methods of QuickQuid, has been  taken into account to a 
proper extent when  considering the complaint. He thinks that QuickQuids offer is an empty  
insulting gesture  and accuses QuickQuid of lack of empathy and having no compassion.
The complaint remained unresolved, so it was been  passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 17 January 2019  in which I reviewed Loans  4 to 10 being the 
unresolved complaints. My provisional decision  was to uphold the complaint for Loans 4 to 
10 and I said that because QuickQuid should not have given Mr S the loans he took,  its not 
right that Mr S should  have to pay interest  or charges on these, or have them affect his credit 
file in a negative way. 
And I made a provisional decision that an award for distress  and inconvenience  was due.
I said that I was planning  to direct  that QuickQuid  do as follows:
honour its commitment to put things right as it has offered in relation to Loans 11 to 
17 including the write off of the principal  balance of Loan 17; and
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr S in respect  of Loans 4 to 10 as 
well as those included  in the offer for Loans 11 to 17; and  
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loans from Mr S credit file, and;
 
pay to Mr S a sum of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest and it must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
I attach my provisional decision dated 17 January  2019, which forms part of this final 
determination and should be read in conjunction  with it. Both parties had until 
31 January 2019  to reply with any additional comments or evidence for me to review. 
Mr S representative has told us that Mr S accepts my provisional decision  and has nothing 
further to add. 
Ref: DRN96391043QuickQuid has sent several additional  submissions which I have considered. These  are 
summarised here as:
1.QuickQuid maintains that its checks went far enough for the type of credit it provided;
2.QuickQuid says that it is not fair to look at total repayment sums when assessing 
irresponsible lending;
3.QuickQuid wants to ensure fairness  when assessing a loan application and looks at 
interest costs and repayment terms in ratio to the applicants reported  income;
4.QuickQuid refers  to consumer borrowing pattern analysis it has carried  out to 
identify loan dependency/debt spiralling which it says shows  that customers  
typically  will borrow less than 15 days after repaying a loan balance and the 
amounts requested tend to increase over a period of time. Using this research 
QuickQuid goes  on to say that Mr S loan amount  requests fluctuated  and there were 
substantial breaks  ranging  from 16 to 83 days.  And so QuickQuids  conclusion  was 
that Mr S did not show a dependency on short term lending;
5.Mr S repaid most  loans without incident and QuickQuid says that this points to them  
being affordable.
I asked for a copy of that research to which it refers.  I did not receive it but QuickQuid did 
send me some more  information about  the QuickQuid credit reference  agency search  results  
it had received about Mr S before lending. This is undated. But I notice that it has Mr S 
income confidence factor as 9 which I understand to be a high score. I refer to this in the 
section below - my findings.  
The complaint remains unresolved, so it has been passed to me for a decision.  I consider 
that I have  enough information  to come to a final determination. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I am content  that Mr S has accepted my provisional decision. 
I note that QuickQuid has not addressed  the points relating to Mr S net monthly income  
being recorded as over £6,000 net. And QuickQuid  has made  no comment about  the award 
of £200 for distress  and inconvenience.  So I do not make any additional points over and 
above those set out in my provisional  decision on these parts. 
In relation to the first three points then if QuickQuid  says that it looks at interest  costs  and 
repayment terms in ratio to the applicants reported income to assess a loan, then with the 
very high income  recorded for Mr S then its likely that this would always come out as a 
positive for Mr S. 
And the new credit report indicates that the income  confidence factor was a high score  and 
yet QuickQuid had Mr S employment description  which remained the same throughout and 
it is not a role where I would have expected an individual  to be earning  over £6,000 net a 
month in 2011  or now. 
QuickQuids checks did not verify  the income,  and so I think that these loan assessments 
were predicated on what was likely fundamentally inaccurate information when it also had 
Mr S job details. The two do not match and simple  questions  to double check this would 
Ref: DRN96391044have revealed  the reality  and may well have led to more  responsible  lending  decisions 
having been made.
In relation to point  four, then for the Loans  I have  been looking at  loans 4 to 10 - the gaps 
in lending are modest.  The largest gap is about six weeks long. And within the context  of the 
lending relationship to date I do not consider six weeks to be long enough to think that Mr S 
may have  cleared all his debt issues. And QuickQuids reliance on its own research  (which  
I have not been sent)  does not lead me to change my view that I view these loan approvals  
as one lending  chain. 
And the fifth point  is that a good repayment  record leads to the lender concluding that the 
customer had no issues with being able to afford its loans. In relation to Mr S situation I do 
not think that QuickQuid  carried  out checks to see how and with what  funds Mr S was 
repaying its loans, as I would have expected for a borrower focussed creditworthiness 
assessment which  was required at the time.  And I am not of the view that a good  repayment 
record automatically means that Mr S was able to afford the loans. 
In all the circumstances and having  reconsidered the evidence and arguments before me my 
provisional decision remains unchanged. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 17 January 2019,  
I uphold Mr S complaint  in part. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid should  put things right for Mr S in the way 
I have set out above and which appears in my second provisional  decision attached  which is 
part of this final determination.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 12 March 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN96391045the main part of the provisional decision dated 17 January 2019
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. 
In the email sent to Mr S representative after he had complained to QuickQuid, it replied:
As part of our assessment,  we analyse your current financial commitments,  insolvency  
records, delinquency records, County  Court  judgements,  credit enquiries and other credit  
accounts currently open.
We also look at the information you provide us in your application, as well as your loan history 
with us when we decide  to approve  or decline  your loan application. This information is all 
input into our internal  credit  model which is run to obtain your credit  model score. If your credit 
model score does not meet  the minimum  approval  threshold score  then we will decline your 
loan application.
As a responsible lender,we will critically assess the details of your credit  file to provide you 
with a reasonable  and affordable loan.
It was noted your monthly income  was stated as £6099 per month. I compared  your income to 
the average monthly repayment for each loan you took with us. From  this I can see that the 
income you made during each loan with us was always more than enough to cover the 
amount you had to repay us for each loan and thus I cannot agree with you that your loans 
were unaffordable.
In its submissions to this service, QuickQuid has referred to Mr S income  as having  been declared  to 
it as £650. This was the declared income in July 2010. In November 2010 Mr S altered  it to read 
£6099 and it remained as that for all the applications afterwards.  Whether this was a typing error 
when Mr S inputted the amount or not, the fact remains that this large net income  figure appears to 
have been the one it used  from that date. And I think this was the case because  of QuickQuids  
reference to it in its final response email to Mr S. 
In view of Mr S stated employment which did not change for all the loan applications, the fact that his 
salary was inputted as almost ten times larger than the original income figure leads me to think  that 
this would  have been an obvious fact to check. 
Ref: DRN96391046And because  this was not checked then I can understand why QuickQuids assessments would have 
resulted in any loan applications from Mr S being approved. I say this because with such a high 
declared income for loans which ranged from £50 to £250 (Loans  4 to 10) then I think  its likely  that 
the internal  credit model QuickQuid refers to (outlined above) would  have returned a good result 
each time. That in turn would likely  have  prompted an approval each  time. But it would have been 
predicated on what I think was incorrect information.
But the information was so obviously in need of checking I think  that the onus was on QuickQuid to 
make the necessary enquiries to check this and certainly after lending  to him on several occasions. 
I have not received any credit bureau check results  from QuickQuid and so I have  not been  able to 
see what it may have seen  at the time. And it never obtained from Mr S any information  about  his 
expenditure. 
So I have gone on to look at what QuickQuid likely would have found  if it had carried out the checks  I 
consider to have been proportionate in the circumstances  of Mr S particular loan applications  from 
loan 4.
I have been sent Mr S personal credit file dated April 2017 and copies of his bank statements. From  
the credit file I am able to see the recorded entries back to April 2011. 
Loans 4 and 5 
Mr S applied for Loan 4 in March 2011, three months after repaying Loan 3. I think  that as this was 
the fourth loan within a few months, then ordinarily I would have thought that QuickQuid ought  to have 
checked Mr S regular expenditure, outgoings and whether he had any other short term loan (STL) 
liability. But in view of the huge alteration in Mr S net income declaration, I think  that QuickQuid ought 
to have verified that as well.
I do not think  that QuickQuid  did that, and I do not think that the proportionate checks  I would have 
expected it to have carried out were done in these particular  circumstances for Mr S. 
Mr S bank statement  copies he has sent to us commence on 27 April 2011 and so I am not able to 
see exactly what  his financial circumstances were like in March 2011. The later bank statements  
show me that Mr S was in receipt of what was then called Job Seekers Allowance (JSA) to assist  him 
as he was unemployed. So I asked Mr S about this. He has confirmed he was made  redundant in 
December 2010. So I think that Mr S was unemployed  in March  2011 and its likely he was receiving  
the same sort of JSA in February and in March to that received  in April 2011.  
Its noticeable that Mr S applied  for Loan 5 within eleven days of Loan 4. So the reality is that Mr S 
had applied  for £100  in a single monthly period. At least I would have expected the same checks  for 
Loan 5 as I have outlined that I would  have expected for Loan 4. Not least because  it was the second 
loan within days but also because of the income recording  issue I have  outlined earlier.    
I think  its likely that Mr S income was low as he has told me he was out of work and I can see from 
later statements that he was getting JSA. This was £135 approximately every two weeks and equated 
to about £292 monthly. 
I have outlined what I would  have  expected  QuickQuid to have done before  approving these  two 
loans. Its clear it did not do that. And even  if it had verified his income  and received the true picture, I 
do not think that it would have considered it to have been a responsible lending decision where  Mr S 
would have been repaying either Loan 4 or 5 using  about 25% of his income.  So I think it would  have 
been clear  Mr S was not able to afford these loans. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr S complaint about Loans 4 and 5. 
Ref: DRN96391047Loans 6 and 7 
By the time Mr S was applying for his sixth loan in June 2011 I do think that as QuickQuid had been 
receiving applications from him for 10 months then it ought to have  verified Mr S income, checked his 
outgoings and his regular  expenditure  and also whether he had other STL. In other words, carry out a 
comprehensive review  of his circumstances.  And with the high income figure on its records, a proper 
review likely would have prompted  the question why someone with such a large income kept returning 
for relatively small loan sums. 
So I do not think that QuickQuid carried  out this full review  of Mr S circumstances because  if it had it 
would have realised that Mr S was not working  and received no income apart from the JSA I have 
mentioned earlier. This was £135 approximately every two weeks and equated to about  £292 
monthly. 
I can see from Mr S statements that he had other STL liabilities. And Mr S very modest drawings 
from the account mainly were at food shops. So although I can see that he may have needed some 
extra cash, I can also see that Mr S was not in a position  to afford this loan. His account  was in 
overdraft and he was incurring  unarranged  overdraft fees regularly. And those fees were  keeping  Mr 
S in an overdraft status which in turn meant that additional fees were incurred. I am planning to 
uphold Mr S complaint for Loan 6.
I come  to the same provisional  decision  in relation to Loan  7 and for the same reasons, because  in 
August 2011  when Mr S applied for Loan 7 he had not received any income or JSA. Proportionate  
checks would have revealed this. Instead,  QuickQuid had information  that Mr S was earning over 
£6,000 a month  and so the loan was approved. Proper checks  would have revealed  he was not in a 
position to afford this loan. 
I am planning  to uphold Loans 6 and 7.
Loans 8 to 10 
I would have  expected QuickQuid to have done the same proportionate checks for Loans 8 to 10 as I 
have outlined  for Loans  6 and 7. 
Mr S applied for Loan 8 on 14 October 2011  and his income which credited his account  on 28 
September 2011 was just under £1,192. This was a new job and so I do take into account that Mr S 
had debts to cover  which had built up over the previous  months of being  long term unemployed. This 
likely caused his overdraft  of about £230  and as it was unarranged he had to pay relatively  high fees. 
Mr S personal credit file covers this period and I can see that he had a default  with a loan company  
on 10 September 2011  for over £400. This account had commenced in March 2010 and so its likely 
that Mr S had been in arrears leading  up to the default  date and likely during the period  he was 
unemployed. 
And Mr S had more outgoings at this stage although I do not think  that he had any outstanding STL 
debts at the time. 
If QuickQuid had carried out the full review I would have expected  it to have carried  out then its likely  
these points would have been revealed. And it would have led QuickQuid to realise that he was 
unlikely able to afford Loan 8. I am planning to uphold Loan 8.
Ref: DRN96391048Loan 9 was applied  for in December 2011, a couple of weeks after repaying  Loan 8. It was for £200 
which was double the amount Mr S had asked  for in October  2011.  Loan 10 was larger again for £250 
on 28 January 2012. The approved Loan 10 for £250 credited his account a day or so before £250 
debited his bank account to pay QuickQuid the balance  on Loan 9. So overall I think that this was an 
indication that Mr S was borrowing to repay borrowing.  Having considered Mr S financial  situation 
overall and reviewed his statements and credit  file, then I think that Mr S was not in a position  to 
repay Loans 9 and 10.
I am planning  to uphold Mr S complaint for Loans 9 and 10. 
the impact of the loans on Mr S.
Mr S has explained that the loans, and in particular the way he was chased for the repayments, had 
made his life very uncomfortable. I empathise with this. Money troubles are very difficult to bear. 
Mr S has sent me a photograph of the pile of letters he has told me are from QuickQuid and another 
lender chasing debts.  This pile looks to be several centimetres in height and demonstrates that he 
had received a lot of letters. 
I have read the emails  QuickQuid has sent to me and I can see that after Loan 17 was overdue Mr S 
was emailed every few days until March 2013 after which  QuickQuid  has informed me that the debt 
was passed to a third party.  The sum outstanding was over £1,300.  
QuickQuid has said that: 
However, at no point  did you notify us of any financial detriment or financial hardship. Had 
you alerted  us to your difficult financial situation, we would have put you in hardship status, 
as is our process. We then would have frozen additional fees and interest while we worked 
with you to find an affordable repayment option.
I am not able to attribute to QuickQuid alone the troubles Mr S may have had in general in relation to 
his debt and other parties debt collections practices. But this photograph plus the emails  I have seen 
that were sent to Mr S do lead me to think that they exacerbated an already uncomfortable situation. 
In the circumstances I am planning to award a sum to Mr S because  I think  that he likely suffered 
distress and inconvenience  by the high contact  levels about the debt.  And as I do not think  that 
QuickQuid should have given Mr S the loan which  caused the debt and led to this distress and 
inconvenience, then I consider it directly  linked and so an award is appropriate to compensate him. 
I am planning  to award the sum of £200. 
putting things  right
Because QuickQuid should not have given Mr S the loans  he took, its not right that Mr S should have 
to pay interest  or charges on these, or have  them  affect his credit file in a negative way. Then I am 
planning to direct  that QuickQuid does as follows:
honour its commitment to put things right as it has offered in relation  to Loans  11 to 17 
including the write off of the principal balance  of Loan 17; and
refund any interest and charges already  paid by Mr S in respect of Loans 4 to 10 as well as 
those included in the offer for Loans 11 to 17; and     
apply 8% simple  interest  per year to any interest and charges refunded from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  payment information about the loans from Mr S credit file; and 
pay to Mr S a sum of £200  for distress  and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest and it must give Mr S a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
end of extract
Ref: DRN9639104