complaint
Miss H complains that CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading as Peachy) gave her loans irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
December 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be upheld  in part. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H hasnt responded to my provisional decision.  However, Peachy has replied and confirms  it 
is happy to accept the proposed decision and redress.
In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the provisional  conclusions that I reached. 
It follows that I partially uphold Miss Hs complaint  and Peachy needs to pay her some 
compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Peachy shouldve agreed to provide to Miss H any of loans two, five,
six and seven - and so it should:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Miss H on loans two, five, six and seven;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Hs credit file in relation to loans  two, five 
and six;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about
loan seven is negative. So, all entries about loan seven should be removed from Miss
Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I partially  
uphold Miss Hs complaint  and direct CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading as Peachy) to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9720063 EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss H complains  that CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading  as Peachy) gave her loans 
irresponsibly.
Background
This complaint has been  brought to us by a third party company on behalf of Miss H but, for ease,  I will 
refer simply to Miss H in this decision.
Miss H borrowed seven  loans from Peachy between June 2015  and July 2016.  The first six loans were  
payday loans with a single repayment, and the final loan was scheduled for repayment via monthly  
instalments over around 11 months.
Details of the loans are as follows:
Loan No Amount Date lent Date repaid Term Repayment
1 £90 12.6.15 24.6.15 17 days £102
2 £500 24.6.15 1.7.15 30 days £620
3 £90 10.7.15 18.7.15 18 days £102
4 £120 10.9.15 12.9.15 15 days £134
5 £150 2.10.15 21.10.15 17 days £170
6 £100 22.12.15 31.12.15 16 days £112
7 £620 11.5.16 15.7.16 325 days £118
Miss H complains  that Peachy gave her numerous  loans without carrying  out any affordability 
checks when she had low disposable income  and was stuck in a cycle of borrowing  via payday  
loans.
Peachy feels  that it did undertake proper checks - it asked her for details  of her income, monthly  
expenditure and employment status. It also asked her a number of questions about whether she was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator didnt feel that Peachy had been wrong  to provide the first loan, but did consider that 
loans two to seven shouldnt have been given. Peachy doesnt  agree and has asked  that an 
ombudsman review the complaint   specifically in relation to loans two, three,  four and seven.
Because both parties havent agreed the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website.
Peachy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could  
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Peachy should fairly  and 
reasonably have done  more  to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN9720063the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing may signal  that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish whether Miss H 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  that this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting 
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.
Ref: DRN9720063K821x#15So it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator felt that loans two to seven shouldnt have been given.  Peachy has responded to ask 
specifically that an ombudsman  make a decision  in respect of loans  two to four, and loan seven. As 
such, I will review this complaint on the basis both parties agree
that loans five and six should be upheld.
Loan one
I agree with the adjudicator  that, given  the checks Peachy undertook  coupled with Miss Hs 
declared circumstances, it wasnt  wrong to provide  loan one.
Loan two
Loan two was for £500 and, under the loan agreement, it was to be repaid after 30 days  with a single 
payment. Miss H had declared her monthly income  to be £1,400 and that her total monthly  
expenditure was £700. I think  that the loan repayment of £620 required for loan two constituted a 
significant proportion  of her monthly income, to the point where I consider its more likely  than not 
she wouldve  found it difficult to make the repayment in a sustainable  manner. As such, I dont think  
Peachy shouldve  given loan two.
Loan three
Whilst loan two was made available to Miss H for 30 days, she opted to repay it early, after seven  
days, which  resulted in a reduced repayment being required at £528. It was nine days after this that 
Miss H applied for loan three, which was for a substantially lower sum of £90 for 18 days.
My view that Peachy was wrong to give loan two is because  I think the original repayment amount 
required was so significant in relation to Miss Hs income. However, she did repay  that loan early  
and, given the modest  value of this loan, I dont consider the circumstances of loan two necessarily 
mean that all subsequent loans should immediately  be considered similarly unaffordable.
I dont think that, at this relatively early stage in their relationship,  theres anything that shouldve 
led Peachy  to question  what Miss H was telling it about  her finances. Equally  I dont see 
anything that I think shouldve caused Peachy to suspect  that she was
experiencing financial difficulties. In these  circumstances I dont think it was wrong to provide loan 
three.
Loan four
Miss H repaid  loan three  earlier than scheduled, after eight days. There was then a gap of almost 
two months before she applied for loan four, at £120 repayable after 15 days. This was Miss Hs 
fourth loan in three months but, here again, it was for a relatively low amount and a short term. I 
havent seen anything that leads me to suggest that Peachy ought  to have done  more than it did 
before approving this loan.  I dont think it was wrong  to provide loan four.
Loan seven
Loan seven was made  in May 2016,  over four months after the previous loan had been repaid. 
Whereas all prior loans had been payday loans, this was an instalment loan repayable  over 
almost 11 months.
I accept  Peachys contention that the 12 repayments attaching to the loan did not, individually and in 
themselves, represent a significant proportion of Miss Hs declared  income.  But I share  our 
Ref: DRN97200635adjudicators view that the pattern of borrowing thatd been established by this point suggested Miss 
H had become dependent upon short term loans. I say this because:
this was her seventh  loan in 11 months;
repayment of loan five had been  deferred by Miss H;
there hadnt been any substantive  and sustained reduction  in the amounts she was borrowing  
 indeed, loan seven was the largest amount she borrowed;
I dont think that the gap between loans  six and seven was sufficiently long to constitute a 
break in the chain of borrowing.
In all of these  circumstances I dont believe Peachy shouldve given loan seven.
Putting things right   proposed redress
I dont currently think  Peachy shouldve agreed to provide to Miss H any of loans two, five, six and 
seven - and so it should:
refund all interest and charges paid by Miss H on loans two, five, six and seven;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Hs credit file in relation to loans  two, five and 
six;
the number of loans  taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about loan 
seven is negative.  So, all entries about loan seven  should be removed from Miss Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest.  Peachy must  give 
Miss H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN9720063