K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the benefits that he has received from his National Mutual Life
pension plan that is now administered by ReAssure UK Services  Limited (referred to from
now on as ReAssure).
In particular Mr P has complained about:
The apparent  lack of any demutualisation  benefits when he wanted to take benefits.
The way that ReAssure is applying final bonuses to his pension plan.
The fact that ReAssure is costing the Revalued Guaranteed  Minimum Pension
(RGMP) using current annuity  rates rather than the rates that are set out in the 
policy.
The way the annuity guarantee is being applied by ReAssure.
The fact that the Guaranteed  Cash Sum on his policy has fallen from £24,506.00  to
£24,298.30.
background
On 27 August 1987 Mr P transferred the value of the deferred benefits  that he had accrued 
in a former  employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a new with-profits  pension  
policy with National Mutual  Life (now part of ReAssure).
The new policy  guaranteed to provide two benefits on Mr Ps 65th birthday. These were a 
Basic Pension A of £375.14 p.a. and a Basic Pension B of £1249.27p.a.
Basic Pension A increased once in payment at a rate of 5% p.a.c. whilst Basic Pension  B
did not increase  once  in payment.
The policy document states  that at the Normal Retirement  Date  the policyholder  would  
receive an amount  equal to Basic Pension  A plus Basic Pension B together with any 
bonuses allotted  thereto  or if greater the Guaranteed Minimum  Pension.
The policy document set out that, if at retirement the benefit from the policy  exceeded the
GMP benefit, any excess could  be commuted  for other benefits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my initial findings in my provisional decision issued on 30 April 2018.  In this I stated 
that I was minded to reject the complaint and to make no award.  A copy of this document is 
attached and forms part of this my final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why the guaranteed cash sum payable  under the 
policy had changed  slightly.  
On 17 May 2018 Mr P raised a number of further questions  about how the value of his policy  
had been determined as being worth around £95,000. Mr P considered that the value of the 
policy should be greater.
Ref: DRN99289842Mr P has argued that the Principles and Practices of Financial Management  (PPFM) 
specifically states  that final bonus should  be included as an allotted  bonus. So that the 
guaranteed benefits should be increased  by more than just the annual  bonuses declared. 
However, there is no guarantee that a final bonus would be added  to a policy.  The PPFM 
states that final bonuses are used to uplift the guaranteed  policy  benefits to the amount  
payable under the policy. A market value  adjustment can be applied to reduce  the amount 
payable under a policy  to reflect adverse experience that has yet to be incorporated into final 
bonus rates.
Secondly Mr P noted the policy documents state  that the benefits and bonuses  under the 
policy can be converted to cash using the cash rates in the policy  rather the policy must be 
converted to cash that I set out in my provisional  decision. I agree that this is indeed the 
case and I apologise  for the wording used in the provisional decision.
Mr P has also argued that:
1.The costs of any guaranteed benefits  should  be met by the estate.
2.When the policy was valued at the time that National  Mutual Life was taken over the 
guarantees in the policy would have been  costed allowing  for contemporaneous  
assumptions regarding  interest  and mortality rates. The policy  would have had a 
policy reserve value in excess  of the Asset Share Value  (ASV)  on an accumulated  
premium basis.
If this is not reflected in the value  that he is getting  at NRD then is it not the case  that 
other policyholders  have  received less than they should have?
Mr P accepted that there  was no separate demutualisation bonus  payable.
On 13 June 2018 ReAssure Limited  replied to Mr Ps comments  agreeing that the retirement 
fund was approximately the ASV of the policy and that this could  provide  more than the 
minimum annuity that was guaranteed  in the policy. This is why ReAssure considered  that it 
was appropriate  to use current annuity rates when costing annuities.  Had the benefits with 
bonuses just been provided  Mr P would have received a lower  level of pension benefits.
It is important  to realise that ReAssures estate reflects actuarial surplus that has been built 
up in past. It is for the Board of Directors of ReAssure to decide how they wish to use the 
surplus funds that exist in the with-profits fund.  This is referred to as the estate.  Distributing 
all of the estate  now would not be fair on future generations of policyholders  and this is why 
the determination of the ASV by the senior actuaries is of key importance to the directors  
when considering the levels and types  of bonuses  to declare. 
Reassure has pointed out that the policy document does not state that the minimum annuity 
guaranteed in the policy must be increased by a final bonus.
Whilst I am fully aware that Mr P believes that he has not received the full value  of his policy 
I am happy (given  the explanations that I have  received)  to say that there is indeed no 
evidence that Mr Ps policy has been  unfairly treated by Reassure Limited and I am unable  
to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN99289843The level of bonuses  that is declared each  year on a policy  is a commercial decision that the 
directors of ReAssure take following advice from their senior actuaries.  This is a decision 
that I as an ombudsman cannot  investigate.
The Board of Directors will try to ensure to that all policyholders are treated equitably  and will 
on occasions retain some of the available actuarial surplus to boost  reserves  to allow the 
bonus rates  to be smoothed in the future.
On some occasions the Board may decide to release  surplus from the reserves  to enhance 
the bonuses that would have otherwise  have  been declared. Over recent years it is clear  that 
the increasing cost of providing generous guaranteed annuity rates in policies that have 
been issued in the past has resulted in lower bonuses being declared on with-profits policies. 
I note that the regulator analyses the statutory insurance company returns that are submitted 
to it every year and also arranges  for regular inspections to take place to ensure that with-
profits funds  are being managed properly.
It is the case that with-profits funds in the past have held a significant  percentage of its 
assets in investments such  as equities  and properties  in order to potentially generate higher 
investment returns and therefore  potentially higher bonuses. 
However, following  the collapse of Equitable Life, all with-profits  funds are now required to 
hold a much  higher percentage  of their assets in lower risk investments such  as fixed 
interest securities to cover the cost of any guarantees that have been given in the past. This 
high percentage  in fixed interest investments would be expected to result in lower 
investment returns and lower bonuses  to policyholders in the future.
The regulator now also requires  every  with-profits provider  to publish a document  entitled 
Principles and Practices of Financial Management.  This sets out how they administer their 
with-profits fund. I note that Mr P has been  provided a copy of this document from ReAssure.
I am sorry  that Mr P believes that the way that ReAssure is managing the with-profits fund 
and his policy is inappropriate  and that he is being disadvantaged by receiving lower benefits  
than he considers he is entitled  to.
However, having referred the matter to the experts  at ReAssure, I am of the opinion  that 
there is no evidence  that ReAssure  is managing  the with-profits fund and Mr Ps policy  
inappropriately or incorrectly.
There is also no evidence that the independent With-Profits Committee (which has a majority 
of external appointees) has expressed any concerns  as to how ReAssure is managing the 
with-profits fund and the with-profits policies it has issued.
Similarly I have  seen  no evidence that the regulator  has expressed any concerns as to the 
way that the with-profits  policyholders have been treated by ReAssure.
I am therefore unable  to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Reassure Limited and I make no award.
Ref: DRN99289844Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99289845copy of provisional decision issued 30 April  2018
complaint
Mr P has complained about the benefits that he has received from his National  Mutual Life
pension plan that is now administered by ReAssure  UK Services Limited (referred to from
now on as ReAssure).
In particular Mr P has complained about:
The apparent lack of any demutualisation benefits  when he wanted to take benefits.
The way that ReAssure is applying  final bonuses to his pension plan.
The fact that ReAssure is costing the Revalued Guaranteed Minimum Pension
(RGMP) using current annuity rates rather than rates that are set out in the policy.
The way the annuity  guarantee  is being applied by ReAssure.
The fact that the Guaranteed  Cash Sum on his policy  has fallen from £24,506.00  to
£24,298.30.
Background
In August 1987 Mr P transferred the value of the deferred benefits that he had accrued in a
former employers occupational pension  scheme (OPS) to a new policy with National Mutual
Life (now  part of ReAssure).
The new policy guaranteed  to provide  two pensions on Mr Ps 65th birthday.  This was Basic
Pension A of £375.14 p.a. and Basic Pension B of £1249.27p.a.
Basic Pension  A increased once in payment at a rate of 5% p.a.c.  whilst pension  Benefit B
did not increase once  in payment.
The policy document stated  that at the Normal Retirement Date the policyholder  would
receive an amount equal to Basic Pension A plus Basic Pension B together with any
bonuses allotted thereto  or if greater the Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
The policy document set out that if at retirement the benefit from the policy exceeded the
GMP benefit that any excess  could be commuted for other  benefits  at retirement.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy was set up with National Mutual Life in 1987.
On 22 June 2001 it was announced that National Mutual Life was being bought  by another
business GE Capital in a deal worth £570 million. This it was stated  would generate windfalls
of at least £500 for its members. (These were to cost around £370 million).
The rest of the purchase price would be provided by a payment  of £200 million into the with-profits 
fund. This payment was to be used to support the with-profits fund and to enable the
business to declare larger  bonuses in future than it would otherwise have been able to do.
There was never  any intention  to provide separately identifiable demutualisation bonuses  on
each policy. I therefore do not uphold  this part of Mr Ps complaint against ReAssure.
It is a fact that due to further company consolidations in the life assurance industry  the policy
that Mr P took out with National Mutual Life is now administered by ReAssure.
Ref: DRN99289846ReAssure publishes and maintains documents that set out how it runs the with-profits fund of
National Mutual  Life as a separate sub fund. This document  is entitled the Principles and
Practices of Financial Management (PPFM). This document  is available on ReAssures
website. The business also publishes  a consumer friendly version  of the PPFM document
which is also available on its website. There is a version of the PPFM that covers the
benefits that were transferred in from National Mutual Life.
The policy document refers  to the fact that annual  bonuses will be added  to the plan every
year. In addition as explained in the PPFM and the consumer friendly PPFM a final bonus
can be declared. The aim of the final bonus is to increase the value of the benefits  from the
policy up to the asset share underlying the policy. If the actual asset share  was below the
value of the guaranteed benefits no final bonus would  be paid.
The asset share is calculated  as the actual premium paid into the fund rolled up with the net
investment returns achieved on the with-profits fund.
The actual level of bonuses that is applied to Mr Ps policy is agreed by the Board of
Directors of ReAssure acting upon the advice  of its senior  actuaries. The levels of final
bonuses may vary quarterly.
ReAssure like other with-profits providers has in place  an independent with-profits  committee
that is required to protect the interest of the with-profits members.  If the with-profits
committee has concerns  it must raise these with the business and then with the regulator.
There is no evidence  that the regulator has any concerns  over the way that ReAssure is
running the National  Mutual Life with-profits Sub fund.
Under the contract the guaranteed benefits  and annual  bonuses  declared are converted to
cash at the rates set out in the policy.
ReAssure also ensures  that Mr P receives a fair share of the with-profits fund. It is important
to note that in this case the share of the fund  basis provides the greatest value to Mr P.
If Mr Ps share of the with-profits  fund was increased  then other members in the with-profits
fund would have to receive less than they should.  It is the role of the actuaries  and the with -
profits committee to make sure that the with-profits policyholders are all treated fairly.
As in this case the value of Mr Ps policy is determined by using the share of the fund
approach (rather than by using the with-profits deferred annuity  benefits plus bonuses  and
cash conversion rates  set out in the policy) it is appropriate, in my opinion,  to use current
annuity rates  to secure the revalued GMP benefit.
ReAssure has explained why the Basic Cash Fund which  was shown as £24,506  in 1995
has been reduced to £24,298.30 in 2017. It has noted that the lower figure in 2017 was just
the current  cash value of the policy as at the date of calculation.
As I have seen no evidence that Mr P has been treated unfairly by ReAssure Limited  or that
the independent with-profits committee or the regulator has any concerns about how
ReAssure Limited is managing its with-profits fund I am minded to reject  this complaint and
to make no award.
my provisional  decision
I am minded  to reject this complaint against ReAssure  Limited and to make no award.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9928984