K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) gave her 
unsuitable advice  to invest in a with profits fund. 
Mrs C is being represented  by a Claims Management Company (CMC).  
background
In February 1999  Mrs C met with an adviser  from L&G. A personal  financial review was 
carried out. This showed that Mrs C was widowed and had about  £1,100  monthly income. 
She also had an existing term assurance  policy,  around £53,600 in a bank account as well 
as £56,000 in investment bonds. She had £4,800 in a TESSA and was happy to keep 
£10,000 as an emergency cash reserve. The notes of the meeting  indicate that Mrs C was 
looking to invest around £40,000 over the medium to long term in order to generate some 
capital growth. She was identified as having  a low to medium  attitude to risk, and had just 
under £200  disposable  income every  month  once outgoings and expenses  had been taken 
into account. 
L&G defined a low risk investor as someone  who was not prepared to take risks  with their 
investment. While a medium risk investor  meant  that they were prepared  to take some risk 
in the hope of a better return  on the investment in the future. 
As a result of the review,  the adviser discussed various options with Mrs C for her 
investment. These included:
Leaving the investment  in a national savings account.
PEPs
TESSAs
The adviser eventually  recommended  a with profits bond on the basis  that Mrs C had 
already invested  in this type of product  in the past, and it was in line with her attitude to risk 
given that it wouldnt  be as volatile as equity  investments. At the same time, it had the 
potential to generate  better growth than a deposit  or savings account.  
Mrs C eventually surrendered her bond in March 2006.
Mrs C, through the CMC, complained about  the advice L&G had provided in 2018. In short  
she said:
She was advised  to invest her money  too soon after her husbands death and she 
shouldve been given more time to come to terms with her loss. 
She was advised  to invest too much of her money. 
She was advised  to take too much risk with her money. In particular, the adviser  from 
L&G failed to establish her true attitude to risk and didnt  make it clear  that the return  
on the fund would be reliant  on bonuses  being  declared, and this might not happen. 
There was also no diversification given that all the money was placed in one bond.  
Alternative products  were not discussed  at the time and she wasnt allowed enough 
time to fully consider the advice  before being asked to invest  her money. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into her complaint. As the advice had been provided more  
than six years prior, he asked L&G if it would consent to this service  looking into it, which it 
Ref: DRN98933382did. The adjudicator then investigated  the complaint but didnt consider it should be upheld. 
In short,  he thought the advice L&G provided  was in line with Mrs Cs attitude to risk and 
designed to achieve the objective she discussed with the adviser. He thought Mrs C was 
familiar with this product, having invested  in it before, and the notes  of the meeting clearly 
showed that various alternatives were discounted by her. He also didnt consider it 
unaffordable given  that Mrs Cs emergency fund would cover her outgoings for over a year. 
Mrs C, through the CMC, didnt agree. In short, she said that this investment, combined with 
the other investments she held, mean that too much of her money was exposed  to risk. And 
given the low level of her disposable income,  she didnt feel this investment was affordable 
for her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for largely the same reasons. 
The notes of Mrs Cs meeting with the adviser  from L&G describe her objectives  and the 
experience she had with various investments. I think its clear that she felt comfortable 
investing in a with profits bond precisely because it offered  her what appeared to be the best 
option of achieving capital growth  without taking much risk with her money. The fact that she 
had ample cash reserves  and a variety  of other  investments  I think  supports the content of 
this documented  discussion. 
And Im not persuaded that there was a diversification risk to this particular investment. I 
think by its very nature,  the with profits  bond allowed Mrs C to be invested in a variety of 
different asset  classes and holdings, without her money being at risk of being  overly affected 
by sharp  changes in the values of individual investments  within the bond. The very nature of 
the with profits bond I think addressed one of Mrs Cs documented concerns which  was the 
volatility in equity investments, and I can see that the adviser only made this 
recommendation after discussing this particular concern with her. 
Ive considered the comments Mrs C has put forward  for why her overall portfolio of 
investments meant that too much of her money was exposed to risk, but Im not persuaded 
thats relevant  here. By the time Mrs C implemented the advice, she had around £90,000 
split between two with profits bonds,  with the rest held in savings accounts and other tax 
efficient wrappers. I think this was consistent  with the type of investor Mrs C was  namely  
one that was willing to take some risk with her money in order to achieve  some capital 
growth, but with her capital largely safe from sharp drops in value. 
Im also not persuaded by the argument  that her disposable income was too low for her to be 
able to afford tying up this money for the medium term.  I say this because  she had already 
explained that she was comfortable  with having  around £10,000  in emergency funds, and 
following L&Gs advice, she ended up with over £13,000  so over a years worth  of 
emergency funds  to cover her outgoings. Given the circumstances and the fact that she kept 
this particular investment  for 7 years, Im satisfied Mrs C was financially able to bear the 
risks of investing £40,000 in this particular bond. 
For the reasons  Ive given, Im persuaded L&Gs advice was suitable for Mrs C. So I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN98933383my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9893338