K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs M applied  for her card 
and PPI but Halifax has provided  a copy of the available paperwork. Mrs Ms credit  card 
application form had a separate section for PPI that has been ticked and signed separately 
to applying for the card itself by Mrs M. 
Mrs Ms representative has said that a x has been placed on the document indicating  where  
Mrs M should  sign and that due to this she may not have been aware what she was signing 
for. But I dont think it would be unusual for a representative to highlight areas of a form that 
requires a customers attention. Mrs M was also agreeing to an important financial 
commitment so I would  have expected her to have  read the document  before signing in 
agreement with it. With the above in mind I think Halifax made it clear  that Mrs M didnt have  
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs M has told us she was entitled to good  sick pay when she took the policy and could 
have relied on her husband for support. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs 
Ms sick pay and for longer than she would have  received full pay. And while  Mrs Ms 
husband would have wanted to help his ability to would have been dependent on his 
circumstances at the time, which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time she wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M and her representative has said including  that the rules 
suggest the complaint should  be one that is upheld. But I still think  Mrs M wouldve bought 
the policy if she had been given clearer information.  So these comments  dont  change  my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN97989712This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M if it hasnt done  so already now that Ive issued 
my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9798971