K820x#14the complaint
Mr F says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him.  
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr F complained  to TSB that the 
problems meant he hadnt  been  able to make  some payments to people hed normally pay  
and he also said he lost out on a holiday because he wasnt able to transfer  a payment for it.
After looking into Mr Fs complaint TSB issued its final response in October  2018.  It 
apologised for the problems  hed had making  payments  and for the calls hed had to make  
chasing up his complaint.  TSB paid Mr F £225 for distress  and inconvenience  and £50 for 
his out of pocket  expenses.
Mr F asked  TSB to re-open his complaint but didnt  get any further response, so he referred  
it to us. He said he was broadly happy with the payment TSB made  but he also wanted it 
to pay £600 to cover his share of the holiday hed lost out on. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  TSBs payment of £275  was fair for the 
issues Mr F had raised. She didnt think TSB should pay another £600 to Mr F, because he 
hadnt provided any evidence of that loss. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this outcome and made a complaint to one of our managers. He also 
explained that he hasnt got any evidence about the loss of the holiday and wont be able to 
get any. 
As Mr Fs complaint with TSB couldnt  be settled informally,  its been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I wont be asking TSB to pay another £600  to Mr F. I know that wont  be the 
outcome he wants.  But Ill explain why Ive come to that outcome, so Mr F understands what  
our role is in his complaint and what his next steps are.
TSB issued  its final response to Mr Fs complaint, giving  its answer  and paying him 
compensation for the issues hed raised. It said that, if Mr F wasnt  happy with that answer,  
he could ask this service to look into his complaint.  TSB wouldnt  normally  be expected  to 
carry on looking into a complaint after that point.
Mr F referred his complaint to us, but he thinks we shouldve stopped looking into it once he 
told us he didnt have  any evidence. He feels hes now lost out on the chance  to get TSB to 
look at his complaint  again. But as Ive explained  above, Mr F had reached the end of TSBs  
complaint process  and we wouldnt expect TSB to reconsider his complaint at that stage. 
Mr F asked  us to look into his complaint and thats what weve  done  and Im satisfied  that 
the answer we gave  was fair in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN93110282Ive listened to the calls between our adjudicators and Mr F, to get a picture of the loss hes 
claiming and how he says it happened. From what Mr Fs told us, he was originally booked 
to go on a holiday in the UK with other people. The holiday was booked privately by two of 
those other  people. Mr F was in a relationship with one of those people, but he isnt now.  
Mr F has told us he paid his share  of the booked holiday in instalments, either by paying  
cash to his then partner or by transferring money  to her  which she would then put towards 
the holiday. He says that on one occasion he didnt have any cash on him and, because of 
TSBs IT problems,  he wasnt able to make a transfer either.  He thinks this was his last or 
nearly last instalment for the holiday but, because he couldnt make the payment, the group 
lost the whole holiday and all the money  theyd paid for it. 
Mr F says they then paid for a replacement holiday instead, which  was cheaper  to book but 
cost more in spending money.  So he wants TSB to pay his share  of the cost of the 
replacement holiday and the extra spending,  which he estimates as £600. 
As evidence  of the original holiday booking and the costs, Mr F has referred us to his bank 
statements. Hes told us all the cash withdrawals or transfers he made  to his then partner 
would have been his payments for the holiday.  But he hasnt told us when  the holiday 
payments started. And while  I can see there  are cash  withdrawals and transfers  I cant be 
sure these are all, and only, for the holiday.  I can also see there are times when Mr Fs then 
partner transfers  money to him, which doesnt  seem to fit with him paying her for the holiday,  
or paying for a replacement holiday.  
I can see from the statements that Mr F did go to the destination he says the original holiday 
was booked for. But this isnt enough, by itself, to show that this was a replacement  for an 
earlier, cancelled, holiday. So I cant rely on Mr Fs bank statements alone  as evidence of 
the loss hes claiming.  And Mr F hasnt been  able to give us any other evidence or any clear 
information about the cancelled holiday either.  He cant  show  that it was booked or when  for, 
how much  he paid towards it or that it was cancelled with no refund. 
Mr F also hasnt  given  us any details about the amount he was trying  to transfer, or when he 
was trying to do so. Importantly, he also hasnt  been able to show that the holiday was 
cancelled solely and as a direct result  of him being unable to transfer money  on that one 
occasion. 
Its clear Mr F feels strongly about his complaint and hes frustrated that he doesnt now 
have access to any evidence to support his claim. But, after taking everything into account,  I 
cant reasonably  direct  TSB to pay Mr F £600 when theres no direct  or indirect evidence to 
support that loss. I think the £275  TSB has already paid Mr F is fair compensation for the 
problems he experienced and the impact they had.  
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already paid Mr F a fair amount to resolve his 
complaint. So I make  no order or award. 
My decision  is the final stage of our process,  so we wont be able to look into Mr Fs 
complaint any further. I remind Mr F that if he isnt happy with my decision he doesnt have 
to accept it  in which case it wont be legally binding on him, or on TSB.
Ref: DRN93110283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311028