K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc declined their application to 
extend the term of their mortgage unfairly.  Theyre also unhappy  they were  led to believe the 
application would be agreed.
background 
Mr and Mrs S have  an interest only mortgage that came to the end of its term in June 2018. 
In 2017, Mr and Mrs S spoke to RBS about the possibility of extending the term, and 
completed an application for a three-year extension.  Mrs S is in employment and whilst Mr S 
is also doing some  part-time work, hes also studying to become a trained solicitor. He plans  
to be fully qualified  earning a higher income in 2021.  On this basis, they wanted to extend  
their term for three years after which they could  review  their financial situation, and could 
potentially afford a repayment  mortgage. They also said they were  expecting to receive an 
inheritance shortly following probate being  received.  The advisor at RBS gave assurances to 
Mr and Mrs S that whilst the application  would need to be considered  by the underwriters,  
they shouldnt worry.
The application was processed and a mortgage  illustration was sent to Mr and Mrs S. 
However, the underwriters declined  the application.  They said that extending the term on a 
capital repayment  basis was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs S based on what  theyd seen  as 
they didnt have all the proof of income they had asked for. They  also had concerns about Mr 
and Mrs S credit file.
Mr and Mrs S complained to RBS about the application. They were unhappy theyd been led 
to believe the extension wouldnt be a problem and didnt think  it was fair the application was 
declined, given their payment  history and situation. RBS explained  that they couldnt agree 
to a three-year  extension, but they offered a 12-month extension subject to proof of income 
being provided, to give Mr and Mrs S the opportunity to seek  financial advice and agree a 
plan to repay the mortgage. They also paid Mr and Mrs S £300  to apologise for not 
managing their expectations  about the likelihood of them accepting the application.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service.  They were also unhappy  about  how the 
12-month extension  had been handled  and the accuracy of the mortgage offer theyd been 
sent. Our investigator  looked into things and explained that she didnt think RBS had 
declined the application to extend  the mortgage  term unfairly.  She agreed RBS could  have 
handled the application better but felt £300  was enough to compensate  Mr and Mrs S for 
this. As the 12-month extension offered was ending, she also asked RBS to allow Mr and 
Mrs S another six months to consider their options to repay the mortgage.
RBS agreed to give Mr and Mrs S six months  before taking  further action to recover the 
mortgage, as long as they provided evidence that the house was on the market, or they had 
assurances from other lenders about  a mortgage. The investigator  felt this was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators  opinion. They  wanted  a longer extension 
agreed so that they could review their position again once Mr Ss employment plans have 
been realised.  So the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
Ref: DRN97635192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S mortgage term ended in June 2018.  The notes from the latest  mortgage  offer 
suggest that Mr and Mrs S intended to repay the mortgage at the end of the term by selling 
an investment property. Mr and Mrs S are currently renting out this property, and have  said 
that even if they do sell that property  theyll only have around £30,000 equity in it after 
repaying that mortgage. So its clear  their original repayment strategy  for this mortgage is no 
longer viable.
When Mr and Mrs S took their mortgage out with RBS in 2008, they agreed to repay  the full 
amount of capital after 10 years. So I think its important to note that RBS are not obliged  to 
extend the term of this borrowing any further. However, we would expect them  to consider 
any application or proposals  made  my Mr and Mrs S, and treat them fairly based on their 
individual circumstances.
Considering everything  that Mr and Mrs S have said,  it seems  their preference is to extend 
the term of the mortgage until 2021 on an interest-only basis.  This way they can maintain  the 
existing monthly payments, which they are finding  affordable, and review their financial 
position in a couple of years time when Mr S hopes to have completed  his studies and be in 
a better-paid job.
Whilst Mr and Mrs S no longer have a repayment  strategy in place to repay  the mortgage, 
the rules set by the regulator - the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  do allow  for the bank 
to consider extending the term of the mortgage  on an interest-only  basis,  if it would be in Mr 
and Mrs S best interests. But based on their specific  circumstances, Im not persuaded an 
extension on interest-only would be in their best interests. 
I appreciate Mr S has a plan for his studies, and he hopes to be in a better-paid job by 2021, 
but there are no guarantees that this will happen. It seems the inheritance he originally 
spoke of is no longer  available,  and their second property has its own interest-only mortgage 
with little equity  in it. Mr and Mrs S say theyd like to apply for a repayment mortgage in 2021  
when their incomes are more likely  to support this. But there arent any guarantees that an 
application for this would be accepted, especially in light of the concerns  RBS have about Mr 
and Mrs S credit file. So Im not persuaded there are enough assurances  to show that Mr 
and Mrs S would  be in a substantially  improved  position to repay their mortgage in three 
years time than they are now. Considering all of this, Im not persuaded it would have been 
in Mr and Mrs S best interests to extend the mortgage term for another three years.
RBS also considered the option of extending  the term on a capital repayment basis,  but 
found this wouldnt  be affordable for Mr and Mrs S. I understand that Mr S is studying in 
order to eventually earn a higher income  but for RBS to ensure theyre lending responsibly,  
they need to be comfortable Mr and Mrs S could afford a repayment  mortgage on their 
existing income. Im satisfied RBS  decision not to lend on a capital  repayment  basis  was 
fair, based on the information they had at the time.  However, if Mr and Mrs S were now able 
to provide more  information about  their income,  or their income changes  I would expect 
RBS to consider  this.
Mr and Mrs S are also unhappy that once RBS offered a 12-month  term extension,  the 
mortgage offer was unclear and inaccurate. They refused to sign and agree to it on this 
Ref: DRN97635193basis. I do think this offer could have  been  clearer, and RBS could have explained things 
better. But the extension was only until June 2019, which passed whilst the complaint was 
with our service to consider. During this time,  and since, despite not receiving Mr and Mrs S 
agreement to the offer  RBS took no further recovery  action in order to try to redeem  the 
mortgage. So regardless of how the offer was handled, Im not persuaded its caused any 
detriment to Mr and Mrs S position in relation  to the mortgage.
RBS paid Mr and Mrs S £300 to apologise for not managing their expectations about the 
potential outcome of their application. Looking at the emails  the RBS adviser sent Mr and 
Mrs S  I agree that they were given the impression the application wouldnt be a problem. 
Although the adviser did still explain that the application would still need to be considered by 
the underwriters,  I do think RBS could have communicated  more  clearly here  and not 
given any assurances  about the outcome of the application. But considering everything,  Im 
satisfied £300  is sufficient compensation to apologise for this.
 
RBS have agreed to allow  Mr and Mrs S another six months to look into their options and 
confirm how theyll repay the mortgage. Theyve asked for evidence of their plans  which I 
think is reasonable. Mr and Mrs S have  had over a year since the original term of their 
mortgage ended, and six months should be a sufficient  period of time to seek  independent 
financial advice, and agree a plan with RBS about how theyll  repay the mortgage.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. This is 
subject to The Royal Bank of Scotland plc honouring its offer of a further six-month  
extension from the date of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9763519