K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  failed to process a foreign 
payment which  resulted  in a loss to his business.
background
Mr S says he tried to make a payment to a company in India that he had previously sent 
money to for a website build. He says the payment didnt go through  as NatWest  didnt  give 
the intermediary bank the correct details in time Mr S says he lost the contract with the 
company in India  and would like compensation between £25,000  and £30,000.
NatWest initially said it had provided  the correct  information but the payment was returned 
and its not responsible for that. It then looked  again  at what took place and now accepts it 
provided the required information  to the final destination bank and not the intermediary bank 
as required. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
NatWest had made a mistake but had fairly offered to pay for any exchange loss as a result 
of the money  being returned.  The investigator didnt think there  was any guarantee that even 
if NatWest had provided the required  information  that the transaction would have gone  
through and so didnt think NatWest should pay the compensation Mr S would like. The 
investigator recommended that NatWest should pay £150 compensation.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says hes put about £100,000 into his business and would 
have received a significant return if the website had been set up correctly. He also says the 
mistake has had a negative affect on his repudiation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
view as the investigator and for the same  reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed  by my 
decision.
There is no question here that NatWest  made  a mistake and didnt  give the required 
information to the intermediary bank. I have no doubt Mr S was concerned about what took 
place and spend some  time trying to find out what was going  on. And I accept he would have 
been frustrated  and concerned to find out what  had taken  place  and that NatWest initially 
denied making  the mistake.  But Im satisfied  that NatWest has now accepted  responsibility  
for what took place  and has fairly  refunded the exchange rate loss to Mr S so that hes been 
given back the same amount of money  he tried to send to India.
The key question is the level of compensation. I appreciate that Mr S says he spend a 
significant amount  of money setting up his business  and that his future returns were affected 
by what took place. But Ive come to the overall  view that it would be unfair to order  NatWest  
to pay compensation  for that. I say that as there  would have been no guarantee that the 
intermediary bank would have authorised the payment even if NatWest had given it the 
required information regardless  if it approved a previous  transaction. I also dont think it 
possible to say what impact NatWests mistake had on Mr Ss business and why the 
relatively short period  of time that Mr Ss money was held had such an impact  on his 
business.
Ref: DRN98612152I agree  with the investigator that NatWest should pay £150  compensation in addition to the 
exchange rate difference that its already paid Mr S. Im satisfied that amount fairly reflects 
what took place  and the time (about two months) that it took for Mr Ss money to be 
refunded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  National Westminster  Bank  Plc to 
pay Mr S £150 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861215