K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc made  changes to its online banking  which  meant it 
was no longer compatible with his chosen internet  browser.
background
Mr P moved his main  account to Clydesdale and his linked  accounts.  He says shortly  after 
the switch Clydesdale brought out a new website which wasnt compatible with his internet 
browser. Mr P uses this browser  as he says its the most secure and the only one he will use 
due to his security concerns. He also says that telephone banking  is not appropriate for him 
because the daily limits dont allow him to operate his accounts  in the way he needs to.
Clydesdale accepts there is a compatibility  problem with its new online banking  and Mr Ps 
chosen internet  browser. Its suggested  that Mr P considers a different browser  but has paid 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused pursuing his 
complaint.
Mr P didnt accept that view and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked  into the 
complaint and thought she couldnt  fairly ask Clydesdale to change its website to make  it 
compatible with Mr Ps chosen  browser. She also didnt think  she could ask Clydesdale  to 
speed up its process to ensure compatibility and its suggestion that Mr P use a different 
browser was reasonable. Overall  the investigator thought the compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and says he should be paid £500  compensation. He says we 
havent considered the impact this problem  has had on his relationship with other banks and 
building societies. He also says Clydesdale shouldve done  more to ensure  compatibility  to a 
major internet browser and that he told it he was making his Clydesdale  account his main  
hub.
Mr P also raises concerns  about other banks and their processes and that if it wasnt for 
Clydesdale then these  problems wouldnt have arisen. To illustrate, he told us about one 
particular payment of £50,000 which was made late due to the problems and hes also set 
out how, on at least  one occasion, he completely lost track of his finances. He also tells us 
that he believes the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is ultimately  responsible for how 
banks and building societies are treating customers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
conclusions that Clydesdale  has paid a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation and 
that I cant fairly ask it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls Mr P has made  to us and I appreciate how frustrated he is about 
whats happened and his wider concerns about banks and building societies and the role of 
the FCA. I also understand his security concerns and the difficulties he has experienced in 
opening new accounts as well as the effect the problems  had on his transfer of the £50,000 
to another business.
I know Mr P understands that we are not the regulator of banks and building  societies and so 
I cant look at the wider issues he raises with the banking industry and the FCAs role.
Ref: DRN91510792There is no real doubt here that Clydesdale made changes  to its website which  meant 
Mr Ps browser was no longer compatible  with it. I have no doubt  that caused  Mr P 
inconvenience and I accept that telephone banking wasnt a solution  for him. But Im 
satisfied Clydesdale  has accepted there was a problem and offered what  I think was a 
reasonable solution  namely  using  a different browser until the problem could be sorted  out. 
I appreciate Mr P didnt  wish to change  his browser but I think  that he was his choice. I also 
think the compensation that Clydesdale paid was fair and reasonable.
I dont think Clydesdale  could have anticipated  the problem and warned Mr P before he 
moved his main bank  account to it. I think it unlikely its advisors wouldve known that the 
approaching website changes were not compatible  with Mr Ps browser. I understand Mr Ps 
concern that the website changes hadnt been  tested for compatibility with a major internet 
browser. But I think those sorts of decisions and changes are for a business to make and for 
the reasons I have  explained  that we are not the regulator  I cant fairly interfere in those 
sorts of commercial decisions.
I can see that Mr P has now moved  his accounts to a new business and appreciate that 
move led to further problems. I appreciate Mr P says Clydesdale is responsible for those 
new problems but I disagree. Ive explained  that I think  Clydesdale  has offered a reasonable 
solution and dont think it can be held responsible for other banks or building societies 
processes. Mr P has explained why he thinks the FCA is ultimately responsible for the banks  
and building societies changing and, perhaps, tightening up their processes but Ive 
explained why I cant comment on that.
Overall I accept that Mr P has been  placed in a difficult position but I cant  fairly ask 
Clydesdale to do anything  further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9151079