K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that EUI Limited  unreasonably  increased  his premium on his motor  
policy when he changed address and then unfairly  charged him for cancelling  it. 
background
Mr N emailed EUI to say he had changed  address. EUI then looked at his premium and re-
rated it due to the change of address. It said it told him his premium would now be increased  
by £1,540.40. 
Mr N said he only discovered this when  it was taken out of his bank account.  He contacted 
EUI and ultimately  asked  it to cancel his policy. EUI charged him £104.50 in cancellation  
fees, which included  £49.50 for a standard mid-term cancellation fee, £5 to remove the 
ancillary and £50 standard cancellation fee for the telematics plug and drive. Mr N didnt 
want to pay this, so he complained.
EUI wouldnt change  his stance so Mr N brought his complaint to us. Ultimately the 
investigator didnt  think  it should be upheld. Mr N didnt agree so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
There are several issues here and Ill take them in turn.
First its clear Mr N told EUI he had changed  address. A change of address  does  affect the 
amount of premium that can be charged. The premium amount can both increase and 
indeed decrease.  EUI, like most  motor  insurers,  do this on a postcode basis. No motor 
insurer would come out to a policyholders house to check precisely the area he was moving 
to, that would increase costs considerably which would ultimately be passed onto the 
policyholders anyway. Therefore, I dont consider theres anything  wrong  with the standard  
industry practice of rating postcodes in the manner EUI has done it here.
EUI is fully entitled to make such commercial decisions  provided  its clear it would have 
treated all policyholders  living in the same postcode the same. EUI has shown me it does do 
this, so Mr N hasnt  been singled out or treated any differently to anyone  else.  The 
information EUI has shared with me to show this is commercially sensitive, which means  Im 
not permitted  to share it with Mr N or indeed put any of it in this decision, since  we publish 
our decisions. 
It is however quite a substantial increase,  so its essential I assess if EUI explained the 
increase to Mr N and notified him of it before applying to his bank to take his next monthly 
instalment. I consider  it did. This is because  Ive seen  copies of the correspondence  it sent 
to Mr N, after he informed it of his address on 16 April 2019. These are the following:
Confirmation that it noted his change of address  on 17 April 2019.
The Agreement Modifying a Credit Agreement  under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
which was also sent to Mr N on 17 April 2019.  This lays out the amount of the 
Ref: DRN97948402increase to his premium  and the amount by which  his monthly instalments would 
then be increased. 
Then when  EUI couldnt take his monthly payment (without the increase being  applied) on 
21 April 2019 from Mr Ns bank account  of £154.46, it told him this on 26 April and explained 
it would  reapply for it within  seven days.  It also explained this caused an extra  charge to Mr 
N of £7.50 which it would  add to his next instalment on 21 May 2019 which  was detailed as 
the increased instalment Mr N had to pay due to his change of address, which  was £539.62.
Therefore Im satisfied  that first Mr N was properly  notified of the increased premium before 
EUI went to take it from his bank account.  And Im anyway satisfied as Mr Ns bank  didnt let 
it take the original  instalment, Mr N was not just informed of this but was also informed again 
of what his new increased instalment was going  to be.
So I dont  consider EUI has done  anything wrong  in explaining the increased premium due to 
Mr Ns change of address. 
Ive listed to the call recordings between EUI and Mr N of 29 May 2019  and 31 May 2019 
and its very clear in the call recording for 31 May that Mr N wanted to cancel  this policy  
because of the premium  increase due to his change of address. As this cancellation took 
effect mid-way through  the policy year and after 14-day  cooling off period, I consider EUI did 
nothing wrong  in applying those cancellation  charges and requesting  Mr N to pay them.
As Mr N didnt  cancel his policy until 31 May 2019, I dont consider EUI has done anything 
wrong in asking Mr N to pay his premium  for his time on cover  to 31 May 2019 plus the 
cancellation charges.
my final decision
So whilst I appreciate  Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, its my final decision that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9794840