K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Oodle Financial 
Services Limited (Oodle) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr K took receipt of a used car in December 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Oodle. At the point  of supply the car was about five years old and 
had already completed about 90,000 miles.
Mr K had problems with the car from the onset. He says he noticed cosmetic issues  with the 
car after he left the dealership and that the dealership promised to rectify these for him but 
havent. Within  a few days  he also noticed a knocking noise and he didnt think  the 
suspension was working properly. The spare key blade broke  and the battery drained 
because of a fault with the radio.
He complained to Oodle  and they arranged an independent  inspection  of the car in January 
2019.
The independent inspector identified  many cosmetic issues  with the car. He also confirmed 
that the spare key was broken and he explained that Mr K had found it necessary to remove 
the fuse for the radio  to stop the battery  draining. He noted that the suspension warning light 
was illuminated  at times and he thought this was due to suspension being under insufficient  
pressure. He also identified a knocking noise  from the suspension which he thought was 
likely to be from worn  suspension or steering joints. He suggested that the issues  with the 
car were mainly  cosmetic  and didnt prevent it being  fit for purpose.
So Oodle didnt  support Mr Ks complaint  and he therefore referred it to this service  where  
our adjudicator provided an opinion. He thought the cosmetic issues  were typical  of the sort 
of wear and tear that could  be expected on a vehicle  of this age and mileage. But he didnt 
think the broken  key; the inadequate  suspension  or the failed battery could be attributed  to 
normal wear and tear. 
He noted that Mr K had explained there had already been a failed repair to the suspension  
system. He therefore thought it would now be fair for Oodle to allow him to reject the car; 
refund any finance  instalments made by Mr K since he returned the car to the dealership in 
January 2019  and pay him £200 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that 
hed experienced. 
He understood  that the dealership had been  trying to charge Mr K storage costs  for the car, 
as hed left it with them in January. But the adjudicator thought these  storage costs  were 
attributable to the failures Mr K had noted  with the vehicle and he therefore didnt think Mr K 
should be responsible for paying them. 
Oodle didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. They said there was no proof  that an 
attempt had been made to repair the car and they didnt think the issues that had been  
identified would render  the car of unsatisfactory quality. They  therefore  asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN91649042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Oodle so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr K. The car here 
was around five years old and had completed a high mileage. So I would expect  a 
reasonable amount of wear and tear. I think the cosmetic issues identified  in the 
independent inspectors report  are, in the main, typical of that sort of wear.  
But I dont think a reasonable  person would expect  a car of this age and mileage to have 
suspension issues that resulted in warning lights illuminating in the car. I dont think  theyd 
think it satisfactory to have a failed  battery  or a broken key after such  a short  space of time 
either. And, because the issues were identified in the first few days or weeks,  I think its most 
likely, as did the independent inspector, that the issues were present at the point of supply; 
when Oodle are responsible for the quality of the car.
Relevant legislation allows  Oodle one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at the point 
of supply. Mr K says the dealership have  attempted to repair his car but that the repair  failed. 
Oodles and our adjudicators attempts to obtain  information from the dealership about any 
repair work that has or has not been  done have failed. In those circumstances I find Mr Ks 
testimony persuasive and I think its most likely a repair has been attempted but has failed.
So I agree that it would now be fair and reasonable to allow  Mr K to reject  the car. Oodle 
should refund any finance  instalments paid by Mr K since January 2019 when its clear the 
car was no longer being used. They should add interest to that payment as Mr K has been 
deprived of that money whilst financing an unsatisfactory car. 
I think theres also evidence here that Mr K has been inconvenienced as hes had to return 
the car to the dealership;  has been  pursued  for payment of storage costs  and has had to 
Ref: DRN91649043make a complaint  to this service when I think issues  could have been resolved earlier. I think  
Oodle should  compensate  him for the distress  and inconvenience caused  and, in the 
circumstances, I think  £200  would be fair.
I dont think its reasonable to charge  Mr K for storage of the car. He had to return it because  
of quality problems  with the car. So I think Oodle should waive  any charges for storage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services  
Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement;
record the agreement  as settled on Mr Ks credit file and remove any adverse reports  
that may have been made  to the credit  file in relation to this issue;
refund  any payments  made to the finance  agreement from, and including, January  
2019 and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of payment  to the date of settlement;
pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced;
arrange to settle any storage costs with the dealership at no cost to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9164904