K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds complaint concerns a whole of life policy administered by The Royal  London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited. 
She feels the policy was mis-sold as there was no indication that the premiums would 
increase by as much  as they have  and the increases appear disproportionate to the 
corresponding increases in the policys sum assured. She also says that a change to the 
basis of the policy in 2004 shouldve  led to the premiums being guaranteed  for a new 10 
year period.  And, further, the information provided about the policy reviews has been  unclear 
and misleading.
background
Mrs D took out her policy in 1997.  It provided an initial sum assured of £150,000  but this was 
indexed, meaning  it rose annually in line with the rate of inflation.  The policy was set up on 
the basis of providing  career  cover   so with the intention of it providing  protection  broadly 
until retirement. 
The policy was reviewed  after 10 years  and again in 2012  and 2017.  On each occasion it 
failed the review, meaning that increases in the premiums in addition to the annual  
indexation increases were  required  to maintain the sum assured, particularly in 2017. 
In response to Mrs Ds concerns Royal London highlighted that the policy had been sold by 
an independent financial adviser (IFA), so responsibility for ensuring the policy  had been 
suitable for Mrs Ds needs and circumstances sat with that business. Royal  Londons 
responsibilities extended only to ensuring  the policy was administered  correctly. 
And in this respect, it felt it had done  nothing wrong.  It said the policy had been  reviewed as 
it shouldve been  at the correct times  and that the resulting increases in premium  were due 
to the increasing  cost of life cover provided by the policy.  
It noted Mrs Ds point  about the review increases not being shown as a percentage in the 
same way as the annual  indexation increases were. But it didnt feel this was wrong as it 
wouldnt be usual to show the review increases in this way. 
In respect of her point  about the policy changing in 2004 Royal  London explained that this 
hadnt been the introduction of the career basis or the start of a new policy.  Rather, thered 
simply been an amendment to change the target  career end age from 58 to 60. Royal 
London also acknowledged some delays in the handling of the complaint and offered Mrs D 
£75 for this, which shes accepted.  
Mrs D referred  her complaint to this service where  our investigator reached broadly the 
same conclusions as Royal London.  She didnt feel the complaint should  be upheld.      
So, as Mrs D remained unhappy,  the matters been  referred to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93616152As noted,  Im not considering the suitability  of the policy for Mrs D, only whether or not Royal 
London has administered  it correctly, in line with the terms and conditions. And having 
looked closely at the documentation Ive seen nothing that suggests Royal  London made an 
error in its administration. 
The annual indexation increases appear to have been carried  out correctly. I note Mrs Ds 
comments about proportionality. But the terms of the policy  dont say that the increases in 
premium resulting from the increases  in the sum assured will be proportionate. They explain 
that the calculation of the new premium to support  the indexed sum assured will depend on 
a number of factors.   
And in respect  of the review increases,  these  too appear to be in keeping  with the terms and 
to have been carried out on the correct career cover basis, identified at the outset  albeit  
with the change in 2004. As the policy progresses the cost of life cover becomes 
increasingly expensive.  And the ability of the premiums to support this increasing cost is 
dependent upon the investment performance. It is entirely normal for an increase to be 
required at the point of a review as the initial  premium (indexation allowing in this case) is 
only guaranteed  up until the point of the first review, which  Im satisfied shouldve taken 
place in 2007. 
I note Mrs Ds particular concern with the premium increase resulting from the most recent 
review, which  has seen  the premium double. I understand her concern about this, especially 
as shes noted  that this hasnt occurred with her husbands  similar  policy. But Royal London 
has explained that this increase is a result  of her having reached the target career  end age 
of 60, on which the general sustainability of the policy was based. Her husband, having 
selected a higher target age has not yet reached that point.
So, in summary,  Im unable to conclude that Royal London has acted incorrectly  or 
unreasonably in its administration of Mrs Ds policy. While I can understand her 
disappointment with the increased costs she does  have the options, as have been  
highlighted by Royal London, of stopping the indexation or reducing the sum assured in 
order to reduce the premiums.
Ref: DRN93616153my final decision
For the reasons  given  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December   2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9361615