K822xcomplaint
Mr V has complained about CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS)  handling of his car 
insurance policy when  he claimed for a replacement windscreen.
Reference to CIS includes their agents.
background 
Mr Vs car insurance with CIS included  windscreen  replacement cover.  In December 2018, 
Mr V made a claim and said his windscreen needed  replacing. CIS arranged for one of their 
windscreen specialists  to carry out the work. Mr V was asked to go to the windscreen 
specialists garage  on 19 December.
When Mr V attended on 19 December it was discovered that the new windscreen couldnt be 
installed because it was faulty. The windscreen  was replaced on 21 December. 
Mr V complained saying  his time was wasted and he had lost out on a days wages of £120. 
He said the garage  was around 20 miles from his home so he also wanted  to be reimbursed  
for his fuel.
CIS apologised but said their windscreen agent hadnt done  anything wrong as the 
windscreen was delivered to them  damaged. As Mr V didnt think  CIS treated him fairly, he 
brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that CIS 
had dealt with Mr V fairly. As Mr V didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 29 April 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
CIS have  told our service  that their windscreen  agent does usually check  parts 
before a customer arrives on site. But they dont  usually check parts  that arrive boxed 
and Mr Vs windscreen was boxed  so it wasnt checked. But whether a part is boxed  
or not I would expect  CIS agent to know that parts  do sometimes  arrive damaged or 
faulty. And given the part in this case was a windscreen I think it would have been 
reasonable for them to have checked it before  they told Mr V to travel there. If they 
had done so they could  have saved Mr V a wasted trip. Mr V was in no way to blame 
for what happened.
Mr V was clearly inconvenienced because of what happened and he had to make  
time on a separate occasion to have the windscreen replaced. But I dont think  it 
would be reasonable for me to ask CIS to reimburse Mr V a full days  income as I 
understand he wasnt at the windscreen  agents  garage the whole  day. But he did 
spend time travelling  to and from the garage  and subsequently spent  time dealing 
with CIS and our service in relation to his complaint. Im therefore intending to uphold 
his complaint and I think £100 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances to 
address the inconvenience Mr V experienced.
Ref: DRN99822552The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Both CIS and Mr V accepted my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and given both parties 
have accepted my provisional findings, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require CIS General Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr V £100 compensation  for the inconvenience he experienced. This should 
be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr V has accepted my final decision. If they 
pay later than this they must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If CIS consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr V how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9982255