K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham  Midshires)  has relied on a 
mortgage valuation  that is too low when  determining how much it is prepared  to lend.
In order to resolve this matter Mr K wants Birmingham Midshires to arrange for a new 
independent valuation to be carried out on the property.
background
Mr K wanted  to re-mortgage  a buy-to-let property he owns, with Birmingham Midshires.  
Birmingham Midshires arranged for a free mortgage valuation  to be carried out at the 
property. The valuation  was provided  by a member of the Royal  Institute of Chartered  
Surveyors (RICS). The valuation was less than Mr K was expecting. Mr Ks mortgage broker 
complained to Birmingham Midshires on his behalf.
Birmingham Midshires explained  that it was entitled  to rely on the professional opinion of the 
surveyor it had appointed. It noted that Mr K had opted for the free basic valuation,  carried 
out for the Birmingham Midshires benefit.  As this was the case it said Mr K did not have the 
right to appeal the valuation  it had received.
It paid Mr K £250 for incorrect information  it had given him about appealing the valuation by 
providing information on comparable properties.  It explained that it was not possible for Mr K 
to appeal the valuation as it had been  carried out for its benefit in order to determine  the 
value of the property for mortgage  purposes.
Mr K wasnt  satisfied with Birmingham Midshires response and brought  his complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ks complaint  should  be upheld.  He said he was 
satisfied that it was reasonable for Birmingham Midshires to rely upon professionally 
qualified surveyors to complete its valuations. And he said that the free valuation was carried 
out for the lenders benefit only.
Mr K didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said property prices had increased since he 
had last had the property  valued and he felt the valuation was too low.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ks position  but I dont think his complaint should  be upheld. Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate that Mr K feels the valuation on his property  is too low. But Birmingham 
Midshires is legitimately entitled  to rely on the professional opinion  of the surveyor  it 
appointed. 
Ref: DRN90995632There is no obligation on a lender  to agree to lend. And Birmingham Midshires is entitled to 
refuse to lend the amount  Mr K requested if it is not satisfied that there is sufficient equity in 
the property. 
As our adjudicator explained, as the valuation for mortgage purposes was paid for by 
Birmingham Midshires Mr K is not able to appeal the valuation  provided by the surveyor.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr K was hoping  for. But I dont think 
Birmingham Midshires has acted unreasonably by relying on the professional opinion of the 
surveyor it appointed.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9099563