K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Inter Partner  Assistance S.A. shouldve met his claim under his home 
emergency insurance.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints against insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. We can only deal with complaints against  one firm at a time.
Mr A had a home buildings insurance  policy. The insurer responsible for dealing with 
buildings insurance  claims  was an insurance company associated with IPA  but separate  
from IPA. 
The policy had a section  providing home emergency  cover. IPA was the insurer  responsible 
for dealing  with home emergency claims. Im dealing with a complaint against IPA. Where I 
refer to IPA, I include its engineers, claims-handlers and others for whose actions I hold IPA 
responsible.
Mr A called IPA for help with a leak under his bath.  He complained that its engineer wouldnt 
take off the bath panel to fix the leak.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think that 
the insurer had been unreasonable in declining  to carry out the works under the home  
emergency section  of the policy.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that there  was no need to trace the leak.  It was obviously  
under the bath.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt Mr As statement that he previously had home emergency cover 
branded with the name of a membership organisation. And - under  that cover  - an engineer 
accessed and fixed an earlier  leak under  the bath.
IPAs home  emergency  section included fixing leaks from pipes leading to and from the bath.
But it didnt cover work to trace and access the source of leaks.  It said the following:
We will not pay for claims arising  directly or indirectly from or relating to the 
following:
1.Trace and access to locate the source  of the emergency is not covered. 
Please note that this may be covered under your buildings insurance.
Ive also seen a two-page policy summary document. It set out a list of what  was covered 
(marked with green ticks) and a list of what wasnt  covered (marked  with red crosses).  One 
of the things not covered  was as follows:
Ref: DRN99906092Trace & access  to locate the source  of the emergency"
So Im satisfied that IPA had made  clear that its home emergency cover didnt include 
tracing or gaining access to leaks from pipes that were hidden from view.
IPA has said - and Mr A agrees - that the bath panel  was tiled.  So it would be necessary to 
take it off before fixing the leak. IPAs engineer declined to do that.
So Mr A complained to IPA and he got a plumber to fix the bath leak.  Mr A has sent us a 
copy of a plumbers  invoice dated  19 April.  From that, I see that the charge of £213.00 to fix 
the bath leak (and to do a small job in a different room).
From what  he has said, Mr A is reluctant to make a claim on the buildings  insurance  
because he would have  to pay a policy excess. Ive seen the policy schedule which says the 
excess was £550.00.
The insurer  has shown us a final response letter date 8 June. It didnt uphold the complaint 
because of the policy exclusion quoted above. But IPA said it was sending Mr A a cheque  
for £30.00  towards telephone costs.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I have  to keep in mind the clear terms of IPAs home 
emergency cover. And Ive found that IPA had made  clear that its home emergency cover 
didnt include tracing or gaining  access to leaks from pipes that were  hidden from view.
So I dont  find that IPA treated Mr A unfairly  by declining to remove  the bath panel to gain 
access to the pipes under the bath.  I dont find it fair and reasonable to order  IPA to 
reimburse Mr A the £213.00 or to do anything further in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make 
no order against Inter Partner Assistance S.A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9990609