K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Curo Transatlantic Limited  trading as WageDayAdvance (WDA)  lent 
him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr O is represented in this complaint by a claims management company.
background
Mr O took out three loans  with WDA. A summary of his borrowing is set out below:
Date of loan Loan amount
Due Date Repayment date
Amount repaid
17/04/2017 £250 02/06/2017 19/05/2017 £312
19/05/2017 £450 03/07/2017 03/07/2017 £612
31/07/2017 £450 01/09/2017 09/10/2017 £649
Mr O says he was borrowing from multiple  short term lenders at the time and couldnt  afford  
to repay  the loans  without borrowing more.
Mr O wants WDA to refund the interest and charges  that hes paid and remove any negative 
information about the loans from his credit file.
WDA said it carried  out adequate affordability checks before  agreeing  the loans. WDA says 
Mr O declared  his monthly income  to be £1,900 with outgoings  of £995. Based on this, Mr O 
had more than enough disposable  monthly  income to afford  to repay  the loans. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Os complaint be upheld in part. He agreed  that it was 
reasonable of WDA  to rely on Mr Os income  figure  and declared expenses  when it agreed 
the first loan. But he thought that for loans two and three, WDA shouldve asked more 
questions about  Mr Os other short term lending commitments. The adjudicator thought  that 
if WDA had done this, it wouldve realised  that Mr O couldnt afford to repay loans  two and 
three.
The adjudicator asked WDA to refund  all interest and charges that it had applied to loans 
two and three pay interest on the refund. The adjudicator asked WDA  to remove  any 
negative information  about the two loans from Mr Os credit file.
WDA says that Mr O didnt use loan one to repay  loan two as he had to repay loan two 
before loan was given  to him. WDA  says that Mr O repaid  all three  loans in full so it doesnt  
agree with the recommendation to uphold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part along the lines recommended by the adjudicator.
WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks  to see whether Mr O could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr O was borrowing, how much  he had to repay,  the length of 
Ref: DRN96793472the agreements  and his borrowing history. But there  was no set list of checks WDA had to 
do.
WDA has given us evidence that it asked Mr O for details of his net monthly  income and 
monthly expenditure including rent, credit and living expenses before agreeing to lend each 
time. It also carried  out credit checks.
loan one 
Mr O was borrowing £250 and had to repay around  £300. It was his first loan so I think a 
proportionate check wouldve  involved  asking  for details of Mr Os living  costs  and regular  
credit commitments.  WDA has given us evidence that it asked  for this information so I think 
that its checks went far enough.
Based on what WDA  knew about  Mr O and the amount he was borrowing, I think  it was 
reasonable of WDA  to agree loan one.
loans two and three
Mr Os second loan was almost double the amount of the first and he took it out immediately 
upon repaying loan one. Although it was still early on in Mr Os lending  history, I think  this 
pattern of borrowing shouldve led WDA  to question whether it knew enough  of Mr Os 
financial situation to agree to lend. I consider it was reasonable to expect WDA  to ask Mr O 
whether he had any other short  term lending commitments as well as his regular expenses.
WDA hasnt given us any evidence to indicate  that it asked Mr O specifically about his other 
short term lending. If WDA had found out about Mr Os other payday loans before agreeing 
loans two and three,  its likely it wouldve discovered  that he had a large  number of 
outstanding short term lending commitments. 
Taking account of the undeclared short term loans as well as the expenses  that WDA knew 
about, Mr O was left with a negative disposable  income each time that he was due to repay 
loans two and three.
The fact that Mr O managed to repay  all the loans  to WDA in full and on time doesnt mean 
that he could afford  to do so in a sustainable  way  that is without borrowing further. I think  if 
WDA had carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve realised that Mr O was borrowing  
from various lenders  at different  times  so that he could juggle his repayments.  
As a responsible lender,  I dont think WDA wouldve agreed to lend if it had carried  out 
proper checks.  Mr O has lost out as a result of taking loans two and three so WDA should 
pay him compensation.
putting things right
To put things right, WDA  should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr O paid on loans two and three;
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement;  and
Ref: DRN96793473remove any negative information  about loans two and three from Mr Os credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give    
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Curo  Transatlantic Limited trading 
as Wage Day Advance to put things  right by doing  as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9679347