K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint concerns the whole  of life policy sold to him by Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in 1995 . He says he wasnt told that it was reviewable and therefore wasnt told the 
sum assured could  change.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  replied to my provisional  decision.
Mr F accepted my provisional findings  and the suggested redress.
Aviva disagreed. It said that it agreed  to pay £100  for the inconvenience  caused to Mr F for 
not carrying out the reviews on time.  But it considered from the sales  documents that life and 
critical illness cover was important to Mr F. The fact that Mr F hadnt cancelled  his policy 
since he made the complaint shows this cover was still important to him. And because  the 
cover was important to him, Aviva says that if he had cancelled the policy in 2010, he 
wouldve taken some replacement cover that he would still have been paying  for. So overall, 
Aviva didnt think a refund  of the premiums  from 2010 onwards was fair. Aviva noted that as 
Mr Fs policy covers  critical  illness as well as life cover, he will lose both if he decides to 
cancel his policy.
Finally, Aviva said that Mr F was sent a letter following  its rectification  exercise in 2015, but it 
says this letter didnt  give him the options available to him. Aviva undertook to provide a 
copy of this letter but to date has not done  so.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive reached the same conclusions  
as those set out in my provisional decision  for the same reasons.  Ill explain why Avivas 
further response to my provisional decision hasnt changed my mind. I set out my thoughts in 
response to Avivas further  comments in an email dated 22 July 2019. Aviva hasnt 
submitted any further comments in response.
I note Mr F says he doesnt think he received the rectification  letter from Aviva.  And to date,  
as Ive noted above, Aviva hasnt provided  a copy of this letter to our service. In any event, 
as Aviva said, the letter didnt give Mr F any options including the option  to cash-in his 
policy from 2010 onwards. So even if the letter had been sent,  I dont think Mr F wouldve 
taken any action.
Mr F told this service  the reason he didnt cancel the policy after he raised his complaint was 
because he was concerned that if he did so, this might affect  the validity of his dispute  with 
Aviva. Whilst I consider  it wouldnt have, I think given Mr F had an ongoing complaint with 
Aviva and he misunderstood how a cancellation might  impact on the dispute, I think this 
offers a reasonable explanation as to why he continued with the policy  even after he brought 
his complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN97092172I take Avivas point that the policy was important  to Mr F  otherwise he wouldnt have taken 
out the cover. But the most important aspect of the policy was the life cover  as this provided  
protection for his wife in the event of his death.
I appreciate Aviva wants to highlight  the policy covers critical illness  as well as life cover.  
These are facts that have been  drawn to Mr Fs attention.
So whilst Ive taken on board what Aviva has said, for the reasons Ive set out above and in 
my provisional decision attached below, Im still of the view that Mr Fs complaint should be 
partially upheld.  I feel a refund of the premiums from 2010  onwards, as well as 8% simple 
interest to compensate  him for the time he hasnt had the benefit of this sum, is fair. And as 
set out in my provisional decision, Ill also award a payment  of £100 for the inconvenience 
this has caused  Mr F.
my final decision
Im partially upholding the complaint. I order Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr F:
Refund all the premiums paid since the review date that was due to take place in 
2010 plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date each premium was paid to the 
date of settlement;
Pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
If Aviva considers it is legally obliged  to deduct  income tax from the interest, it must make 
the appropriate payment to HM Revenue  and Customs and send a tax deduction certificate  
to Mr F with the compensation payment. He can then reclaim any overpaid  tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97092173copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr Fs complaint concerns the whole of life policy sold to him by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  in 
1995. He says he wasnt told that it was reviewable and therefore  wasnt told the sum assured could 
change.
 
background
In early 1995, Mr F arranged two similar  whole  of life policies, one for himself and one for his wife. 
This decision deals only with Mr Fs policy.
The policy was reviewed  by Aviva in 2005 and passed  meaning there wasnt a change  to the sum 
assured (cover) or the premiums. Aviva failed to carry out the policy reviews due to take place in 2010 
and 2015. The next review was carried out in 2017 when  Mr F reached the age of 70. At this point the 
policy failed its review. Because of this Mr F was advised by Aviva he needed to increase his 
monthly premiums  from £16.24  to £45.15 to continue with the same sum assured. Alternatively, he 
could maintain the same monthly premiums of £16.24 and reduce the sum assured from £12,703 to 
the minimum level of £4,219.
Mr F complained to Aviva. Amongst other things, he said he was told by Avivas financial advisor  at 
the time of sale that the sum assured was guaranteed. But Aviva said the reviews and the possible 
outcomes of the reviews were clearly explained  to Mr F. It said at the time of sale, he was provided 
with an illustration of how the policy  would  work,  a policy brochure  and a recommendation letter. So 
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Initially our investigator upheld  Mr Fs complaint. She didnt have evidence  that Aviva had carried out 
any reviews.  And she considered that if it had done so Mr F wouldve cancelled his policy. In 
response Aviva sent further information  providing a letter from 2005 showing  the outcome  of a review 
which had passed.  It also provided details of a rectification exercise it carried out for all customers. In 
Mr Fs case it said the possible outcomes were  as follows:
option  1 - premium increase from £16.24 to £34.51 (2010 review) followed  by a premium 
increase to £38.37 (2015 review). Cover  maintained at £12,703
option  2  sum assured (SA)  reduction from £12,703  to £6,287 (2010  review)  followed by a 
SA reduction to £5,104 (2015 review). Premium remains £16.24
option  3 - premium increase from £16.24 to £34.51 (2010 review) followed  by a SA reduction 
from £12,703 to £11,527 (2015 review)
option  4  SA reduction £12,703 to £6,287 (2010  review)  followed by a premium increase  
from £16.24 to £20.21 (2015 review)
Because Mr F hadnt received the reviews at the correct time, Aviva said that under its rectification 
programme it had paid to increase his policy premiums  for 2010 and 2015 so that the sum assured  
didnt reduce.  Aviva said this was the most favourable outcome for Mr F and was paid for at its own 
expense.
 
Based on the new information our investigator issued a further  view. She considered  the option 
chosen by Aviva, was fair. But Mr F disagreed.  In summary he said:
Aviva had broken  the terms  of the policy by missing  the reviews
he hasnt received any documents about the rectification programme 
Aviva have totally mis-managed his policy
he wants a refund of all the premiums paid from the beginning of the policy
So the matter was passed  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN97092174my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to partially  uphold this complaint. 
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mr F has raised a number of points during his 
contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point he has raised, Ive considered 
everything Mr F has said but limited  my findings  to the areas  which impact on the outcome of the 
case.
was the policy mis-sold
I can see Mr F took out a reviewable whole of life policy with a guaranteed death benefit. These 
policies are designed to pay out a lump  sum on death,  whenever it occurs. The amount of cover and 
premiums are based on assumptions about a number of different factors  such as the future cost of life 
cover and investment  performance, which cant be known at the start. Simply, each monthly  premium 
paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost of cover in that month. 
Any remainder is invested  into a fund or funds. 
The cost of the life cover is not fixed and actually  increases with age  this is known as the mortality 
charge. I know Mr F says he wasnt  told about the mortality charge but this is a usual  part of the costs 
of any life cover.  But the hope is the investment element  will grow sufficiently to fund the shortfall  
when the policy reaches  the point that the cost of cover is greater than the monthly  premium. 
Mr Fs policy was due to be reviewed regularly to check how it was performing against the original 
assumptions and so that fresh assumptions about the future had all been taken into account. Once 
these calculations were  complete this wouldve allowed Aviva to determine whether the policy had 
passed the review, usually meaning no changes to cover or premiums are required. Or failed,  
usually meaning the policyholder is offered the choice of either paying a higher premium to maintain 
the same level of cover,  or accepting  reduced cover for the same premium.
Looking at the overall suitability  of the policy, Im satisfied that Mr F had a need for protection  when he 
took out the policy.  Both he and his wife took out similar  policies at the same time,  each receiving  the 
death benefit from the others policy. Its also worth  noting that the financial  review document which  
recorded Mr Fs personal and financial details,  only records a limited amount of information. Mr F 
opted not to provide detailed information about his personal and financial situation.  So from the limited 
information Mr F chose to provide and what he required the protection  for - to protect  his wife in the 
event of his death - Im satisfied the policy was suitable for his needs.
Mr F said he thought the amount of benefit  was guaranteed for life. But I see the information  about  the 
policy, including the reviewable nature of the policy and potential  risk of the premiums increasing  over 
time, were contained  in the notes written  up by the Aviva financial adviser  about what he was 
recommending and why. Mr F signed this document to acknowledge its contents. As well as a record 
of the conversation with the Aviva financial  advisor from the time of sale, I can see the nature of the 
policy  that it was subject to regular reviews  was clearly set out in other policy documents such  as 
the key fact document.
So in light of these documents, I think its more likely  than not that the reviewable nature of the policy  
was explained to Mr F. And overall Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr Fs needs at the time of 
sale.
reviews
Aviva has sent our service  a copy of the review letter sent to Mr F in 2005. Mr F says he cant 
remember receiving this. But I can see its correctly  addressed and in the absence  of any reported  
postal problems  from that time,  I think its more likely than not, it was delivered to Mr Fs address. And 
perhaps, due to the passage of time, he cant remember receiving it. I know he says that he wouldve  
Ref: DRN97092175expected a reminder  but as this review passed and nothing had changed, Aviva didnt need 
anything more from Mr F, so I wouldnt  expect it to chase him for a response or send a reminder.
But I can see there  is no dispute the reviews were not carried out in 2010 and 2015 when they 
shouldve been. Aviva carried  out a rectification exercise  for the years  the reviews  werent carried out 
because a number of customers were affected by this. So Ill consider whether  what  theyve offered to 
Mr F is fair in his particular  circumstances. 
The options  considered by Aviva as part of its rectification  programme are set out above. And I see 
Aviva decided  that option  1 was the most favourable  for Mr F. This meant it increased the premiums 
at its own expense  so the cover could remain the same. And therefore Mr Fs cover remained the 
same and he was paying the same monthly premium  up until 2017.
But I note Aviva  didnt communicate the rectification programme to Mr F. So it seems the first time he 
became aware of the programme was sometime after he contacted  our service  in 2018.  Aviva said 
this was because it was looking at a large number  of policies and decided  that rather than making 
customers make  an immediate decision  at a point between their contractual review dates it would 
choose the best option  for them.
When something goes wrong, as it did here, we expect a business to make sure its customers  arent 
disadvantaged. So I think  it was fair that when Aviva  carried out its rectification exercise it made  Mr F 
an offer. But I also think it wouldve been fair to communicate this to him. Particularly given Mr F had 
contacted Aviva making enquiries about the value  of his policy in 2014.
Im mindful that Mr F has, by virtue of the rectification  process funded by Aviva, received the benefit of 
the continuing life cover,  along with the surrender  value which may have been enhanced by Aviva 
effectively paying those premiums on her behalf. But at the same time,  I consider he lost the 
opportunity to cash in his policy. This option was open to him in the last failed review letter from 
2017. Given the options  (1 to 4) were designed to put him in the positon  he wouldve been in if things 
had happened as they shouldve, I think he may have cancelled the policy once hed seen the sums, 
and in particular, the increased premium needed to maintain the life cover.  And if he did, this wouldve  
meant that hed have  nothing  further to pay and also had the benefit  of the policy premiums since that 
time. If Mr F does choose  to cash  in the policy, Im going to ask Aviva to repay  his premiums from 
2010 onwards as well as 8% simple interest to compensate him for the time he hasnt had the benefit 
of this sum.
Alternatively, if Mr F chooses to continue with the policy, there is no current  (financial) loss to him  as 
Ive said above, he has benefited from paying lower premiums for the same life cover as a result of 
the rectification  process undertaken  by Aviva. If Mr F does continue with the policy, hell now need  to 
either pay the higher  premiums to maintain the life cover,  or continue to pay the same premiums for 
the reduced level of cover.
Given the communication issues Mr F has experienced with Aviva, in my final decision Im intending 
to ask Aviva to pay him £100 for any inconvenience this has caused him.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr Fs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  in part and award  
her compensation  as set out above.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9709217