K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a regular  premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 1998 Mr H took out a credit  card with BOS.  At the same time he was 
sold a regular premium  PPI policy to cover  his credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought Mr H had made it 
clear in the application he wanted PPI and the policy wouldve suited  his needs.
Mr H disagreed. He says he didnt knowingly take out PPI and he didnt need it.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Mr H was sold the PPI during a meeting when he applied for his credit card.  BOS  needed to 
make it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr H says this wasnt  done.  Mr H hasnt given us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make him think this. But I think  thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show.
Ive looked at the original credit card application and agreement form sent to us by BOS  and 
can see within section 8 Product details it says to mark the relevant boxes if credit card 
repayments insurance or card protection is wanted.  I think  this couldve been worded better 
and set out more  clearly  but I think it presents the PPI as optional.  
And from what we understand about BOSs  sales process there wouldve been a discussion 
about PPI and then the application form wouldve been completed and printed out for 
reviewing and signing. I can see that an X has been pre-populated in the Credit Card  
Repayment Insurance box and the Card  Protection box left clear indicating that Mr H 
wanted to take out the PPI but not card protection. And Mr H has signed  and dated  the form 
just below in the next section. I think its likely Mr H wouldve  seen that the PPI box was 
selected and if he hadnt agreed to take it I think he wouldve raised this with the sales 
advisor. 
So I think Mr H wouldve  understood  the PPI was optional  and it was selected on the credit  
card application  because he agreed  to take it. And based on what  Mr H has told us I cant 
say its likely BOS did do things to make him think the PPI wasnt optional.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Mr H could make an informed  
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable  to his needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN99339212I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H for the following  reasons:
He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr H says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had 
no other guaranteed means  of making  his credit card payments if he couldnt work or 
lost his job. The policy wouldve  paid out on top of any work benefits  and covered  his 
credit card payments  for up to 12 months if he couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job. So I think the policy  wouldve  provided  a useful benefit to Mr 
H in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time and 
if he decided he no longer wanted  the policy he couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr H information in a way which  was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Mr H has told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if hed 
been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Mr H isnt worse  off as a result  of any wrong doing  by BOS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9933921