K820x#14Complaint
Mr Q has complained that DRB Associates Ltd failed to advise him to take pension 
protection at the relevant  times,  meaning he could face a large  tax bill if he exceeds  the 
lifetime allowance  (LTA) in future.
Mr Q is being represented by a third party  but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr Q.
Background
Mr Q and his brother  are directors of company C. They set up a small self-administered  
scheme (SSAS), a type of occupational pension scheme, to provide them with pension  
benefits. Mr Q and his brother were both trustees and members of the scheme.
The SSAS had been set up and was administered by a business called P, which is a 
professional trustee. DRB is associated with P and provides financial advice services.
Mr Q crystallised  his SSAS benefits  on 21 October  2013 at which point  they were  valued at 
£781,598.77. This used around 52% of his LTA of £1.5m. Mr G took a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS)  of £195,399.69.
In August  2014,  Mr Q received advice from DRB in relation to a small personal pension he 
held which  had a value of around £60,000. Mr Q told DRB he wanted to take the PCLS but 
defer any income and asked for advice to achieve  that objective. DRB  recommended  Mr Q 
switch the benefits to an alternative provider. Mr Q accepted this recommendation, however, 
after experiencing service issues with the provider DRB had recommended, DRB provided  
further advice  in November 2014 in order to facilitate a switch to a retirement account  with a 
new provider. 
In the following years Mr Qs relationship with DRB  and P broke down. And after engaging 
with a new financial adviser in 2018,  Mr Q complained about the lack of advice given  to him 
about his LTA. Specifically, he complained about  the failure of DRB to advise that he apply 
for pension  protections in 2014  or 2016 to preserve a higher LTA. Mr Qs brother made  an 
identical complaint  which is the subject of a separate  complaint  with our service.
DRB didnt  agree that Mr Q had been  affected by any LTA issues as hed crystallised his 
benefits in 2013 at only 52% of the LTA. Mr Q remained  unhappy  and referred his complaint 
to our service.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. He didnt think  that there were any 
reasons to believe Mr Q needed to apply for pension  protection  when he received advice 
from DRB in 2014. And although  there wasnt any evidence to suggest advice was given 
after this point, he also didnt think DRB  shouldve advised him to apply for protection  in 
2016.
Mr Q didnt agree and asked for a final decision.  He said that the adjudicator had focused on 
the events up to 2016, but the issue wasnt  just contributions and their growth and the
impact it had on the first crystallisation event. Mr Q said the bigger issue  was the rental  
income derived  from property held within the SSAS  which DRB knew  about and continued to 
generate around  £125,000 per year split between him and his brother. He said this would 
have an impact on the LTA in the future when additional crystallisation events occur.  Mr Q 
Ref: DRN99363942added that there was an incident where  fees had been taken  from the SSAS by P which 
werent authorised.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
I got in touch with Mr Q to explain that I wouldnt be upholding  the complaint, but my reasons 
for this were different to those given by the investigator.  I also explained that I couldnt 
consider his complaint about P taking unauthorised fees as it wasnt regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). Mr Q didnt accept this, maintaining that DRB provided 
advice throughout  his relationship with it across all aspects  of their pension  and investments.
As no agreement could be reached  Im now providing a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr Q argues that he shouldve been  advised to apply for protections in 2014 or 2016, which  
wouldve preserved a higher LTA.  
Mr Q says that DRB was advising  him on his personal pension and SSAS benefits 
throughout his relationship with it. But based on the client agreements signed  by Mr Q and 
his brother on behalf of their business, DRB stated that it would arrange investments to be 
held in the SSAS but would not keep these under review. It said further advice  would be 
provided on request.  
Ive only seen evidence  of advice having  been provided to Mr Q as a trustee of the SSAS  in 
January 2013  and in a personal capacity in August 2014 in respect of a personal pension.
The suitability report of 21 January 2013 shows that advice was being sought by Mr Q and 
his brother in respect  of surrendering an existing  executive pension plan held in the SSAS 
and reinvesting  it in a collective  investment account. They also wanted to maintain the 
ongoing contributions,  which were £4,000  per month, to the new account. The suitability 
report stated:
You have confirmed that this is the only objective that you are prepared  to address at this 
time and do not wish to discuss  any other potential objectives.
So, at the time of this advice, which was limited  to surrendering an executive pension  plan 
and reinvesting  it in a collective  retirement  account,  I dont think  DRB couldve been  
expected to explore whether Mr Q would  likely  encounter  any issues with his LTA.  I say this 
particularly as DRB appears  to have been advising  Mr Q and his brother as trustees: the 
investments were held under the trust structure of the SSAS, so they didnt directly own 
them as members, but as trustees.  In fact, advising on their own indirect interests under the 
trusts of the SSAS is excluded from the list of regulated activities that can be considered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, as the SSAS is an occupational scheme. I would  refer to 
article 89(2) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 
2001.
Ref: DRN99363943Mr Q crystallised  his SSAS benefits  in October 2013, using around 52% of the LTA of 
£1.5million. DRB says it didnt provide  any advice  here and it was Mr Qs decision. Mr Q 
hasnt provided  any evidence to show he sought  or received advice when he decided  to take 
these benefits  in his capacity as a member, so I dont think there  was any grounds for DRB 
to advise him on his LTA.  And in any event,  at this time Mr Qs pension benefits were  valued 
at just over half of his LTA of £1.5m and he intended to make  further  contributions.  So, 
I dont think there wouldve been  good  reason  for DRB to advise Mr Q to apply for Fixed  
Protection 2014. He wasnt eligible to apply  for Individual Protection  2014 because his 
pension benefits  werent worth  in excess of £1.25m, and an application for Fixed  Protection 
2014 wouldve  prevented him making further  contributions. So, even if advice  was being 
provided to Mr Q (which I dont think it was), I dont think DRB  shouldve advised Mr Q to 
apply for any protection at this time.
Mr Q received advice from DRB  in August 2014  in respect of a personal  pension valued at 
around £60,000. As Mr Q intended to draw the maximum PCLS, DRB explored the effect of 
this on his LTA  it would use around  5%. However, DRB failed to mention that Mr Q had 
already used 52% of his LTA, and Im satisfied it knew he had done  so. So, it shouldve  
made it clear  to Mr Q that he had actually used around 57% of his LTA.
DRB informed Mr Q about the protections available and the tax charges that would be levied 
if he exceeded his LTA. It also explained  that if Mr Q had applied for Fixed Protection  2014 
he wouldnt  have been able to make further contributions.
At that time,  Mr Q could no longer apply for Fixed Protection 2014 as the deadline had 
passed. He could still have applied for Individual Protection 2014, but he wasnt  eligible to do 
so as his pension benefits were  still valued  at less than £1.25m. It wasnt known  until 
March 2015 that the LTA was going to be reduced further to £1m. So, at the point of the 
advice in August  2014, DRB  couldnt have advised Mr Q to apply for Fixed  Protection 2016.
The suitability report of August 2014  said that ongoing adviser  charges would apply to the 
retirement account selected, which  was a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).  The 
regulators Retail Distribution Review in January 2013 made  it clear  that advisers collecting 
ongoing charges were  to explain what service would be provided in return  for those charges. 
So here this wouldve included an annual review, which in my opinion,  wouldve  included 
considering the impact  of any changes on Mr Qs LTA. I think  Mr Q ought to have been 
invited to a review of this pension in or around August 2015.
Both parties  have said there was a breakdown  in the relationship between Mr Q and DRB/P  
and that Mr Q hadnt spoken to the business since around February 2015. However, as Mr Q 
was paying for an ongoing advised  service,  I still think he ought to have been  invited  to a 
review of his personal pension.
I asked DRB  to provide evidence that such an invitation had been made, but it hasnt  been  
able to show that it was. However, it made  the point that it didnt think it was likely  Mr Q 
wouldve attended. Mr Q rejects the idea that he didnt respond to meeting requests. But 
DRB provided examples of communication sent to Mr Q later on, which it didnt  receive a 
reply to. So, I think its quite possible Mr Q wouldve chosen not to engage  with this.
Nevertheless, Ive thought  about  what shouldve happened if the review  of the personal 
pension had taken  place on or around August 2015.  At this point, DRB wouldve known that 
the LTA was decreasing to £1million from 5 April 2016. So, I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to consider the impact  of this change on Mr Q as part of this review.
Ref: DRN99363944I dont know exactly what Mr Qs SSAS benefits were in August 2015, but I know  that on 
1 April 2016 he had a fund value of £927,864.60, with £127,244.04 of uncrystallised benefits 
in the SSAS. And between September 2015  and April 2016 Mr Q made  contributions of 
£43,400, so in August 2015 it wouldve been around  £884,464.  It would actually have been 
less than this - Ive simply deducted  the contributions as I havent  been  able to account for 
the growth he experienced in between. 
I think DRB wouldve  known Mr Q wouldnt  have  been eligible  to apply for Individual 
Protection 2016 as his benefits were not going to be valued at more  than £1m on 
5 April 2016. However, I do think that he probably ought to have  been  advised to apply for 
Fixed Protection 2016 when  it became  available,  given the potential for further growth. It is 
evident Mr Q isnt eligible  to apply for Fixed Protection 2016  now as he continued to make 
contributions to the SSAS after 5 April 2016.
For this reason, Ive thought about  whether  Mr Q has lost out as a result of not being advised  
to apply for Fixed Protection 2016.
At this point, Mr Q had 43% of his LTA remaining,  which  wouldve equalled around £537,500  
if protected at £1.25million. But as he didnt  apply for protection,  this equalled  around  
£430,000 once the LTA was reduced  to £1million. On 1 April 2016 Mr Q had uncrystallised 
benefits of £127,244.04. So, his funds (both crystallised and uncrystallised) wouldve needed 
to grow by another £300,000 by the next Benefit Crystallisation Event (BCE) to trigger a tax 
charge. Mr Q has said this wouldve been  achieved because of the rental income being 
brought in by the properties held in the SSAS. But this would be dependent on having  
tenants and that cant  necessarily  be guaranteed.
There is also an onus on Mr Q to mitigate  the potential impact of this by limiting  his 
contributions or taking  withdrawals from the crystallised part of his pension  to reduce the 
overall growth it will have achieved since the first BCE. Mr Q has told us he doesnt  need to 
take income from the pension as it was always intended to provide an inheritance  for his 
children free of inheritance tax (IHT). But there  are a number of ways  that Mr Q could pass 
value to his children without an IHT charge  when  he dies.
Ive also thought about the impact of the increases to the LTA since it was reduced  to 
£1million. At present, the LTA is £1,073,100. However, the Chancellor recently announced 
that the increase to the LTA has been frozen until April 2026. Mr Q has said he has no 
intention of taking  any income from the SSAS.  So, it seems more  likely than not that the next 
BCE will occur on Mr Qs 75th birthday in September 2032.
Assuming that the LTA rises with inflation  from April 2026, Im satisfied that the LTA will most 
likely exceed  £1.25million by September 2032. I have based this on inflation likely  being 
higher than 2.2% from 2026, which is a fair assumption based on the Bank  of Englands  
forecasted rates of inflation (UK instantaneous implied inflation forward curve) from 2026 
onwards  around 3%. Even if inflation is currently running lower than this, these  forecasts 
show it is likely to be higher by 2026.  So, for this reason,  I dont think Mr Q will likely suffer 
any more of a tax charge than he always would have, when his remaining benefits are 
crystallised.
Mr Q is also unhappy about an incident where  P allegedly  took unauthorised fees. However, 
I cant consider this complaint against  DRB (the financial advisers) because the fees were 
Ref: DRN99363945taken by P, the SSAS administrator. P is not regulated  by the FCA, so it isnt a complaint we 
can consider.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9936394