K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix Life) advised  her to invest 
in an ISA Bonus Account that was unsuitable  for her.
background
Mrs H and her husband  met an adviser in July 2001 to discuss  their financial circumstances. 
Mrs H was advised to invest £40 each month into an ISA Bonus Account. The account is a 
savings plan and the monthly premiums are invested in a with-profits  fund. 
The account  is not time limited, and penalties for cashing in the plan are only incurred during 
the first five years. In 2011, Mrs H made  a partial  cash withdrawal of £4000. Her account is 
still active.  
Mrs H complains that the ISA Bonus Account was an unsuitable investment for her. 
Her representatives have  said she was advised  to invest  too much each month, given her 
income, expenditure and savings. They say Mrs H was advised  to take a greater degree of 
risk than she wanted.   
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint. He thought the account was suitable  for 
Mrs H, given her circumstances,  experience  and investment objectives.  Mrs H disagrees and 
so Ive been asked to make a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key point I need to look at is whether the ISA account was a suitable  investment for 
Mrs H at the time Phoenix Life advised her.
Phoenix Life have  provided a copy of a fact find document completed by their adviser  during  
the meeting with Mrs H and her husband. The fact find included  information about their 
circumstances and financial situation. The adviser  also discussed with Mrs H her investment  
objectives and how much she had available to save.
Mrs H was approaching  forty and had two dependent children. Both she and her husband 
were working. According to the fact find, they had surplus funds of about £95 each month. 
They had other savings and investments of £1500, and Mrs H had access to readily 
available emergency  funds in another account.
Mrs H told the adviser her objective was to build up a lump sum as a nest egg, and she 
could afford  to save £40 a month.  The fact find recorded Mrs Hs attitude to risk for her 
savings as cautious  and said she wanted  to invest for 10 years.  When  the adviser  wrote  to 
Mrs H after the meeting he said she wanted to save in a fund that provided security  for the 
money she was investing and protected  any growth  achieved. 
Ive looked at the information Phoenix Life have provided about the ISA Bonus account.  
Mrs Hs savings would have been  invested in a with-profits fund. Phoenix Life say the aim of 
the fund was to achieve  the highest  possible return without taking unnecessary risks.  
Ref: DRN99002792The fund invested  in a range of assets   including company shares, property bonds, cash 
and alternative investments. Phoenix  Life say the fund was suitable  for investors  with a 
cautious attitude to risk. 
I agree  the ISA Bonus account was a suitable  investment for Mrs H. As long as she didnt 
withdraw funds during  the first five years, Mrs H was guaranteed to receive back all the 
money shed invested plus any bonuses that had been added. Given what  Mrs H had said 
about her objective  to build up a nest egg, I think she was prepared to tie her money up in 
this way for at least five years.  
The return  on Mrs Hs money would depend  on the performance of the investment fund. 
The fund invested  across a broad range of mainly lower risk assets. From what  Ive seen, 
I think the ISA had the potential to meet Mrs Hs objectives and was suitable for her. 
Mrs Hs representative has said she had no previous  investment  experience.  Ive taken 
account of that. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I think  the ISA Bonus account was 
suitable for her bearing in mind  the amount of risk she was able and willing to take. And I 
think Phoenix Life explained to her the potential downsides she needed to be aware of. 
They told her shed  have  to pay a penalty  if she withdrew money in the first five years.  
And they explained  that, while her initial investment was protected, her return would depend 
on the performance of the fund. 
Ive also looked  at whether Mrs H could afford  to save  £40 a month. This was the minimum 
monthly investment  required to open  the ISA Bonus account.
The adviser asked  Mrs H and her husband about their monthly income and expenditure. 
They identified that they had surplus funds of £95 a month, and could afford to save £40 a 
month. Mrs H and her husband  said their disposable income was unlikely to change  in the 
next 12 months, and they had some other savings. 
So I think the investment  was affordable  for Mrs H. And she knew how much shed be saving 
and seemed happy to do so for the purpose  of building  up a nest egg. Although  £40 was 
quite a large proportion of her disposable income,  the investment wasnt  particularly risky 
and Mrs H was unlikely  to lose the money shed put in. 
Overall, I think the investment recommended by Phoenix Life was suitable for Mrs H, and so 
Im unable to uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint 
against Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9900279