K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank, 
(Northern Bank) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan they 
took out in 2004. They  want it to refund them all the premiums they paid for the policy, plus 
interest. 
 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Northern  Bank had mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs C and didnt recommend that it should 
give them  any money back. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicator  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  their case, so it has come to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr and Mrs Cs case.  Ive looked  into everything that Mr and Mrs C and 
Northern Bank have told us or sent us about it and Ive decided  not to uphold it. I explain 
why below.
 
Between 1996 and 2005, Mr and Mrs C took out three loans with Northern Bank. The first 
and third loans, taken in 1996 and 2005, seem  to have been  linked to each other.  However, 
the second loan was separate.  This decision only covers the second loan. We will consider  
the other two separately. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us that Northern Bank never  told them about PPI when they took the 
loan. However, Northern Bank has told us that it arranged the loan and sold the PPI policy  
during a phone  call and says it made it clear that PPI was optional during the call. It has sent 
us a copy of the credit  agreement which Mr and Mrs C completed after the phone  call which  
I think supports its case. 
The agreement had a brief section about  PPI, which Northern  Bank called a Home  Owners 
Personal Loan Protection Plan.  This section was separate from information about  the loan 
itself and gave  customers a choice to take or decline  PPI by ticking one of two boxes. The 
text alongside  the first box said:
 
Yes. I/we wish to select cover as recommended and confirm that I/we have read 
and understood  the eligibility  requirements  and major benefits.
And the text alongside the second  box said: 
No. I/we do not wish to select.. 
Mr and Mrs C have ticked first box and have both signed the agreement nearby. So it seems 
to me that Northern  Bank  gave  them a choice to take the loan with or without PPI and they 
chose to take it.
Ref: DRN98327982Northern Bank has told us that it would have explained the cost of PPI to Mr and Mrs C 
during the phone call. It has also sent us examples  of the paperwork it used to set out the 
cost of PPI alongside agreements  of the type Mr and Mrs C signed.  
There isnt any recording of Northern  Banks  phone call with Mr and Mrs C, so I dont know 
for sure what it said to them. But Ive looked  at the example paperwork and again I think  it 
supports Northern Banks case that it explained  the cost of PPI to Mr and Mrs C. Taking 
everything into account, I think its likely that Northern Bank told Mr and Mrs C how much 
they would  need to pay for PPI before they bought  it. 
Northern Bank has told us that it recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs C and advised them to 
take it. This meant that it had to check that the policy was right for them and tell them  about  
it clearly and fairly so they could decide  if they wanted it. 
As there is no call recording, I cant tell what questions, if any, Northern  Bank asked Mr and 
Mrs C about their situation and potential need for insurance before  it recommended  PPI to 
them. So Ive looked at the policys features and what I know  about  Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time, to see if it was reasonable  for Northern  Bank to make its 
recommendation. 
The policy only covered  Mr C, who was the main wage earner, but Mr and Mrs C took the 
loan jointly, so where relevant Ive considered Mrs Cs circumstances as well as Mr Cs.
The policy had eligibility rules, which Mr C met, and he doesnt seem to have been caught by 
any of its main exclusions and limitations. Mr and Mrs C seem to have been able to afford 
the policys premiums and if they had lost Mr Cs income they didnt  have many  alternative 
ways to repay their loan.  Mr C may have been  entitled to some  sick pay if he was off work  ill, 
but the policy would have  paid out over and above this entitlement and could have  lasted for 
longer. It would also have paid out if he was made redundant. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us that they had some  savings and could have used these to repay 
the loan. But they may have wanted these for other things and the policy  could have helped 
them keep their savings  set aside for these other uses.
So I think Mr and Mrs C had a potential need for PPI and it could  have been  useful  for them.  
I think it was reasonable  for Northern Bank to recommend the policy  to them.
 
I accept that its quite possible that Northern  Bank  didnt explain everything to Mr and Mrs C 
as well as it should  have done.  But Im satisfied that it gave them a choice about the policy,  
that they werent affected by its main  exclusions or limitations, that they had a potential need 
for the cover and could afford it. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have decided not to 
buy it even if Northern  Bank had explained  everything properly. I dont think Northern Bank 
mis-sold PPI to Mr and Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN98327983my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  about 
Northern Bank Plc, trading as Danske Bank.  I am not going to tell it to give them  any money  
back.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9832798