K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bradford and Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint mortgage in 1997.  The policy  was taken out in Mr Rs name only 
(not Mrs Rs name)  at the same time.  They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £150.00 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. It was free for the first six months and 
then it cost £9.76 a month. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as a marine fitter. He has told us he was entitled  to at least  
six months full sick pay from his employer. He said he didnt have any savings  but he would 
have received death in service benefit worth twice his salary  and redundancy  pay. As part of 
the mortgage application B&B wrote  to Mr Rs employers  and it has provided a copy letter 
which confirms Mr Rs would receive basic sick pay for 50 days  and half pay for 40 days of 
accident and sickness benefits in excess of statutory sick pay. Mr R has said he suffered 
with stress in around 1994 but he hasnt told us it was ongoing or that it caused  him to take 
prolonged periods off work and I can see that B&B confirmed it had spoken to Mr R and he 
confirmed in that conversation he hadnt  had to take time off work.
Mr and Mrs R later applied for a further advance and confirmed in that application they had 
an existing PPI policy and requested  an increase in cover by £50 per month.  
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2001. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
 
B&B failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Rs 
representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means B&B should have told Mr 
and Mrs R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr and Mrs R and the impact 
they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  
be most  needed; and
Ref: DRN99045892The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  about 
the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN99045893I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances. 
-Whether B&B gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them  to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R suffered 
loss or damage  and what  I consider  would  amount  to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Ref: DRN99045894did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
B&B has been able to provide the paperwork from the time of the sale.  In particular the 
mortgage application and insurance proposal  form has a section which is headed Payment  
Protection Insurance for Injury, Illness and Unemployment.  This section states Do you wish 
to take advantage of the security and reassurance offered by the Societys Payment 
Protection cover, and do you agree  to maintain  this valuable cover the 6 months period 
mentioned to ensure the continuing protection of your mortgage payments(yes/no). Mr and 
Mrs R have written  Yes  next to this question.  If they hadnt wanted  it, I think they more likely 
would have written  no here.
I can see they have  also selected the cover they required with a tick to show Mr R only 
wanted cover for injury, illness and unemployment,  not injury and illness only, which was 
another option given on the form. And the amount of cover has also been chosen  as £150. 
Mr and Mrs R have signed  and dated  the form. I can also see Mr and Mrs R made other  
choices on the form about other insurance  on offer.
As they were taking  on a new financial commitment, I think  its more likely they read the form 
before signing  and understood they were taking out the PPI.
The subsequent mortgage offer also confirms that Mr R had taken out the PPI in his name.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs R havent said whether this 
was an advised  sale or not  its understandable if Mr and Mrs R cant  remember exactly  
what happened now after such a long time.  Looking at what happened when B&B sold Mr 
and Mrs R the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. Theres nothing  in the 
evidence which makes  me think a tailored recommendation was made  for the PPI or which  
indicates they were  advised to buy the policy.
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr R 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. The premium was free for the first six months and then it cost £9.76.The 
mortgage offer referred to the payment protection insurance and that the total monthly 
payment would be altered to include this amount.
Ref: DRN99045895Whilst I can see that the mortgage  offer does  refer to a summary of cover which Mr and 
Mrs Rs attention was drawn to, the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether 
B&B gave sufficient information about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs R 
agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs R suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs R. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs R would have still taken out the policy, had B&B done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs R says they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr R being unable to work. 
Ref: DRN99045896As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs R thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs R have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs R were given  about  the benefit was clear  this was chosen  on 
the application form. And although the copy  of the mortgage offer isnt so clear I can see its 
likely the cost was set out in the mortgage offer  that it would be free for six months and 
thereafter the total monthly payment would be altered to include the cost of the policy.  The 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy although  as I said above  it does  look to me as if this was set out in 
the mortgage offer. Having said that, even if B&B didnt give the exact cost,  it seems  likely 
Mr and Mrs R would  have been told the cost before the policy  started after the six months of 
free cover expired and they paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to injury or illness of which Mr R was aware or 
sought treatment  for during the two years before the policy  commenced. This 
exclusion ceased to apply when Mr R had been insured under the policy for two 
years and had two consecutive years  without treatment or medical advice for the 
injury or illness.
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more  
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job or business  or any other  gainful employment or business for which  he 
was fitted by knowledge or training.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN99045897I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs R pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them.  Mr R was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr R told us he had suffered with stress in 
1994, the policy only excluded medical conditions for which  Mr R was aware or sought 
treatment for during  the two years before the policy commenced. This exclusion ceased  to 
apply when Mr R had been insured under the policy for two years and had two consecutive 
years without treatment or medical advice for the injury or illness.  It doesnt seem hed had to 
take time off work for stress and it also looks like he hadnt had any ongoing treatment. From 
what hes told us I dont  think  the stress he suffered  in 1994 would have been the reason 
hed have thought he needed  to take time off work for. So even if hed had better 
information, I dont  think hed have changed his mind about buying the policy.   And  I havent  
seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been  caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions. So, I still think he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain is a common problem and the steps required to make a disability  claim for 
these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs R might  reasonably  have expected. But 
its unlikely they would  have expected to be able to make  a disability claim without having to 
provide some evidence  to support  that claim. And while  this limitation might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs R from taking  out the policy, 
Mr and Mrs R, in their circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs R had known Mr R could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his 
job, any business or any gainful  employment which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be fitted by knowledge or training,  it might have  played  into their thinking about 
what they would have done.  And I accept it may have given them  pause  for thought   
although given  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances , on balance, I still think they would have  been  
interested in taking out the cover.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr R was guaranteed to have received full sick pay 
for and it seems likely  although  he had worked  in his employment for a long time that his  
statutory redundancy entitlement would  also have  been less than 12 months  income. In any 
event his sick pay would have been paid in addition to any claim he made and if he lost his 
job, Mr R could have kept his redundancy pay intact  or used it for any other important 
expenses. His death in service benefit was not the same thing as the PPI as it would have 
only paid out in the unfortunate event of his death.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr R be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Rs sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use.
Ref: DRN99045898Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr R was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would not have  
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position they would have been in if they had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN99045899Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision  before  28 February 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9904589