K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs D say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. They  
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £1363.30 was paid in advance by being  added to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 84 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan The monthly 
loan repayment  was £93.62 with the PPI costing an additional £25.52  making the total 
monthly repayment £119.14.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L only for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr L and Mrs Ds monthly  loan 
repayment for the remaining  term in the event  of a successful disability claim and up to 
12 months in the event  of unemployment.  
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as an engineer. He has told us he cant  remember  whether  
he was entitled  to any sick pay and he didnt have  any other means of repaying their loan 
should he be unable  to work  Mr L has said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account 2001.
Mr L and Mrs Ds representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr L and Mrs Ds representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr L and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr L and 
Mrs Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr L and Mrs D about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN94123412The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and 
Mrs D and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr L and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr L and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Mrs Ds 
complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN94123413The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr L and Mrs Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr L and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr L and Mrs D with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr L and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN94123414-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr L and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and Mrs D 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr L and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr L and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide says Mr L and Mrs D completed  an application form and chose to take it  its 
provided a copy of Mr L and Mrs Ds application form for me to consider.  
Looking at the application form,  there is a section about  PROTECTING  YOUR  
REPAYMENTS and under this there are two separate boxes to sign either yes or no for 
the policy. Mr L has signed in the yes box and the no box has been left blank. Both Mr L 
and Mrs D have signed the declaration confirming that they agree with the contents of the 
application.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L and Mrs D knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale and Mr L and Mrs D havent said 
anything to make me think it did.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L and Mrs D. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr L and 
Mrs D to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr L and Mrs D were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr L was unable to work  through accident, sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because the application  form explained what the cover  was for. And I think Mr L 
and Mrs D knew that the single premium being added to the loan was £1363.30 the interest  
added to the premium  was £780.38, the total cost was £2143.68 and the monthly cost was 
£25.52 (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mr L 
and Mrs D signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr L and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN94123415So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr L and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr L and Mrs Ds representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr L and 
Mrs Ds. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr L and Mrs Ds representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr L and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr L and Mrs D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr L and Mrs D? To what extent  
did Mr L and Mrs D suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr L 
and Mrs D. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr L and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide whether 
or not Mr L and Mrs D would have  still taken out the policy, had Nationwide  done  things 
properly. 
Mr L and Mrs D say they would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L and Mrs D had to weigh  up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN94123416As Ive found above, Mr L and Mrs D chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr L and 
Mrs D thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr L and Mrs D has suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
As Ive already  said, the information Mr L and Mrs D were given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr L and Mrs D would  get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr L and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Based on the closest policy documents available,  possibly the most significant differences 
between what Mr L and Mrs D thought they had bought and what they actually bought were 
the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr L 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and 
which reoccurs with in the first 12 months  of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr L and Mrs D pause for thought   and may well have caused  them  to conclude  
that the policy wasnt as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L and Mrs D 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr L and Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr L was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr L wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions as defined by the policy  terms and he was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L and Mrs D 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN94123417To make a disability claim, Mr L needed to be totally unable  to do any work. I dont think  this 
is likely  to be too different  to what they would have  expected to make  a claim. After all, the 
application form says the policy provides cover if youre unable to work  due to involuntary 
unemployment, accident, sickness or death. So it seems unlikely they would  have thought 
theyd been able to make a successful claim if Mr L was still working, whether that be in his 
normal job or any other job. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr L and Mrs D decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr L and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences were  Mr L was made redundant, or unable  to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr L and 
Mrs D would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr L and Mrs Ds representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L and Mrs D would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr L and 
Mrs Ds circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr L and Mrs D found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr L and Mrs D believes the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN94123418That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr L and Mrs D compensation, as that would put them in a better  
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr L and Mrs Ds representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Nationwide had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L and Mrs D in a better  position than if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9412341