K820x#14 
complaint
Mr T complains Ageas Insurance Limited  handled  claims on his breakdown policy  poorly and 
caused damage to his car.
background
Mr Ts car broke down  three times. On each occasion he used his Ageas breakdown policy 
to call out an engineer.  He says each time it misdiagnosed the problem with his car. He feels  
this resulted in the car needing significant additional  repair work, including a new engine. So 
he thinks Ageas should  cover those costs.
 
In response to Mr Ts complaint Ageas said due to the nature of breakdown assistance its 
unable to guarantee a fault will be diagnosed  correctly at the scene. It said it had made clear 
recommendations for further action. And it was Mr Ts garages  responsibility to determine 
the fault.  
Our investigator didnt  think Ageas had done anything wrong. Mr T didnt  accept that. So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Ageas 
cover the cost of any repairs to Mr Ts car or do anything differently.
Since the investigator initially considered  Mr Ts complaint hes provided new information. He 
now thinks his own garage was at fault for not diagnosing  a radiator leak.  But he still feels 
Ageas is also responsible  for telling him the problem was a thermostat. He adds that if 
Ageas told him it was the radiator he would  have had the problem repaired under the 
manufacturers warranty. 
Under Mr Ts policy Ageas was required to come to the scene of his breakdown.  The policy  
says if Ageas is unable  to repair  the vehicle at the scene it will arrange for it to be taken to 
the nearest garage.
On all three call outs Ageas said it couldnt provide a permanent  repair  to the car. On each 
occasion it gave  its opinion on what the problem  was. And each time Mr T said he was 
making his own arrangements to take the car to a garage.
Ageas says its roadside engineers only have  limited resources, so their diagnosis isnt 
always completely accurate. Because of that it was agreed Mr T would take the car to a 
garage. That seems  reasonable  to me. So even if Ageas  didnt diagnose the problem with 
the radiator it wouldnt  be reasonable to say it should cover the cost of further work.  
If wasnt Ageas fault if Mr T didnt take the car to a garage.  If he did, but the garage didnt 
accurately diagnose the problem for itself and do an effective repair, thats also not Ageas 
fault. So Im not going to make it cover  the cost of any repairs  to the car.  
Mr T wants Ageas to refund the cost of having his thermostat repaired.  He says it said it 
needed replacing, but its since  turned out it wasnt the problem. Im not going to make  
Ref: DRN97726632Ageas cover  that cost. I accept this matter is very frustrating for Mr T but if he thinks he had 
a repair  done  unnecessarily then he should  speak to the garage  that did it. 
  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Ageas  Insurance Limited  cover  the cost of any 
repairs to Mr Ts car or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9772663