K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs N bought  the policy in 2002  at the same  time as taking out a secured loan. They  
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch.
The loan was repayable over a 228-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £41.75 
with the PPI costing  an additional £5.14 making  the total monthly repayment £46.89 (albeit  
according to Nationwide the amount of £5 was charged for PPI until November 2003  when  it 
increased to £5.14.) The policy  didnt attract interest and could be cancelled  by either party  
with 30 days notice  without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr N as the first named  applicant  for accident, sickness, 
unemployment and life  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mr and 
Mrs Ns monthly  loan repayment for up to 24 months per claim in the event of a successful 
disability claim and 12 months in the event of unemployment. It would repay the outstanding  
loan balance  in the event  of death.
At the time,  Mr N (Ill focus  on his circumstances as the person covered by the policy)  was 
employed as a service  manager. He has told us he was entitled to at least three  months full 
sick pay and six months  redundancy pay. Mr N has said he didnt have any other means  
such as savings for example - of repaying  their loan should he be unable to work. In his PPI 
questionnaire submitted  by Mr and Mrs Ns representative, Mr N said he had a medical 
condition some time before the sale.  Ill come  back to this later on. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2005  after Mr 
and Mrs N repaid the loan early. I can see that Mr and Mrs Ns PPI policy  wasnt  cancelled 
until several months later in error   but Nationwide refunded the excess premiums  in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ns representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs N 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ns representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN91584592The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs N about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs N 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The information Mr and Mrs N received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN91584593This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.) 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs N with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN91584594-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs N, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs N 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs N 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs N know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ns loan agreement. Looking  at this I can see 
that the cost of the PPI was set out separately from the monthly  loan repayment  and was 
described as Optional  Credit Insurance. I dont consider this was any less prominent  than 
the other key information on the agreement, so I think Mr and Mrs N wouldve seen in. They 
also signed the overall loan agreement,  so in the context of a branch meeting I think they 
wouldve most likely queried  this if it didnt accord  with their understanding.
So taking everything into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something very different happened - I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs N knew  the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr and Mrs N havent said either  
way. But looking at what happened when Nationwide  sold Mr and Mrs N the PPI - and based 
on how we understand sales like Mr and Mrs Ns were  carried out - Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs N to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Nationwide has provided us with a sales script, which it says is indicative of how Mr and Mrs 
Ns sale wouldve likely been conducted. But Im mindful that this post-dates Mr and Mrs Ns 
sale  so I dont  think I can fairly  and reasonably  place much weight on this. 
Notwithstanding this, Im satisfied its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs N were  given  a 
broad description of what the policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would 
protect their payments if Mr and Mrs N was unable to work  through accident, sickness and 
disability.) Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely in the context of a branch 
meeting Mr and Mrs N would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy  
was for. Im satisfied they understood the cost because as I said above  it appeared clearly 
on the loan agreement they were  presented with for signing.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs N agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN91584595So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ns. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ns representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs N about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs N has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs N? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs N suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs N. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs N suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs N would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs N says they would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. As this was a non-advised sale,  Mr and 
Mrs N had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of the policy against the benefits offered 
and the potential consequences  if they didnt insure  against the risk of being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, I think Mr and Mrs N chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs N thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs N have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Ref: DRN91584596The information Mr and Mrs N were given  about  the cost was clear  as I said this featured  
clearly on their loan agreement. But the information  about other  aspects of the policy,  such  
as the actual benefit and the limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been.  
In terms of the benefit - while Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly  what  Mr and 
Mrs N would get back in return  in the event  they made a successful claim,  I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Ns expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their loan payments) were significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs N thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr N knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy,  or anything  he 
received advice or treatment about  in the 12 months  before the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months for disability and 12 months for 
employment, rather than the remaining term of the secured loan.  
.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs N pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs N from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr N was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to them both should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. In relation to Mr Ns health at the time - while Mr N has 
told us he had a medical procedure  around seven years prior to the sale,  Nationwides 
evidence of a phone  call it had with Mr N during its investigation of the complaint is that Mr N 
said this was a one-off  matter with no ongoing  problems.
Im mindful too that the procedure Mr N had, is carried out to rectify a condition  it is not in 
and of itself a medical condition. So taking everything into account,  I consider Mr N was to all 
intents and purposes in good health at the time of the sale. Mr N was also in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
Nationwide may not have  told Mr and Mrs N that any claim they made would  be limited to a 
24-month period  for disability and 12 months  for unemployment.  This may have differed from 
what they expected and might have hoped for  but these  periods were longer period than 
Mr N would have received full sick pay for and his statutory redundancy entitlement was also 
significantly less than 12 months income.
Ref: DRN91584597In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs N would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 or 24 monthly  mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr N be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. Im mindful too that the loan was secured on their 
home, so I think they wouldve wanted  to protect  that. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr N would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr N needed  to be unable to do any other work as certified by a 
doctor. I dont think this is likely to be too different   if at all - to what  he would have expected 
to make a claim. It seems unlikely he would have thought  hed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if he was still working.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr and Mrs N made redundant, or unable to work  through  
accident or disability  notwithstanding their employee benefits. In the circumstances  I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs N would have taken out the policy in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs N would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ns circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
and Mrs N found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs N believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN91584598Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs N in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs N compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ns representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs N in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9158459