K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains, on behalf  of the estate  of the late Mr B, that TenetConnect Services  
Limited (TCS) provided Mr B with inappropriate advice when he took some  pension 
benefits. 
background
Mr B sadly  passed away in 2018.  So this complaint  is brought  on behalf of his estate by his 
wife, and executor,  Mrs B. The advice that was provided to Mr B was from a firm of financial 
advisors who were an appointed representative of TCS.  So the responsibility for the advice 
sat with TCS. Although  Mr and Mrs B had no dealings with TCS directly, for simplicity, I will 
refer to TCS as the responsible business  throughout this decision.
In 2018 Mr B had three personal pension plans. He approached TCS to seek  advice and 
assistance in taking some of his pension benefits.  He had no previous relationship with TCS 
and made  contact with the company after finding  its contact details on a third party website. 
Following a review of Mr Bs circumstances  TCS advised him to take his pension benefits in 
the form of a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) and an annuity,  that was enhanced 
due to Mr Bs medical history.
Mr B sadly  died less than two years  after the annuity  had been put into payment. Mrs B has 
complained that her late husband had only wanted  to be able to access a lump sum from the 
pension benefits  and had no need, at that time, of any additional income. So she now 
believes it might  have  been more appropriate  for TCS to have advised her husband  to make 
use of the changes in pension legislation  that were introduced in 2015  and use a flexible 
drawdown approach  instead.
This complaint has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She thought  that the advice 
TCS had given to Mr B was suitable,  and in line with his recorded needs  at the time. So she 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mrs B and by TCS. Where the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts, I have  made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
It seems  that Mr and Mrs B met with TCS early  in 2016. Following that meeting,  and some  
follow up discussions by email, TCS sent a letter to Mr B setting  out its recommendations for 
how he might take his pension benefits. The recommendation it gave was for Mr B to take a 
PCLS along with an annuity. The annuity it recommended was enhanced due to Mr Bs 
Ref: DRN98095542medical history, and provided a five year guarantee. But it didnt provide any benefits  for 
Mrs B, his spouse, in the event of Mr Bs death.
I have no way of knowing  what  Mr and Mrs B discussed with TCS in their initial meeting. And 
that gives me great difficulty  in deciding this complaint. The recommendation letter that was 
sent to Mr B recorded  that his objectives  were to maximise his pension income and to take a 
PCLS. But Mrs B says that Mr B was only interested in taking a PCLS   she says he was still 
working full time and had no need of any additional  income at that time. And ultimately 
resolving those different  recollections is what will decide this complaint.
On the basis of the requirements that it recorded, it seems to me that the recommendation 
TCS gave was appropriate. It sought,  on the basis of Mr Bs medical history, an enhanced 
annuity rate across the market.  And in line with maximising  that income the annuity didnt 
include any benefits for Mrs B in the event of her husbands death.  The recommendation 
also provided for Mr B taking the maximum PCLS that the regulations at that time allowed.
I have considered that Mr Bs medical  history enabled him to receive an enhanced annuity. 
But looking  at the medical information  he provided  at the time he recorded that his ability  to 
perform day to day tasks had been stable (with  no or minimal change) for the past five years. 
And TCS has told us that the improvement to the annuity rate that was given to Mr B was 
small, suggesting that the provider didnt  consider  Mr Bs health conditions  to be particularly 
significant in terms  of limiting his lifespan. I havent seen anything  that makes  me think  Mr B 
wasnt likely to benefit from the annuity  over a number of years  to come.
Looking at what Mrs B has told us  that Mr B only required a PCLS  rather  than additional 
income at that time - a flexible drawdown  approach might have been more  suitable. But of 
course for TCS to make that recommendation, Mr B would need to have  told it that was his 
requirement.
TCS has told us that it wouldnt normally be considered appropriate for its advisors  to 
recommend the use of a flexible drawdown where the overall  pension  savings were less 
than £50,000.  That applies here since Mr Bs pension savings were around £40,000. So I do 
have some concern  that this option  might have been discounted even though  it could have 
been appropriate for Mr Bs needs  at that time. If that had been the case I would have  
expected that to have been clearly  set out for Mr B so he could decide whether to disregard 
the recommendation or seek help from an alternative advisor to take his benefits.
But I havent seen  anything that makes  me think that Mr B did set out that requirement to 
TCS. He was given  a copy of the recommendation by letter - rather than in a face to face 
meeting  so allowing him time to consider his options without the time pressure of needing 
to make an instant decision.  And that recommendation letter  did clearly set out the dual 
objectives that were  being achieved  both to take a PCLS and to maximise  the income the 
pension would pay. And it noted that if Mr Bs circumstances had changed since  the initial 
meeting he should  get in touch as that might affect the suitability of the advice. So I think 
Mr B would have known he needed to get in touch  with TCS if the letter didnt correctly 
reflect his requirements  at that time.
So on balance I cannot conclude that the recommendation  TCS gave  to Mr B was 
inappropriate given  what it knew about his circumstances and what  hed said about his 
requirements. I appreciate  how disappointing  my decision  will be to Mrs B and I can only 
apologise for the additional upset that I know it will cause to her. But it doesnt seem to me 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN98095543my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
TenetConnect Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B, on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mr B, to accept or reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9809554