K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs L have  much paperwork  from the time of sale,  but given 
how long ago the policy was sold, thats not unreasonable. But where I have limited 
information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely based  on the limited 
documents that are available and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs L dont recall  buying the PPI or receiving  any documentation about it, but they 
havent said much more than that which is understandable given how long ago this policy 
was sold. But I have  to bear in mind that this sale happened around 20 years ago now and 
even the best of memories can fade over that time frame. So while  Ive thought  carefully 
about what Mr and Mrs L have said, I dont think itd be reasonable to uphold  a complaint 
solely based on limited  recollections from 20 years  ago. So Ive also taken into consideration 
the limited documents that are available in addition to their testimony. 
Santander says it wouldve  made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and asked for Mr and 
Mrs L to agree to it before adding it to their account.  Ive seen  a welcome letter  Santander 
says was sent to Mr and Mrs L which made it clear theyd bought  PPI and it also set out their 
cancellation rights  if they had changed  their minds  about wanting  PPI. It had an insurance  
schedule attached which set out the monthly cost and benefit  of the policy.  Had they not 
agreed to take the PPI, I would have  expected  them to have raised  this on receipt of the 
welcome letter.  
I also understand Mr and Mrs L only bought the unemployment cover when they couldve 
bought more extensive cover including accident  and sickness benefit as well as 
unemployment. So they appear  to have exercised a degree of consideration and choice. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely Santander made  it clear  
Mr and Mrs L didnt have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out, but given how 
long ago this policy was purchased, I understand why they dont remember  buying it. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they were  eligible  for the PPI and they werent affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr and Mrs L seem to have had a need  for the cover. Mr and Mrs L say they had good sick 
pay provided by their employers but this appears  to have been taken into account as they 
didnt buy accident  and sickness cover. They only bought unemployment cover. And while 
Ref: DRN94071772they say they had some other  means  such as savings and redundancy pay, this policy 
wouldve paid out on top of their employee benefits for up to 12 months  if theyd lost their 
jobs. And having the policy would allow them to use their savings on other essential 
expenditure at what couldve been a difficult time financially. So I think  the PPI couldve been  
useful for them.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said including that they had secure jobs so 
didnt need PPI. But insurance  is taken  out to cover  them for the unexpected and, it provides 
peace of mind that if something does go wrong, the insurance will be there to protect them. 
So this doesnt  change my conclusions. Overall,  I dont think this policy  was mis-sold so 
Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs L paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ls PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ls commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs L back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9407177