K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that, because he was provided  with an incorrect  valuation  by Suffolk Life 
Pensions Limited (Suffolk Life) for a commercial property held within  his self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP),  he lost out on investment opportunities. He says he had to hold 
more of his money  in cash  to maintain the overall  balance of his portfolio because of the 
delay in making him aware of the corrected valuation. He wants to be compensated for the 
investment loss he says he suffered during this delay.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 May 2020   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In summary  Mr I held a commercial property,  as part of a syndicate,  within  his SIPP. In 2017  
Suffolk Life was obliged to conduct  a lifetime allowance test for one of the members  and 
carried out a valuation of the property. Mr I questioned the accuracy  of the valuation  and 
subsequently an amended report was provided  to Suffolk  Life in early  2018  which showed 
a difference in valuations of £144,686. Mr I wasnt made aware of the corrected valuation 
until June 2018.  
Mr I complained. He said the incorrect information  hed been provided with on 
31 December 2017 meant hed had to retain more cash in his overall investments to take 
account of what  seemed  like a loss in the value of the property. He said his investment 
strategy had been  affected and this had a financial impact on him.  Suffolk  Life didnt accept 
that Mr Is investments had been  adversely affected as a result of the incorrect valuation, but 
did accept that it had been  slow to chase  up the valuations and to provide a corrected SIPP  
report. 
One of our adjudicators thought Suffolk  Lifes offer of £100 plus some wine (or the equivalent 
cash value) for its delays,  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But he thought  
there was compelling  evidence to show that Mr I knew the valuation  was incorrect  and 
therefore shouldnt  have relied  on it to form his investment strategy  for the year ahead.  
Mr I said, although he believed the valuation to be incorrect, he had no evidence  that it was 
and so he was deprived of using the difference between the two valuations  as funds to 
invest. He thought Suffolk Life had admitted its error and that hed demonstrated  a loss of 
investment opportunity. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed so it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
why Suffolk Lifes offer had been  fair and reasonable. I made the following points in support 
of the decision:
Suffolk Life wasnt responsible for carrying out the valuation, but it had a duty to 
report the results as soon as possible.  So it hadnt acted  reasonably by not informing 
Mr I of the revised valuation until four months  after it was made  aware.
But I thought  Mr Is adviser had been  aware  of the revised valuation  in a telephone 
call in February 2018, so he ought  to have been aware of the correct figure when he 
met Mr I to discuss  a forthcoming  investment strategy.
However, Suffolk Life did delay in advising  Mr I of the revised figure  and should 
have chased up the first valuation in 2017,  so it was right that it should pay 
compensation for these errors. The amount paid seemed fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN99661682I wasnt persuaded that Mr Is investment decisions were influenced by the lower  
property valuation. It appeared  that the money  Mr I said hed ring fenced not to invest 
because of the lower  valuation  was set aside before he was made aware  of the 
incorrect valuation and was only for about half the value of what Mr I believed the 
shortfall between the two valuations to be.
When Mr I contacted  Suffolk Life in January 2018, he said it was because he 
believed the first valuation to be incorrect  by around £200,000. So, it seemed that 
Mr I was aware of the likely true valuation and I didnt think,  on balance, that his 
investment planning should have been  affected.
Mr Is ring fenced funds remained uninvested six months after the valuation had 
been corrected.  I said I would  have expected Mr I to have invested the funds shortly 
after he was made aware of the corrected valuation.  
I invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Suffolk Life didnt want to provide any further  information for me to consider and said it 
accepted the provisional decision. But it did confirm the value of the wine it offered as part of 
the compensation to be around £50, which it confirmed Mr I hadnt accepted. And it also 
confirmed that it no longer  held a recording of the telephone conversation  it had with Mr Is 
adviser in February  2018. 
But Mr I didnt agree  and made the following points:
His complaint wasnt that he wasnt able to change his investment strategy following 
the incorrect valuation,  but that he was forced  to hold higher levels of cash to keep 
his overall strategy balanced. 
When he met his adviser  in April 2018 it noted  that the property valuation it was 
working to was from 4 April 2017  which was an estimated figure until Suffolk Life 
was able to provide  the correct up to date valuation. So, he thought it would have  
been wrong for his adviser to make any recommendations without empirical  
evidence of the valuation. 
Suffolk Life didnt provide the amended financial report, which included the correct 
valuation, until 26 June  2018.  His adviser  wouldnt therefore  have been  able to 
provide appropriate advice until this date. His assertion was that the error,  but also 
the delay in correcting the error,  led to his loss of investment opportunity.
He didnt think my reference to his investment decisions  in 2017, which hed provided 
as background  information, meant  that he hadnt lost investment opportunities. He 
said it was clear  he had cash left over to invest in 2018 because  Suffolk  Life had 
delayed in providing a correct valuation  for the property within his SIPP.   
The syndicate Id referred  to, was a collection of individuals  who simply had a 
collective interest  in the commercial  property. It didnt have a co-ordinated approach  
to Suffolk  life.
My suggestion that he hadnt invested  the ring fenced funds more than six months 
after he was made aware of the correct valuation   and so hadnt  mitigated his 
potential investment, was irrelevant as his portfolio was constantly being rebalanced.
In summary he said that Suffolk Life had sent him an annual report which  contained a 
significant error which hed challenged within five days.  But he said it took Suffolk  Life 
five months to correct  that error and during that time he held cash  which  he could  
have invested  if hed been aware of the correct valuation of his SIPP.  So, he thinks  
he should be compensated  for the loss of this investment  opportunity for that five-
month period.
Ref: DRN99661683my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully considered  everything  Mr I 
has said, and I understand his strength  of feeling about this matter as well as his frustration 
that Suffolk  Life did make errors and cause delays, which he thinks directly  led to him 
missing investment opportunities. But having looked  at everything again, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I came to in my provisional  decision  so Ill explain  my reasons.
Theres no dispute here that Suffolk  Life was aware that the valuation  of the commercial 
property might be incorrect  when Mr I contacted it in January 2018  following  receipt  of his 
annual SIPP statement. Indeed, Mr I gave specific reasons for why the valuation was 
probably wrong. And Ive seen that shortly afterwards Suffolk Life asked the valuer  to review 
his report. So, its clear Suffolk  Life acted unreasonably in not making Mr I aware  of the 
correction that was made in February 2018 until June 2018.  Although  Ive suggested  that it 
did speak to Mr Is adviser  in February 2018,  which Ill come back  to later.  
But, based on these  facts, Suffolk Life did leave  Mr I without a confirmed correct valuation  
for around  four months. And Mr I says that during these four months  he was unable  to invest  
funds that hed had to leave in cash to keep his overall investment portfolio correctly 
balanced. So its possible  that Suffolk Life might  be responsible for the potential loss of 
investment opportunities that Mr B may have  suffered during this period. Suffolk Life hasnt 
been able to provide any justification  for not answering  directly to Mr I - his query about the 
valuation in a timely  manner, and if it had then Mr I wouldnt  have  lost out on potential 
investment opportunities.
But there is a mitigating  factor  here  the conversation which  was held with Mr Is financial 
adviser in February  2018.
Mr I said he wasnt  sure that his adviser  had spoken  with Suffolk Life in February 2018, but 
in any case that wasnt empirical evidence  of the property valuation,  and he knew  that the 
adviser used the most recent valuation from April 2017 in their face to face advice  meeting  in 
2018. He disputed whether advice should  have  been given without surety of the valuation (in 
written form). And I accept Mr Is point  that an adviser should only make recommendations 
when theyre happy with the information  theyve gathered or been provided with.   
Suffolk Life has been unable to provide a recording  of its telephone conversation  with Mr Is 
adviser as it said all recordings are deleted after two years. But it did provide a copy  of the 
notes its adviser made at the time, which said, I confirmed breakdown of plan valuation . 
Ive no reason to dispute the validity of those notes which I assume would have reflected the 
conversation that was held. And this was after the property had been revalued  on the basis  
of Mr Is query. 
So, I think on balance that Suffolk  Life did make Mr Is adviser aware of the correct value of 
the components  of the SIPP. And its unclear to me, if Mr I had queried the original valuation 
of the property, why Mr Is adviser  didnt make him of this at the time. 
I think it any case follows that, when  Mr I met with his adviser two months later, it would  have 
been reasonable for the adviser to explain  that, although the last written valuation  he held 
was from April 2017, he was now aware of a corrected  property  valuation.  And as Mr I and 
the adviser would  have  been in possession of the 2017 report,  which was correct  in all other 
aspects apart from the property valuation, I do think it would have  enabled them to formulate 
a plan for Mr Is investment strategy.
Ref: DRN99661684But even if a different  interpretation was possible here, and it was feasible to conclude that 
Mr I wouldnt reasonably  have been  made aware of the corrected property valuation until 
June 2018, the difficulty here is to determine  what,  if any, investment loss Mr I may have 
suffered based  on his overall circumstances and the situation  at the time. 
In my provisional decision I talked about  some of the investment decisions Mr I had taken 
during 2017, before  hed become aware of the report  containing the incorrect  valuation. But 
Mr I said this information was irrelevant and had no bearing on the situation he was in some  
months later when he had to hold higher levels of cash than he needed to because of the 
lower property valuation.  My reason for noting these actions in 2017 was to show  that Mr I, 
through an earlier disinvestment, held a ring fenced sum in cash  even before he knew 
about the lower  valuation.  And that money also remained in cash throughout 2018,  so I dont 
think its clear  that a lack of investment  of these funds was necessarily as a result of the 
incorrect valuation given  in December 2017.  
But, in any case,  in order to uphold Mr Is complaint, I have  to be satisfied of what  
opportunity he missed and what he would have  done in the circumstances.  And when theres 
little evidence to demonstrate what Mr I would have  done, then I have to base my decision 
on the balance  of probability,  or what I think was most likely to have  happened.
Ive looked at the SIPP statements for 2016 to 2018,  and Ive seen that although the overall 
value fell in 2017 because  of the property valuation,  the levels of cash and investments held 
didnt vary too significantly  at least not in line with the apparent  loss of value in the 
property. For example, cash holdings in fact fell from £34,609 in 2017 to £28,764 in 2018, 
while the investment  content rose around £40,000 in that time.  And outside of the SIPP, it 
seems that Mr I transferred  £180,000  into his building  society cash account on 
4 December 2017, which was before the disputed valuation of 31 December 2017. And that 
building society balance  remained  the same until at least December 2018, according to the 
statement provided. So, its not clear to me that Mr I was unnecessarily ring-fencing 
additional amounts of cash due to the incorrect  valuation.  
Ive also gone  on to consider Mr Is wider portfolio because  it might reasonably  be expected 
that, if Mr I considered that hes missed an investment opportunity for around four months,  
he would  have sought to mitigate  his position  and invest any superfluous cash held at the 
earliest opportunity  when  he was made  aware  of the corrected  valuation.  But as I said 
earlier, he continued to hold the ring fenced  sum of cash  for the rest of the year.  Its of 
course possible that Mr I considered that the investment conditions  were no longer  optimal  
by that time. But I dont  think they had changed  that significantly. In fact, financial markets  
had remained quite  stable  during  that seven-month period. And I havent seen evidence that 
Mr Is investment position, attitude to risk or financial objectives had altered during that 
period either. 
Mr I says hes proved an investment loss based  on investments representative of what  I 
would have held based upon an overall  investment strategy and the balance of my portfolio. 
And Mr I has given  an illustration of losses using the fund he says he was most likely  to have 
invested the cash in. But there a couple of issuers here. As Ive said above, financial  
markets had remained relatively stable during this position, and Ive been unable  to reconcile 
Mr Is performance  figures for the periods between 31 December 2017  and 5 July 2018  (the 
date that Mr I has used as the end date of the loss).  It looks to me that there  was perhaps 
less than 2% growth in the FTSE 100 during this period. 
Ref: DRN99661685I havent seen  any persuasive evidence to demonstrate why Mr I would have invested in that 
way in December  2017, having very recently  before receiving  the incorrect  valuation - 
transferred £200,000 into his building society account, or if he would have, why he wouldnt 
have simply invested  in the same way when the he received the correct valuation.  I therefore 
dont think its more  likely that not that Mr I would have  invested in the way he has suggested 
for the period between December 2017  and July 2018.
Therefore, I cant reasonably conclude that Suffolk Life should compensate  Mr I for 
investment losses that I cant quantify  or that Im not satisfied he would have suffered, 
based on the actions he did take with the uninvested cash he held during this time and for 
some months after.
But, overall, while not all the details of Mr Is investment  opportunity are clear,  I do think hes 
had to spend time sorting out the problems with the valuation, and Im also mindful  of the 
delay in Mr I being  made  aware of a corrected  valuation   all of which resulted from Suffolk 
Lifes error. Hes suffered disappointment and inconvenience because  of this. So, I still think 
Suffolk Lifes offer of £100  plus the wine to the value  of £50 is fair and reasonable. And on 
the basis that Mr I is prepared to accept its offer,  as Suffolk Life has put a monetary value on 
the wine, Ill leave  it to Mr I to decide if he would  rather have the extra £50 in monetary 
compensation instead.
my final decision
Suffolk Life Pensions Limited has already made  an offer to pay £150  (a mixture of money  
and wine to be decided  by Mr I) to settle  the complaint  and I think this offer is fair in the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Suffolk Life Pensions  Limited  should pay the total of £150 or the 
balance of what it hasnt  already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2021.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99661686Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr I complains about  an incorrect valuation he was provided with by Suffolk  Life Pensions Limited 
(Suffolk Life) for a property within his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says this led to a 
change in his overall investment strategy which meant he lost out on investment growth.
background
Mr I held a commercial property as part of a syndicate  that was partly owned by his SIPP.  
Mr Is share cost him £301,264 when it was purchased   which was just under 40% of the total value 
of the property. He received  annual SIPP statements in December each year reflecting the value of 
his SIPP in accordance with its terms and conditions.
In 2017 an up to date market valuation of the property was required as a syndicate member had 
reached age 75. Suffolk Life, in accordance with its administrative duties,  was required to complete  an 
age 75 Lifetime Allowance test for that member.
In May 2017  Suffolk Life requested a valuation  to be carried out as at 4 April 2017 and provided the 
necessary information about the property to the valuer. This valuation  was received by Suffolk Life in 
September 2017, and when an annual report was issued  to Mr I in 
December 2017, it reflected this valuation.
But in January 2018, shortly after he received the report, Mr I queried  the accuracy  of this valuation.  
He said he believed it only represented part of the property.  Suffolk Life asked the valuer to confirm if 
the valuation included all the parts of property. An amended report was sent to Suffolk Life in 
February 2018. The difference  between the two valuations was £144,686.
As Mr I didnt receive a response  to his query from January 2018, he made  a formal complaint in 
June 2018. He said that not being aware of the correct  valuation  of the property had impacted his 
investment planning. He said hed been provided  with incorrect information  when he met with his 
financial advisers at the beginning of the tax year to plan ahead  on his various investments, and had 
therefore retained funds held elsewhere as cash  in order  to prevent increased risk to his portfolio.
Suffolk Life didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained that investment  properties valuations are rarely 
updated, due to the cost of arranging them   and it only updates them  at certain points. It also said it 
hadnt seen  any significant movement in Mr Is investments within  the SIPP so didnt  think the 
valuation had affected his investment strategy. 
But it did accept that it couldve chased up the original valuation quicker  and could have provided  Mr I 
with a corrected statement sooner. As compensation Suffolk Life paid Mr I £100 (towards the SIPP 
fees) into his SIPP bank  account.   But Mr I remained  unhappy  with this outcome. He said the delay in 
issuing correct information had a financial impact on him. He said he also invested outside of his SIPP 
with Suffolk Life and could prove his total investment portfolio had been impacted. He then brought 
his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the matter but he didnt think  Mr Is complaint should  be upheld. 
He said it wasnt reasonable for Mr I to have relied on the incorrect valuation as there was compelling 
evidence to show Mr I knew the valuation  figure was wrong.
He also thought that it was reasonable to consider  investments within  the SIPP separately, and didnt 
believe it was fair to realign other investments outside of the SIPP  simply to adjust everything into line 
with his overall risk profile. He said the compensation Suffolk  Life had paid was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. But Mr I disagreed making  the following points:
Ref: DRN99661687He hadnt complained about Suffolk Lifes obligation to provide regular valuations  simply 
that it provided erroneous information about a valuation and delayed in correcting this 
information. 
He had said that he believed the valuation  to be incorrect, but had no evidence it was, which 
was why he requested  it to be corrected in a timely  manner. He said he was deprived of using 
the shortfall figure as part of his overall  strategy and suffered loss of investment opportunity.
He thought hed proved that Suffolk Life had admitted its error and also provided  evidence to 
show the loss hed suffered through  the loss of investment opportunity.
Although he had doubts  about the initial valuation   which is why he contacted Suffolk Life so 
quickly after receiving  it, he said he was entitled to base his investment decisions  on the 
information hed been provided with.  
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Is evidence was compelling enough to hold Suffolk  Life accountable to 
the extent that Mr I had claimed. But as Mr I still disagreed and no resolution could  be found the 
complaints been passed  to me for review.
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The incorrect  valuations  and the delays in making  Mr I aware of the revised  valuation
Ive seen a copy of the initial  valuation report for the property  for £198,200   as of 
4 April 2017. But this wasnt provided to Mr I until it was incorporated into his annual  statement that 
was sent out in late December 2017. Following Mr Is contact with Suffolk  Life in January 2018 the 
valuation was corrected to £342,886. So theres no doubt  that the first valuation was wrong. And the 
reasons were outlined as being because the property hadnt  been valued in its entirety in 2017.
I think  its important to note that Suffolk Life didnt carry out the valuation  or that it was responsible for 
that error. But having been  notified  of the mistake  and Mr I has suggested another  syndicate 
member had already  queried the valuation  Suffolk Life had a duty to confirm  figures  with the 
surveyor and then to report any changes back to all the parties  involved as soon as possible.
I know the terms and conditions  of the SIPP dont require Suffolk  Life to provide  valuations other than 
on certain events  such as where a lifetime allowance  test for a syndicate member was required.  But 
I would expect  it to have confirmed  important information about the property valuation  and how it 
affected the overall value of each SIPP, especially  when  this had been queried  by syndicate 
members.  Ive seen  that Suffolk  Life was provided  with this information  in February  2018, so I dont 
think it was reasonable that Mr I had to wait until late June 2018 to be given the corrected valuation.  
However, Ive seen a telephone note which  would  suggest  Mr Is adviser contacted Suffolk Life in 
February 2018 to discuss the plan valuation. So, as Mr I has told us that his investments were made 
after consultation with his adviser,  I would  have expected the adviser to have made  Mr I aware of the 
corrected valuation.  Then any outstanding investments could have been made especially if funds  had 
been held in cash awaiting  that information. 
So I think it follows that, although Mr I received the incorrect valuation  in December 2017, his advisers 
knew the correct position in February  2018. I think it the adviser ought  to have told Mr I then, and if 
they had, any investment decisions wouldve only been delayed by two months.
But having taken that into account I still think Suffolk Life still should  have done more  to provide that 
information directly to Mr I without the need for him to chase  up his original query from January 2018.
I think  Suffolk Life made two errors here. As I explained above it didnt inform  Mr I of the corrected 
valuation in February  2018,  although I accept it did speak to his adviser about  that matter at that time.  
Ref: DRN99661688But also it didnt chase up the result of the initial valuation as robustly as it could have done  which  
led to the lower  valuation being included  in Mr Is annual statement of December  2017.  Suffolk Life 
has accepted that it should have done  more here and acknowledged its mistakes. 
Its paid Mr I £100 and offered further redress in the form of some wine. In that respect,  and Ive 
carefully considered the impact this had on Mr I, I think the payment and further offer is fair and 
reasonable and within the range Id expect to see for such errors.  I note Suffolk  Life has confirmed  
that it is prepared to offer Mr I the wine or the alternative cash value. Suffolk  Life should indicate in its 
response what it considers  the equivalent  cash value to be so that Mr I can confirm  his preference.     
The loss of investment opportunities and need  for Mr I to hold extra  cash across his entire portfolio  
until the correct valuation was confirmed.   
Mr I has said that by being  provided  with inaccurate information  about  the value  of his SIPP he had to 
put his investment strategy on hold for some while and held higher levels of cash  to realign the risk 
profile of his overall portfolio.  He says he can demonstrate the loss he suffered and has submitted 
calculations which show he may have lost between £5,000 and £6,000 by leaving the shortfall 
between the two property  valuations in cash. 
So Ive carefully considered the information Mr I has provided to quantify  any potential loss. I should  
first say that in cases  like this, where  the evidence  doesnt show  conclusively what  did happen,  I have 
to make my decision  on the basis of probability   or in other  words what I think was more likely  than 
not to have  happened.
Mr I says he met with his adviser at the start of the tax year (2017/2018) and Ive seen that he 
disinvested a bond, held jointly with his wife, for £600,000 on 7 April 2017. But this was before Suffolk  
Life had instructed a valuation, so I dont  think this (joint)  investment decision was in any way related 
to being aware of the lower valuation  of the commercial property. 
Mr I says he was ready to invest this cash when he became aware of the lower valuation, so decided 
not to invest completely and hold back some  cash. Mr I hasnt confirmed what  investments he did 
make but has pointed to a ring-fenced  deposit  of £100,000 into a joint savings account  on 
4 December 2017. He says this was evidence that he held cash back in lieu of the potential  shortfall 
in the overall  SIPP valuation.
But Mr I wasnt formally made aware  of the incorrect  valuation until he received his annual report 
sometime after 29 December 2017, so I think its unlikely  that the deposit was made on that basis. In 
any case I would have expected  the amount  ring fenced to be nearer to the amount  of shortfall, which 
Mr I himself estimated  to be around £200,000 when  he contacted Suffolk Life. 
So, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr Is investment decisions were influenced by 
the lower valuation.  Theres  no compelling  evidence to demonstrate why his actions  were linked to the 
lower valuation that hed been made aware of. Its also not clear to me why, when Mr I and his adviser 
agreed their investment strategy in April 2017  when a significant investment was encashed, Mr I 
hadnt already committed to those investment decisions before the point nine months later when he 
was made aware that there  might be a problem  with the valuation. 
When Mr I contacted Suffolk Life in January  2018, he said the valuation was incorrect as he believed 
it only referred to a part of the overall  property. He also said another  syndicate member  had 
highlighted the possible  error some months before, so it would seem more likely  than not that Mr I and 
his syndicate were  already aware there was a problem and that the value was incorrect. 
Indeed, Mr I has stated that he contacted  Suffolk Life in January 2018 because  he believed there was 
an error of around  £200,000  in the valuation. So I think Mr I and the other members had a reasonably  
good idea of why the valuation was incorrect and by approximately how much.  
Ref: DRN99661689It was only in December 2016 that Mr Is share in the property was valued  at £301,264   which  hadnt 
been disputed from what I can see. So I think its reasonable  that he would have  been concerned  to 
find out that the value of the property might had fallen by around 50% in around four months.
But ultimately, although its clear that Mr I had been provided with some factual  inaccuracies,  I think 
he was likely  to have been aware of the true valuation  of the property when  he met with his advisers 
to discuss his investment strategy, and I think its more likely than not that it didnt  affect his 
investment planning. 
I have some sympathy for Mr Is position as he was clearly  presented with a significantly inaccurate 
valuation. But, based on what Ive seen,  I cant safely say his investment strategy was driven  purely 
by the lower valuation he was told about, and I dont think he suffered any loss during  that time.   
  
I cant  be sure what investments Mr I might have made in the circumstances.  But I note the £100,000 
he ring-fenced  remained  within the savings account  in December 2018, at least  six months after he 
was provided  with a corrected annual report for his SIPP. If Mr I had held that cash in the savings 
account until he was sure of the correct  valuation, I would  have expected him to have invested it soon 
afterwards. Based on what Ive seen theres no evidence  of that happening, so Im not persuaded that 
Mr Is evidence  demonstrates  that hes lost an investment opportunity.   
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr Is complaint in as much as I think  the amount Suffolk  Life 
Pension Limited has offered   and also paid  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Keith lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9966168