K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Southern Rock  Insurance Company unfairly took into 
consideration a driving ban after it was spent when  calculating his premiums  for a number of 
car insurance policies  he had.
background
Mr P was banned from driving  for six months  on 27 August 2013, as a result of having  
accumulated 12 points (commonly known  as totting  up). In addition to the ban he also 
received an endorsement.
Mr P took out car insurance  with Southern Rock in April 2015. He later took out three further  
policies in August  2015, August 2016 and August 2017. He declared his ban on each  
occasion.
Mr P complained saying  that as his ban ended,  or was spent, at the end of the six months, 
Southern Rock shouldnt have taken  it into account when setting his premiums. He believes 
his premiums were higher  because of the ban and wants Southern Rock to refund him the 
sums overcharged because they took the ban into account. Southern Rock said that while 
the six month ban was spent, the endorsement wasnt,  so they were correct in taking 
account of it when calculating his premiums  because the endorsement only gets spent after 
five years.
Mr P didn't  think that was fair and bought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  
into the complaint.  He felt that Southern Rock dealt  with Mr P fairly. As Mr P didnt agree 
with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr P, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ps points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Southern Rock have dealt with Mr P in a 
fair and reasonable way.
In addition to the ban, Mr P also received an endorsement which applied for five years. So 
while the ban did end (or was spent) after six months, sometime around  27 February 2014, 
the endorsement remained and had to be declared  by Mr P until August 2018. So Southern 
Rock were entitled to take it into consideration when setting Mr Ps premiums.
The New Guidance on the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (the Guidance),  states under 
What are the rehabilitation periods  for motoring offences?:
An endorsement for a road traffic  offence listed in Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic 
Offenders Act 1988, imposed either  by the court or by means of a fixed penalty  
notice (FPN) is a sentence for the purposes  of the 1974 Act and may become spent 
after 5 years (or two and half years where the offender  is under 18). Road traffic 
legislation specifically provides for a FPN [fixed  penalty notice] in these 
circumstances to be treated as a conviction and dealt  with as such  under the 1974 
Ref: DRN90425952Act. Penalty points  and a driving disqualification imposed by the court on conviction  
may become spent  when they cease  to have effect  (penalty points have  effect for 
three years as set out in road traffic legislation). Where the court imposes  more  than 
one sentence or penalty for the offence then the longest rehabilitation period 
determines when  the conviction may become spent. [My emphasis]
Immediately after the above text, the Guidance gives  the following example:
An adult is convicted of a road traffic  offence,  and the court imposes  a fine 
(rehabilitation period 1 year), an endorsement (rehabilitation period 5 years),  penalty 
points (rehabilitation  period 3 years) and driving disqualification for 1 year 
(rehabilitation period 1 year); the rehabilitation period  for this conviction will be 5 
years because the endorsement  carries the longest  rehabilitation  period.

Once the conviction becomes spent,  the person is not required to declare it when 
applying for most jobs, or (motor) insurance.
The question Southern Rock asked Mr P when he took out his policies was:
"In the last 5 years  have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have you been disqualified  from driving 
(including any pending prosecutions)?"
Southern Rock were  entitled to ask this question.  And Mr P answered it correctly by 
disclosing the 2013 endorsement. So Southern Rock acted reasonably when taking the 
endorsement into consideration  when  calculating Mr Ps premiums.
Finally, Mr P is unhappy about the way Southern Rock dealt with a claim against his policy  
relating to an incident in 2016. He is also unhappy  about being charged a cancellation  fee in 
2017 when he cancelled his policy. The two matters are linked. Southern Rock  have  given 
their response to the complaint  about the cancellation  fee. But, as far as Im aware,  they 
havent done so in relation to the complaint about the claim. Once  Southern Rock give their 
response to Mr Ps complaint about  the claim, then our service can consider it, together with 
the complaint  about the cancellation fee, if Mr P remains  unhappy  about  their response.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9042595