K822xComplaint
Mrs J complains an online payment she tried to make to a family  member was unnecessarily  
blocked by Santander UK Plc, and the process she had to follow  and the customer service 
she was given to resolve  it was unacceptable.
Background 
Mrs J attempted to make an online  payment of £7,000 to a family member.  This payment 
was flagged by Santanders automated system as potentially fraudulent and was blocked  
pending further checks.
Mrs J contacted Santander several  times  to query why it hadnt  gone through  and to provide 
additional security  information but was asked to go into a branch with photo ID in order to get 
the payment processed.
Mrs J complained to Santander.  They said the payment was blocked correctly as it had 
flagged security concerns,  and the requirement  for Mrs J to attend a branch  was right.  
However, they said the customer service they had given Mrs J while  she was trying to get 
the payment made was not good enough.
They paid her £125 in compensation. Mrs J did not believe  this reflected the stress  and 
inconvenience she had been caused  so complained to our service.
During our investigation Santander increased their offer to £150. This was initially accepted 
by Mrs J but then rejected. 
Our investigator was of the view that the initial block of the payment was reasonable and that 
£150 compensation for the poor customer service  provided by Santander was a fair and 
reasonable offer in the circumstances.  Mrs J did not agree  with either the view or level of 
compensation offered and wanted the matter reviewed by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Santander have  not disputed that the customer service they provided to Mrs J was not what 
it should have  been. What  has not been  agreed  is the level of compensation she should be 
paid in recognition. I think  the offer made  by Santander  of £150 compensation is sufficient 
and I wont be asking  them to pay any more. Ill explain why.
When Mrs J attempted to make the £7,000 payment online it was flagged  by Santanders 
automated system as potentially fraudulent, so it was blocked pending further security 
checks. Santander have not said exactly why, however their terms and conditions allow for 
this to happen. The payment was for a large amount and, as Mrs J has said on a call with 
Santander, this was unusual activity on her account.  So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
that Santander considered further checks to protect  Mrs Js account were  necessary on this 
occasion.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander followed its own policy on security  checks  for online 
transfers. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error  when it subjected the online payment 
Ref: DRN98878042Mrs J had wanted to make to a security check.  That said,  I can understand that this was an 
inconvenient and frustrating experience for Mrs J, especially  given that the transaction  was 
genuine.
Santanders terms and conditions (part 2A section 6) say they should have contacted Mrs J 
to inform her that they had not completed  the payment and why, by the end of the next day, 
but they failed to do this. This was one of the errors  they have acknowledged. They also 
didnt give her correct advice that the matter could  be dealt with by the out-of-hours fraud 
team. 
Mrs J was advised she would have to attend a branch with photo ID in order  to get the 
transaction authorised. Santander acknowledged that this would be inconvenient and 
apologised to Mrs J but explained it was necessary. Given the amount of the transaction  and 
the fact that it was unusual, I do not think this was an unreasonable  request in order  to 
protect Mrs J and the bank from potential  fraud.
There have been  errors  identified  by both Mrs J and Santander themselves in the way 
Santander handled this matter. The intended  payment was to a family member, was a 
significant amount  and for an important reason, and the delay  and resolution  process  has 
caused Mrs J some stress and inconvenience.  Most  of this has been on the telephone, but 
the requirement for her to attend branch was, as I said above,  in my opinion a reasonable 
one. But this took longer than was necessary. 
Santander have  already  paid £125 in compensation in recognition  of the problems they have 
caused and have offered to increase this to £150.  Given the circumstances Ive set out 
above, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs J an additional £25, if they havent  already done so, taking 
the total compensation paid to £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9887804