K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a disputed  cash withdrawal made 
from her account. 
what happened
On 8 July 2018,  Ms Ns debit card was used  to withdraw £300 in cash  at an ATM, around 60 
miles from where Ms N lives and in a different town. A further attempt was made to withdraw 
£200, but the daily withdrawal limit was £300  so the person using the card was unable  to 
take more cash  out. There were  no further  attempts to use the card that Ms N has disputed.
On 13 July 2018, Ms N checked her balance online and then reported the withdrawal to 
Barclays as fraudulent.
Ms N said she still had her card, had never lost it, never gave it to anyone,  and kept it safe in 
a handbag or purse that was usually in a locked suitcase or a locked  locker  at work. Her PIN 
was still the random one she was given  automatically in 2010,  she hadnt given it to anyone,  
and hadnt written it down as she knew  it by heart.  The last time Ms N had used that card 
was to check her balance at an ATM  two days prior to the disputed withdrawal.
Barclays didnt think the withdrawal was fraudulent. They said Ms Ns real card and correct 
PIN were used. They didnt see why someone wouldve travelled 60 miles or so to make  the 
withdrawal. But they noted that it was made at a public transport station, on the route of the 
public transport company  that Ms N worked for. Ms N came to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint either. He explained  the withdrawal had been 
made with the genuine card and PIN, but he couldnt  see a likely  point  where the card 
couldve been taken  from Ms N and then returned to her without her knowing, or where 
someone couldve learned her PIN without her permission. He pointed out that there were no 
more attempts to use the card despite  there being  a substantial balance  still in the account.
Ms N disagreed with the investigators opinion,  saying the card must have been cloned.  So 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Barclays can hold Ms N liable for the withdrawal in dispute if the evidence suggests 
that its most  likely  she made  it herself or authorised  someone else to make it for her.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  making  the withdrawal used 
Ms Ns genuine card,  and the correct  PIN. This is not enough, on its own,  for Barclays  to 
hold her liable. So I also need to think about  whether the evidence  suggests that its most 
likely Ms N consented to the withdrawal,  or not.
Ref: DRN97798162Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Ms N authorised  the withdrawal. Ill explain 
why.
As I said above, Im satisfied that the withdrawal was made using Ms Ns genuine card and 
not a cloned card. Ms N had her card with her when she reported  the withdrawal, and said 
she never noticed it missing. Shes explained  in some detail the measures she took to keep 
her card particularly safe. But that makes it very difficult  to see how anyone could have taken 
the card without Ms Ns permission, used it in another town, and then returned it to her, all 
without her noticing anything was wrong.
Similarly, Ms N said her PIN wasnt written  down anywhere and shed never  told it to 
anyone. The last time shed used the card before the withdrawal was two days  prior. It 
doesnt seem likely that someone  wouldve  overlooked  her entering her PIN, then either 
waited two days to steal the card, or stolen the card and waited two days to use it. And there 
doesnt seem to be any other likely  explanation for how someone learned her PIN without 
her permission.
The person  using the card didnt try to use it again  after this incident,  but instead  returned it 
to Ms N, leaving  a significant balance still available.  This seems like unlikely behaviour for 
someone trying to defraud  Ms N  one might expect  them to keep  trying  to take money out 
later, instead  of giving  up after one withdrawal and giving her card back.
The person  using the card immediately tried to withdraw the maximum amount of cash, 
without checking  the balance. This indicates that they knew  or reasonably thought  thered be 
a significant amount of cash available beforehand. So it seems unlikely that this was done by 
someone who didnt  know Ms N.
It seems  unusual  that a fraudster would travel so far away to make  one withdrawal,  then 
travel all the way back to return Ms Ns card to her. However, the ATM was at a station on 
the route of the transport company Ms N worked for. This withdrawal was not made on her 
usual work  day. But it seems more likely that Ms N, or someone she knew, made the 
withdrawal while on the route, as opposed  to an unknown party  stealing  her card and 
travelling inter-city just to make one withdrawal.
Ive also considered whether someone close to Ms N was able to take the card and replace 
it without her noticing. But Ms N said she was sure she had her card on the day of the 
transactions, and didnt  think  anyone close to her would have been able to take and replace 
it. She said she was at home that day and didnt  have any visitors. Ms N explained  that no 
one else wouldve been able to access the place she stored  her card at home, and that at 
work, she kept her card in her handbag in a locked personal locker. But then based on her 
testimony, Ms N herself has ruled  out the possibility that someone known to her did this.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Barclays records are correct that it was Ms Ns genuine  card 
that was used. Based on the evidence,  it is not likely or plausible that this was done by an 
unknown fraudster. And from what Ms N has told us, it seems it wasnt someone close  to her 
either. In my view, that leaves only one plausible  possibility   which is that Ms N made the 
withdrawal herself or gave  someone else permission to use her card.  I know this is a difficult  
message for Ms N to receive. But given the evidence I have, its hard for me to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Barclays to refuse  a refund in this case.
Ref: DRN97798163my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9779816