K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of G, a limited company whose account  Lloyds Bank  UK PLC 
blocked and closed. Hed like the account  reopened and compensation for the trouble  and 
upset caused.  
background
Mr A was the director of G and had a business account with Lloyds. 
On the 29 May 2018 £546.86 was paid into Gs account. On the 8 August 2018  Lloyds was 
contacted by another bank, which Ill refer to as bank B, who said their customer  didnt 
receive the goods theyd purchased. And theyd been the victim of a scam.  Following this 
notification Lloyds blocked Gs account. This meant that Mr A couldnt  access the funds in 
Gs account. 
Lloyds asked Mr A to provide proof of entitlement to the funds  Mr A explained  that he runs 
an online  airline ticket  business but the airline wasnt able to fly on this occasion. He 
explained it wasnt his fault the airline couldnt provide the service but he was making contact 
with them  to explore options  for the sender. Lloyds advised Mr A he needed to make  contact  
with the sender to ask them to lift the scam  investigation.  
On the 12 October  2018 Lloyds wrote to Mr A to let him know  that it had decided to close  Gs 
account. And to let him know  hed need  to make  alternative banking  arrangements,  for G, 
within 60 days. 
Mr A complained to Lloyds about the block on Gs account and said theyd advised  him hed 
be able to use his account in 10 days.  But he never  had access  again. 
Lloyds accepted theyd provided  Mr A incorrect information about  the length  of time the block 
would be in place  and offered him £50 compensation. Mr A didnt accept the offer and 
wanted Lloyds  to reopen his account  and provide a higher level of compensation.
One of our investigators  looked into Gs complaint and thought that Lloyds had acted  in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and eventually  closed Gs account. 
But they thought Lloyds  should have offered Mr A more compensation because  of delays in 
closing Gs account.  A second investigator reviewed  Gs complaint and asked Mr A to 
provide further  evidence  on how the delays  in the investigation and closure of Gs account 
 impacted G. Mr A provided evidence of bounced payments on the 10 August 2018 and 
explained hed lost customers as a result. Our investigator reviewed the information Mr A 
provided, but felt that the compensation offered by Lloyds of £50 was fair. 
Mr A didnt agree and said:
Hes since  been informed by Lloyds staff that there was no reason to close  his 
account. And it would  impact any business if an account is closed suddenly 
especially an online business like his. 
He also said payments were returned and G had lost customers  as a result  of the 
block and account closure.
Lloyds have wasted  his time and he believes compensation of £50 isnt sufficient. 
As Mr A didnt agree  its been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN90380152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  
I understand that Mr A was caused upset by what happened. But what  I need  to consider 
here is whether  Lloyds  acted fairly  in placing a block on Gs account and whether the length 
of time it took to complete  the review was reasonable. 
Lloyds are required to have systems in place to review payments. As part of its review 
Lloyds are entitled to ask a customer for more  information. And its not for this service to 
interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to determine if the bank acted fairly and to 
put a customer back  in the position  they would have been in if the mistake  hadnt been 
made. 
Mr A says he entitled to the money that was paid to G  he accepts the service wasnt 
provided to the sender, but argues as the agent  hes not responsible  for providing the 
service. Banks must be able to talk to each other  to protect their customers when they 
believe fraud has taken  place  and this is what happened here. Mr A argues he hasnt  done  
anything wrong   but Im satisfied the evidence Santander relied on to review  and block  Gs 
account was fair. 
Ive also considered the length of time Lloyds took to complete their investigation and to 
issue the notice  to close letter. Lloyds received contact from bank B on the 8 August 2018 
and blocked Gs account at this point. By the 25 September theyd concluded their 
investigation, and decided to close Gs account. Im satisfied that this was completed  within  
a reasonable timeframe.  But Lloyds didnt  issue  a notice of closure letter to Mr A until the 
12 October. Ive not seen anything to explain this delay. So Ive thought about the impact this 
had on G. Mr A has argued that direct debits werent  honoured and hes lost business  as a 
result of the block  but Ive already explained  I think Lloyds decision to place Gs account 
under review  was fair. And the bounced payments  Mr A is referring to occurred on the 
10 August  so even  if Lloyds had notified Mr A sooner about Gs account  closure  the 
payments on the 10 August still wouldnt have been honoured.
Overall, having looked  at the evidence, Im satisfied that Lloyds was acting within  its legal 
and regulatory  obligations when reviewing  Gs account. And Ive not seen enough  evidence  
to demonstrate the delay  in issuing the notice of closure letter  significantly impacted on G. 
And I think the £50 offered by Lloyds in compensation is fair. 
Ref: DRN90380153account closure
Lloyds are entitled to close  an account with one of their customers, just as a customer may 
choose to close  their account  with a bank. But when a bank closes  an account it needs  to do 
so in a way which complies  which  the terms and conditions of the account.  
The terms and conditions  of Gs account  say that the account  can be closed  immediately in 
some circumstances and by giving Mr A 60 days notice. Lloyds have provided contact 
records which demonstrate a notice to close letter was issued to Mr A on the 
12 October 2018 providing  sufficient notice. 
I understand that the closure of the accounts  has negatively impacted on G. But the bank 
can make  commercial decisions on who it offers banking services  to. They  cannot  unfairly  
discriminate but they can say they no longer want to do business with individuals.  Thats 
because they have the commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to have  a business 
relationship with. And Im satisfied that Lloyds legitimately exercised its decision in this case.  
So I cant say Lloyds  did anything wrong in closing  Gs account. 
In summary,  whilst I appreciate Mr As frustrations in the blocking and closing of Gs 
account, I dont  think  Lloyds need to do anymore here.  
I understand that the £50 offered to Mr A is still available. Hell need to contact Lloyds 
directly to claim this.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9038015