K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a credit 
card. He says he wasnt happy with the credit and cash  withdrawal limits given and he 
wanted to make balance transfers. He wants an explanation, to get out of the contract  and 
compensation.
background
Barclays apologised in its final response  for the service issues Mr B had experienced and it 
has paid £75 as a gesture of goodwill for this. It said the credit  limit was based on the 
information provided by Mr B in his application and from credit reference  agencies. And it 
said it could not increase  the limit at that time. 
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The application form for the account  showed Mr B accepted  a £400 credit limit. This 
was clear from the outset.  And Barclays says the cash withdrawal limit was £100. It 
says these were based on the information  given in the application and from credit 
reference agencies.  
Although the limits  werent adequate for Mr B they were the limit agreed by him when 
he applied for the account and were the sums  Barclaycard felt comfortable offering 
given the information  it had. This is responsible to ensure theres no risk of 
unaffordable lending.  Barclays  also says it can review the limits and increase  them  
depending on whether its lending criteria are met. 
The application specifically  says no to balance transfers which  confirms Mr B didnt 
apply for such a feature. Even so Barclays says balance transfers can be made up to 
an available credit limit.  
During the application process Mr B was given some incorrect information. Barclays  
has acknowledged the inconvenience and frustration this caused and has paid £75 
for this as a goodwill  gesture. This is adequate. Its also said Mr B can contact it 
about closing  the account.
He will not be asking  Barclays to do anything more. 
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He remains  unhappy and 
says the way Barclays sells its products to unassuming members  of the public also needs 
looking at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Barclays is entitled to decide what credit and cash withdrawal  limits  it puts in place on a 
customers card account. Here it relied on the information Mr B gave it in his application and 
from credit  reference agencies and offered him a £400 credit limit and a £100 cash 
Ref: DRN98639802withdrawal limit. It appears Mr B wouldve  known of and agreed to the credit  limit when 
accepting his card account.  Barclays also says he wouldve  been  able to make some  
balance transfers  subject the limits  of his available credit on the card from time to time. And 
it would  review these  limits over the lifetime of the card subject to its lending criteria.
Overall I think  Barclays carried out reasonable checks to ensure  the borrowing was 
affordable for Mr B and I dont think the credit card was mis-sold to him as he suggests.
Barclays accepts it couldve handled some things better and its paid Mr B a total of £75 
compensation for this as goodwill gesture. Taking  everything into account,  including the level 
of awards we make, I think thats fair. And I cant reasonably ask Barclays  to do or pay any 
more.
Mr B says the way Barclays sells its products to unassuming members of the public needs  
looking at. But this service  isnt a regulator  and we cant require Barclays to change  its 
practices, procedures or what it says to its customers. General issues  about how the 
banking industry  works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863980