K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with FCE Bank 
Plc (FCE) trading as Ford Credit,  has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs S took receipt of a new car in April 2018.  She financed  the deal through a hire purchase  
agreement with FCE. 
Mrs S had some problems with the car. She reported an issue with the satellite navigation. 
She said it was freezing;  failing to re-route;  not recognising speed signs and that the voice 
control didnt work. She also highlighted a problem  with the central locking not working  and a 
further issue with the window  misting  over. 
The issues  were reported to the business in August 2018 but the dealership could not 
replicate any of the problems. They updated the software on the satellite navigation. But 
Mrs S was still having problems. She returned  the car in September and in November and 
the dealership  again  updated  the software. They noticed that the key had been  set to a 
different unlock pattern and they reset it but they could  not replicate the issues Mrs S 
complained of and they found no evidence of the windows misting.
So FCE didnt uphold  her complaint and Mrs S therefore referred it to this service where our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  He noted  that Mrs S had provided a video of the fault with 
the satellite navigation but he also noted  the car had been  back  to the dealership on three 
occasions and that there  was no evidence of any fault with it. So he didnt think it would be 
fair to ask FCE to take any further  action.
But Mrs S disagreed and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  The  relevant law says, amongst other  things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible.  The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory  if they 
Ref: DRN94990242meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account 
any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs S. The car 
here was new so I would  not expect it to have  any faults.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCE to put this right. 
Im not persuaded by the evidence thats been provided that there are faults with this car. Its 
been back to the dealership on three occasions and Im persuaded that whilst  some of the 
issues may have been intermittent, the voice control; window misting and remote locking 
problems would have  been evident during  the tests I can see the dealership carried  out. But 
other than software  upgrades and a key reset theyve not been able to replicate the 
problems Mrs S complains of. It would not be fair to ask FCE to take any action  without 
evidence there was something  wrong  and so, whilst  I appreciate  Mrs Ss concerns, I wont  
be doing so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9499024