K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2000. Mr L says Tesco  Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mr L 
initially told us he was entitled to sick pay for 12 months at full pay  but evidence  sent later 
from him suggests his sick pay wouldve halved  after six months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague  thought Tescos offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mr L paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ls representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Tescos  offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Tesco made it clear Mr L didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I say 
this because Mr L hasnt  said anything to make me think  this wasnt  made clear. Also his 
postal application  form for the card had a separate section  for the PPI with a box for him 
to tick if he wanted the cover. On Mr Ls form, which  he signed to take the card,  the box 
for PPI was ticked  and I think  he wouldve known that if he didnt want  the PPI the box 
for it shouldnt be ticked. Also, nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken. 
Ref: DRN94516102Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have  to give Mr L enough clear  and timely  information so he 
could decide for himself  if it was right for him.
The application form said the PPI was to protect  the card payments  in case  of death, 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment  and called it Payment  Protection. Its 
possible the information Tesco gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him  for example his sick pay wouldve halved after six months 
and hes told us he didnt  have  anything else, like savings,  to pay his card if he were too 
sick to work. It also looks like the cover was affordable. Also nothing about  Mr Ls job or 
employment wouldve  made it hard for him to claim and he didnt have any health issues  
at the time  so he wasnt affected  by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover, 
such as the exclusions  for pre-existing health issues.  
Overall, I think it likely the cover wasnt too dissimilar  to what its likely  Mr L wouldve  
thought he was buying, from the information he had. With this and all Ive said above  in 
mind, it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr L if something went  wrong and 
I dont think he wouldve have declined it had Tesco done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions,  in light of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. 
So I think he wouldve still thought  he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr L wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
he thought he was getting at the time and, given his circumstances,  it couldve provided a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time if he had to claim. And, in those  circumstances, I think  he 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Tesco should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above  I dont uphold  the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Tesco doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
non-disclosure of commission
Ref: DRN94516103As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation  would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that Tescos offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the unfairness  caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Tesco didnt  tell Mr L about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Tesco and Mr L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Tesco didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share  in this case  
I dont think Tesco acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Ls representatives have made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr L should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Tesco failed to tell Mr L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  they say I should  find Mr L wouldnt have taken the policy  had he 
known about the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN94516104-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a court  
would automatically  order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude  that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission  been disclosed; and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence  the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused  by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr L 
in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by Tesco not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before  he purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Ls representative suggests,  driven to conclude  that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Tescos  failure to disclose the level of commission  for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for Tesco to calculate  compensation  in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr L paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr L 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Tesco  had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission  and profit share levels.
So I consider that Tescos  payment  of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable)  in 
line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Tesco has already  paid Mr L compensation on this basis,  I dont  consider  it should do 
anything further.  
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
Ref: DRN94516105out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ls complaint or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC should pay Mr L an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable).  
As Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already paid compensation on this basis,  I do not 
consider that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC should  do anything more.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9451610