K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold an offset  mortgage by Accord Mortgages Limited. Hes 
said that despite having over £12,000 in the account  at times, it hasnt reduced the term 
even by a day. Hes said that hes held this account for over a year and cant  see the benefit 
of it so feels it was mis-sold.  
background
In September  2017 Mr S called  Accord after receiving a letter to say that his existing fixed  
rate was coming  to an end. Following this conversation, Mr S took out an offset mortgage 
which started in November 2017.
In July 2018, Mr S raised a complaint with Accord to say that the term of his mortgage hadnt 
reduced, despite having large  funds in his offset account. He said that the mortgage product 
had been mis-sold and wasnt  what he wanted. 
Accord responded to say that Mr S took this product out on a non-advised basis and the 
adviser didnt tell him that his term would  reduce  during  the telephone call in September 
2017. It said that the advisor told him that if he continued to overpay then this would reduce 
the overall term but that they didnt say it would show in his online portal. Accord  said that 
his contractual  term end remained the same and that whilst  Mr S static  overpayment helps 
to reduce the term, this isnt a contractual  change.  
Mr S didnt accept Accords response  and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that Mr S had been  mis-sold his offset mortgage. He said that it was 
sold on a non-advised basis and that, during the telephone conversation of September  2017, 
the adviser provided him with clear, fair and not-misleading information  so he could make an 
informed choice. The investigator also thought that Mr S expressed a keen interest  in the 
offset mortgage based on information hed seen elsewhere. 
Our investigator said that Mr S static payment of £600  per month was only slightly more 
than his net payment so concluded that this wouldnt have a significant impact on reducing 
the balance any faster. He sent Mr S a copy of the sales call of September  2017.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings. He said that he moved to the offset product 
to reduce the term of his mortgage and that this hasnt happened.  He said that despite 
having £12,000 in his offset account, he hasnt  seen his end date change  at all and 
questioned why he changed from the capital repayment mortgage that he was on previously. 
He asked for an ombudsman to consider  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having looked at all of the evidence and 
listened to the telephone conversation, Im in broad agreement with the investigator and Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN94427072what is an offset mortgage?
An offset mortgage is a product that links a mortgage with a savings or a current  account. 
Credit balances are offset against the mortgage debt so interest is only charged on the 
difference. So, for example,  if someone  had an outstanding mortgage of £20,000  and had 
£10,000 in their offset account, they would only pay interest on the £10,000 difference. It can 
be an effective way of reducing costs  paid on the interest as this is generally higher than the 
interest rates offered  on savings accounts at this time.  
The term of a mortgage remains the same  with the offset feature but it does allow  a greater  
amount of flexibility compared to other  mortgage  products as funds can be withdrawn at any 
time. 
should Mr S have been given advice?
Having considered the paperwork  and listened  to the call that Mr S had with Accord, I think  
his main objective in switching  to this new product was to pay off his mortgage as soon as 
possible. This is supported by the overpayments he was making prior to taking out the offset 
mortgage. 
In the initial  call that Mr S had with Accord,  the adviser identified that he required advice. He 
was then put through to another  person  who didnt provide advice. This adviser explained  
that she couldnt provide advice and did say this a few times  in the call. 
Whilst Mr S chose  to proceed, I do think he shouldve received  advice  at this time. The 
regulatory requirements of an execution-only sale are for there to be no interaction  before a 
consumer takes  out a mortgage. Here, there has been interaction through  this call. 
I do think that Mr S shouldve received advice. But as he wasnt,  Ive considered if the 
position would be different  if he had received adequate advice.  
was this mortgage suitable  for Mr S?
Ive taken into account what Mr S said on the call  and what  he says now  about what  sort 
of mortgage he wanted to decide whether, if hed been given advice, he wouldve ended up 
with a different  mortgage. 
In the call, Mr S asked  about another account that was previously offered to the market  by a 
different financial provider and said that he would like to try something like that to get his 
money working better  for him. The adviser said that Accord  offered an offset mortgage 
which links a savings account to the mortgage  and explained that it would help with paying 
his mortgage off by reducing the amount of interest  he needed to pay. The adviser also 
explained that the more  that Mr S had in the offset account, the less interest he would pay 
on his outstanding mortgage.
Mr S was offered a comparison illustration with a fixed rate mortgage  product and was 
quoted the difference  in monthly cost. As this was small, he decided to proceed with the 
offset product  and asked the adviser not to send him the illustration for the fixed rate 
product.
Ref: DRN94427073I do think it couldve been made clearer to Mr S that his end date wouldnt officially change. 
But I think that the offset mortgage was ultimately  suitable for his needs.  Whilst his official  
term end date hasnt  changed, this product will help him pay off his mortgage sooner, which 
is what he wanted. Whilst he might  be paying slightly  more  each month  than if hed had a 
repayment mortgage, hes been  paying  less interest  on the overall balance. At times Mr S 
has had large sums in the offset account  so hes only had to pay interest  on the difference.  
The mortgage interest hes saved is higher than what  he wouldve received on a savings 
account so hes saved money  here.  And as hes paying less interest,  his monthly  payments  
will pay off the capital  sooner  even if the term end date hasnt been formally changed.
I also think the offset mortgage  was suitable  for his needs as he had access  to the funds  at 
any time and Ive noted that hes made use of this by withdrawing a large sum at one point.  
The offset mortgage allows this flexibility but a standard fixed rate mortgage wouldnt. 
Mr S can also request a projected calculation of the remaining mortgage term from Accord. I 
can see that he asked  for this and was sent a projected estimated term end date based on 
his position in July 2018.   
So considering everything,  I think Mr S made it clear that he wanted a product that would 
pay off his mortgage in the shortest  time possible and Accord  shouldve provided  advice  and 
made it clear  that this mortgage wouldnt officially reduce Mr S term. 
But ultimately Im not persuaded that this offset  mortgage was unsuitable for Mr S needs at 
the time and the product is essentially doing what he wanted by paying off the mortgage 
sooner.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9442707