K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt do enough to recover  £510 he sent 
someone for a laptop he didnt receive. Hes unhappy with how Barclays handled the matter 
and with the customer service it provided.
background 
In 2018 Mr I saw on Shpock a laptop he wanted  to buy. He sent three payments totalling 
£510 from his Barclays bank account  to the sellers bank  account (the payee) to pay for it. 
The payees  bank account, like Mr Is, was held with Barclays.
Subsequently Mr I received neither the laptop nor his money back.  He contacted  Barclays 
about this with a view to recovering his money. A dispute ensued: Mr I is unhappy  with how 
Barclays handled matters  trying to recover his money and with the customer service  it 
provided.
Barclays issued its final response letter to Mr I on 6 December 2018.  It said that the funds he 
paid to the payee were utilised by the payee before Mr I told Barclays about a potential  issue  
with the transactions, and that the funds could  not therefore be recovered. Barclays  also 
explained that it could not provide  any further  information on the payees account.  It did, 
however, offer Mr I £100 as compensation for the overall  level of service  he received. 
Mr I remained  unhappy and referred his complaint here.
I sent the parties my jurisdiction decision in 2020  explaining that:
Mr I was a customer and a payment service user of Barclays on the basis  that 
Barclays sent funds  at Mr Is request from his Barclays account. Mr I is therefore an 
eligible complainant here regarding his own Barclays account and the customer 
service Barclays  provided him in respect  of that account, which  includes the issue  of 
whether Barclays took appropriate actions to help recover  funds  and we can 
therefore consider  this element of Mr Is dissatisfaction  with Barclays.
We are not, however,  able to consider a complaint from Mr I about what Barclays did 
or did not do in respect of receiving the funds and processing them to the payees 
account, and the general operation of the payees account (which  includes Barclays 
decision to not unblock the payees  account). This is because a complaint  about 
these particular points  does  not arise  out of Mr Is own relationship  as a customer  
and payment service  user of Barclays  but instead from the simple coincidence that 
Barclays also happened in this case to be the provider of the payees account.  And 
Mr I also isnt an eligible complainant about these particular points under rules DISP 
2.7.6R (2A) and (2B).
Since that time Barclays  provided transcripts of relevant calls it had with Mr I in 2018; copies 
of these were provided to Mr I. 
On 22 February 2021 I sent Mr I and Barclays my provisional decision on the merits of the 
parts of Mr Is complaint that I am able to consider, explaining why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint  in part (although not substantially),  and the compensation I considered fair.
Ref: DRN95545212Both parties  responded to my provisional decision  Barclays to accept it, and Mr I with 
further points   and Im now ready  to explain my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons: I uphold  this complaint  in part (although not substantially). Ive explained my 
reasons again  below,  with some further  comment where I have thought  it appropriate to 
address Mr Is response to my provisional  decision
Im satisfied that the funds Mr I sent to the beneficiary account were withdrawn by the 
beneficiary on the same day as each respective payment. Therefore when Mr I first raised 
issues with Barclays on 6 September 2018 about  the transactions  the funds were already 
unavailable for recovery from the beneficiary  account. 
I would expect Barclays to have taken notes of any concerns Mr I had about the transactions 
and acted appropriately on these. Having reviewed  records of Mr Is and Barclays  
communications, I can see that on 6 September 2018, when Mr I first called Barclays  to 
discuss the transactions, Barclays told Mr I that if he thought  he had been scammed then he 
should speak  to its scam team (which it could arrange) but Mr I said and repeated that he 
didnt want Barclays to do anything  yet; Mr I said he would call back tomorrow. Mr I called 
Barclays again on 15 September  2018,  Barclays again offered to raise a scam  case,  but Mr I 
again said he didnt  want it to do this yet. When Mr I then spoke to Barclays  on 
27 September 2018 and said he did want a scam case raised, I can see that Barclays took 
prompt action including  placing a block  on the beneficiary account  the same  day. Barclays  
told Mr I during a call the next day on 28 September 2018 that such blocks  are put on 
immediately. Mr I then called in several  times for an update; Barclays  explained the 
investigation timescale and what could hold it up.
Ive considered the general level of service  Mr I received from Barclays around  this issue  
including all the calls between Mr I and Barclays between September and December 2018, 
and the way in which Barclays handled things including  Mr Is complaint about  him not 
getting his money  back. Im satisfied that Barclays did its best to try to help Mr I during calls 
that were sometimes challenging and less than cordial.
Mr I said in response to my provisional decision that at the time he was also engaging with 
Barclays regarding the unblocking  of the recipients  account, which was part of his 
complaint, and he would like addressed the specifics of the poor customer service received 
by not only the customer  service advisers over the phone but also the branch manager.  
However, I have already  explained that we do not have jurisdiction to look at Barclays  
decision to not unblock the payees  account.  Around that time Mr I was in contact with the 
seller who had said that the reason he couldnt  refund him was because  Barclays had 
blocked his account. And I already considered,  in reaching my provisional decision dated 22 
February 2021, the overall customer service otherwise  provided  by Barclays which included 
the help it gave Mr I following his desire  to get the payees account  unblocked.  I am satisfied  
that Barclays did its best to try to help Mr I. 
Ive considered the length of time it took Barclays  to provide copies of calls that Mr I says he 
previously requested. Barclays could have acted  much more quickly on this. But given these 
Ref: DRN95545213were calls Mr I was already party to himself, and everything else Ive said here, Im not 
persuaded this means it would be fair to hold Barclays  responsible for Mr I not having 
recovered his funds, nor substantially  for any distress or inconvenience  Mr I may have  
suffered. Instead  and I can see that Barclays previously offered Mr I £100   I think  
Barclays should pay Mr I £150 to reflect that whilst it genuinely tried its best to help him, it 
could have provided clearer information to Mr I at an earlier  stage about what  was and 
wasnt possible to better  manage his expectations around what  was possible and 
reasonable. To be clear, I dont think this would have  made  any difference to the recovery of 
Mr Is funds (since  as I have already said these were utilised and withdrawn from the 
beneficiary account before Mr I raised concerns with Barclays),  but I am satisfied  that a 
payment of £150  is appropriate in this respect (Barclays can deduct from this the £100 it 
previously offered Mr I if it has already paid that amount to him).
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I require Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC to pay Mr I £150 in full and final settlement of this complaint (Barclays  can deduct 
from this the £100  it previously offered  Mr I if it has already  paid that amount to Mr I).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9554521