K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains he was wrongly advised  to transfer  out of his employers occupational 
pension scheme  to a transfer pension plan invested in a with-profits fund. He says 
Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) is responsible for that advice as it paid 
commission to his adviser. Mr J also says Standard Life failed to provide certain benefits 
under his plan.
background 
Mr J had been a member of his previous  employers  occupational pension  scheme from 
1974 until 1986. In 1987 he met with a financial adviser (business A) who recommended  that 
he transfer his benefits  into a Standard Life transfer  plan (known  as a section 32 policy),  
invested in the with-profits fund. Mr J recalls  the adviser saying there were no possible 
downsides to this. The adviser provided  quotations  of projected benefits and copies of the 
Standard Life literature describing  the plan. 
As Mr J approached 65 years of age he contacted Standard Life for retirement quotes. He 
was advised the fund value was insufficient to cover the guaranteed  minimum pension 
(GMP) provided  under  the plan. Mr J was told he wouldnt  be able to take any tax free cash 
or add any indexation to the income provided.  
Mr J compared this to the benefits he could have received from his occupational  pension 
scheme and complained to Standard Life. He said the Standard  Life pension plan had been 
mis-sold and that he held Standard Life responsible for this. He said there was a commercial 
relationship between Standard Life and the adviser.  Mr J said he hadnt paid the adviser so 
he thought the adviser must  have  been paid commission by Standard  Life 
Standard Life didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. Standard Life said it had only provided the plan 
and hadnt given any advice to Mr J. It said the advice  was given by an independent  third 
party. Standard Life said the adviser  was not acting  on their behalf  and was not approved  or 
otherwise endorsed by Standard Life. It said any commission that had been paid to the 
adviser was paid on behalf of Mr J for the service provided to him by the adviser.
Standard Life said the value of the plan was insufficient to pay the benefits referred to by 
Mr J.
Mr J disagreed. He said as Standard Life had paid commission to the adviser from its 
standard charges (rather  than as a direct cost from the policy  itself)  this showed it was 
paying the adviser. So Mr J said Standard Life was ultimately responsible  for the advice. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Js complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. 
She said Standard  Life was the product provider and not the adviser. The adjudicator said 
the adviser firm was a separate,  independent entity  and she didnt think  that firm was acting 
on behalf of Standard Life. 
The adjudicator also said the pension plan only promised to pay the GMP and the other 
benefits were dependent  on the fund value of the plan.
Mr J disagreed, however,  saying that he felt his complaint had been misunderstood. He 
made the following points in summary:
Ref: DRN95612312He originally complained to Standard Life on the basis that hed been told to ignore 
the GMP, as it was purely an administrative requirement which  wouldnt  come into 
effect
The basis of his complaint was that Standard Life had paid business A to sell him the 
product  they were therefore responsible for both the product and the advice given 
to him.
Standard Life made the payment to business A  and this was from their product 
management fees rather than through charges levied on him, or on his behalf. 
As agreement hasnt been  reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has accepted that his Standard Life pension plan was sold to him by business A. But 
the crux of Mr Js complaint against  Standard Life remains that it paid that business  to sell 
him the policy from its own funds and that it is therefore responsible  for that sale. 
But as with the adjudicator, I disagree with that conclusion  Ill explain why.
Business A was an IFA, which was acting on Mr Js behalf. Standard Life was the company 
which provided the pension policy into which Mr Js funds were transferred. And they had 
different responsibilities.  The formers  responsibility  was to assess Mr Js circumstances  and 
objectives, recommend  an appropriate  product, and ensure that Mr J understood how the 
product worked.  As the sale was before the introduction of the Financial Services Act 1986 
(implemented in 1988),  the firm needed to do so in accordance with common law 
requirements  so with reasonable  skill and care.
Standard Lifes  responsibilities were,  amongst other  things, to ensure that it provided 
documentation so that business  A would be able to convey the nature of the policy to Mr J, 
and to administer  the policy properly. As business A felt able to recommend the policy to 
Mr J, I think its more likely than not that Standard Life provided the necessary
documentation to business A. As to the proper administration of the policy  and the benefits 
payable, Ill address that later in this decision.
Sometimes, both sets of responsibilities would be shared  by the product provider  usually in 
circumstances where  the assessment and recommendation  was being given by an agent or 
adviser who was tied to that company. They would assess  a customers  circumstances and 
objectives in the same way, and then determine whether that product provider had a policy 
which was right for the customer. If they did, the product provider would be responsible for 
the advice given  as the principle firm to whom  that agent was tied.
But that responsibility wasnt borne of whatever internal payment arrangements  the product 
provider and tied agent had in place,  but because there was a contract which set out that the 
tied agent was acting on behalf of the product provider. And in such situations,  as might be 
expected, the product provider would  take a keen  interest in the training and competency  of 
the individuals who were making recommendations on their behalf.
Ref: DRN95612313This isnt the case here. And Mr J agrees that Business A wasnt, in his words, on the 
payroll of Standard Life. It was an independent financial adviser. It wasnt Standard Life, but 
business A, an independent  third party acting on behalf of Mr J, rather than Standard  Life, 
that advised Mr J to transfer  out of his occupational  pension scheme.
But there are other reasons as to why I disagree  with Mr Js reasoning  that Standard Life 
paid business  A to sell the policy. This implies  that Standard Life was directing the sale. But 
Business A was the firm which sold the product, with no prior intervention  from Standard 
Life, and they were  then paid commission by Standard Life for choosing its policy. So they 
werent paid to sell the policy as such.  It might seem  a subtle and nuanced difference, but its 
an important one nonetheless. For me to accept Mr Js point here, Id need  to be satisfied  
that Standard  Life was the driving  force  behind  the sale  as might be the case with a tied 
agent - but that isnt the case. And the available  evidence,  as limited as it is, also doesnt  
support this position.
And simply  because it provides a policy which might be recommended by any IFA, this 
doesnt mean that the product provider has assumed responsibility for undertaking an 
appropriateness assessment and deciding  whether  that policy  is right for the individual. If 
they did, there would  be no function or purpose  for IFAs,  and every product provider would 
instead have its own tied agents. The fact that this hasnt been  the case, either now or in 
1987, confirms  the generally held  and in my view entirely fair and reasonable - 
understanding and acceptance (both  in the industry  and by subsequent regulators) that the 
responsibilities between the product providers and IFAs were, and remain,  different.
I also dont think that the issue of where the payment actually originated  within Standard  Life 
is important to the outcome of the complaint. In this case, business A decided  that Mr J 
should transfer into the Standard Life policy. Once  that recommendation had been  made,  
and Mr J accepted  it, the application was submitted and the fee for making  that 
recommendation was paid for by Standard Lifes commission.  . I should  also say at this point 
that it would  have been up to the IFA to explain  what commission payments were being  
made  but that disclosure of commission payments in documentation wasnt a requirement 
until the implementation of the New Product  and Commission  Disclosure  Rules in January 
1995. 
So Standard Life contracted with business A  an independent firm - to make  a commission 
payment in respect of recommending its policy. I dont  think  it matters whether this cost was 
ultimately borne by Mr J through policy  fees or by Standard Life itself.  Neither  scenario 
persuades me that business A was acting  on behalf of, or as an agent  of, Standard Life  
this simply wasnt  the case for the reasons set out above. And as Ive also said, a 
commission payment alone doesnt create  a responsibility on the firm making that payment 
to ensure the recommendation was appropriate   that function  is separate. 
A commission payment  could certainly  be viewed as an incentive on the part of the IFA to 
recommend a particular  product (and concerns relating to this contributed to an overhaul  of 
the way advising  firms  were remunerated), but Mr Js notion of Standard  Life paying the IFA 
to sell him a policy  implies a reversal of the way the process actually worked
So for the reasons given, Im not persuaded that Standard Life should be held responsible  
for the advice provided to Mr J by business  A. Business A would also have  been  responsible  
for explaining how the policy worked,  including the way the GMP would be funded and paid.  
And it follows, therefore, that I wont be assessing  in this complaint whether the 
recommendation given to Mr J to transfer his OPS  benefits was appropriate.
Ref: DRN95612314Benefits provided  by the plan 
An aspect of Mr Js complaint is that Standard  Life have informed him his pension plan wont 
provide him with index linking or a tax free lump sum.  He says these benefits are part of the 
pension plan. 
Mr J also says he queried the GMP with the adviser when he took out the plan. 
The commitment made  by Standard Life when accepting the transfer was that it would pay 
the guaranteed minimum pension when it was due to Mr J. Any excess payable above that 
amount would be dependent upon  the performance of the policy.  Standard  Life says the 
current fund value is not enough to fund GMP, which means  Standard Life will have to fund 
the shortfall. Unfortunately, it also means there  are no additional pension benefits beyond  
the payment of the GMP.
The benefits  provided by the plan were set out in the plan documentation.  It said:
Benefits on Retirement 
At retirement the value of your Plan,  in excess of that required to provide any GMP, will be 
available to provide a Tax- Free lump sum and a pension, within  lnland Revenue  limits.
So while the illustration and plan documentation set out the different benefits available, they 
were dependent on the value of the fund reaching a certain level in excess of what was 
required to provide the GMP. And reaching this level was dependent  on investment  returns.  
The illustration provided to Mr J gave potential rather  than guaranteed  returns which were 
based on assumed  investment growth  rates. Unfortunately,  those growth  rates have not 
materialised over the years since the plan was taken out which  has affected the value of the 
plan. In addition  annuity rates have fallen to low levels  in recent  years. That means the value 
of the plan has to be higher than previously  to provide the same  level of pension income.
I can appreciate why Mr J is so disappointed to be receiving  significantly less pension 
income than he hoped for  and I have considerable sympathy with his position.  But I dont 
think Standard  Life has administered his plan incorrectly.  So unfortunately for Mr J I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to require  Standard Life to pay out more on his pension  
plan. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Standard Life Assurance 
Limited for the reasons  outlined in this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9561231