K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as Money Boat - irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven high-cost short-term loans Money  Boat provided to Mr H 
between May 2016 and November 2017. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest  amount 
repayable
1 16/05/2016 26/06/2016 2 £400.00 £233.72
2 04/08/2016 26/10/2016 3 £400.00 £184.58
3 31/10/2016 23/12/2016 2 £450.00 £287.97
4 03/01/2017 26/05/2017 5 £1,000.00 £326.39
5 19/07/2017 25/08/2017 2 £250.00 £143.59
6 07/09/2017 24/11/2017 3 £800.00 £360.62
7 28/11/2017 27/04/2018 5 £800.00 £243.05
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought  the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given due to the amount of time Mr H had been in debt. Money Boat 
disagreed saying it had done  checks that were  proportionate for time Mr H had been  a 
customer of it. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020   which Ive attached a copy of to the end 
of this decision - and explained  why I was thinking  of upholding Mr Hs complaint from loan 5 
onwards. But I asked everyone  to give me anything  further to think about before I issued my 
final decision. Money Boat replied to say it had nothing further to add. We havent heard 
from Mr H. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, as no one had anything more for me to consider, my decision remains 
the same. Im upholding Mr Hs complaint  about loans 5 to 7 and Money Boat should  put 
things right. 
putting things right  what Evergreen Finance London Limited needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr H paid on loans 5, 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN98611822the number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So, all entries  about loans  5, 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr Hs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Evergreen Finance London Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Evergreen Finance London Limited  must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98611823Copy of provisional decision
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website. Having  
done so Im intending to reach a slightly  different outcome to the one proposed  by the adjudicator  and 
Ive explained my reasoning below. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  consider  a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Money Boat should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish whether 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and the customer  should 
be able to make repayments  on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 1 to 3. Mr H didnt respond to the 
adjudicators view, so Im assuming that Mr H didnt disagree with what  the adjudicator had said. So, I 
wont be making  any further  findings on these loans as these appear to no longer be in dispute.  
Our adjudicator thought the point of when Money Boat should have realised that Mr H wouldnt be 
able to make  his repayments sustainably without borrowing more, was reached by loan 4. But having 
carefully the circumstances of Mr Hs case,  I think  that this point was reached by loan 5. 
Ref: DRN98611824Loan 4 was for significantly larger  amount, and this should have given Money  Boat cause for concern  
about Mr Hs financial  position. So, whilst  Money Boat did ask for Mr Hs income  and had done some 
checks to assess Mr Hs disposal income, I dont think these  checks went far enough to be 
proportionate for time Mr H was going to be indebted to Money Boat. By this point, I think it wouldve 
been proportionate to have  made  further enquiries with Mr H in order to have a clearer understanding 
of his actual financial  position and to have verified  the information hed provided. Based on what Ive 
seen Money  Boat doesnt appear to have  done  this. 
But Mr H hasnt provided  us with any information  of his actual financial position at the time. So, I dont 
know what a proportionate check might have shown Money Boat. And as such, I cant fairly say that 
Money Boat was wrong to have provided  Mr H with this loan.  
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Money Boats lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Money Boat should reasonably  have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so, Money Boat should  have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
By loan 5, Mr H had been indebted to Money Boat for 14 months and Money  Boat ought  to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr H was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Also, Mr H wasnt making any real inroads  to the amount  he owed Money  Boat.  Loan 7 was taken out 
18 months after Mr Hs first loan. And it was for a larger amount. Mr H had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect; service  a debt to Money Boat over an extended period.
I think  that Mr H lost out because Money  Boat continued  to provide borrowing  from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging  Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which  Mr H borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Hs 
ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him/her in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5, 6 and 7 and Money Boat should put things right.
Ref: DRN9861182