K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the way in which U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled his claim 
following his boiler  being declared  beyond economic repair.
References to UKI include its agents and contractors.
background
Mr W has a policy with UKI which included home  emergency cover.
In February 2019  he contacted UKI about a leak. An engineer from Contractor C attended on 
27 February. When he opened Mr Ws boiler, he found that a previous engineer had left 
some type of tissue paper/paper towel inside the boiler. He assumed this was to cover up a 
leak. The paper had been there for some time and, being damp, had caused  significant 
corrosion damage  to various parts  within the boiler.  The engineer declared it to be beyond 
economic repair  and unfit to be used. 
This left Mr W and his family, which  included  a four year old child, without a source  of heat 
and hot water. UKI offered Mr W and his family alternative accommodation, but Mr W initially 
declined this because  his daughter needed to be at school the following day.
Mr W says that he believes this to have been the cause for health problems that he, his 
partner, and their child had suffered for some  time.  He says they had all experienced bad 
chests, coughs, and running noses which he attributed to mould spores  from the boiler which  
is in their kitchen and above a food preparation area.
The tissue  paper mustve been  left inside the boiler  by a previous engineer, so the history of 
callouts to Mr Ws home by UKIs  engineers was investigated.  The background can be 
summarised as follows:
Contractor M previously held the home  emergency contract from UKI. This contract 
was then held by Contractor C. It was one of Contractor Cs engineers who 
discovered the paper in February 2019.
An engineer  from Contactor  C had attended Mr Ws house on 28 December 2018  to 
deal with a radiator leak.
An engineer  from Contractor M had previously attended on 16 and 18 February 2018  
to deal with a radiator leak.
Another engineer,  employed by Mr W (Engineer W), had attended in October  2016.  
He had replaced a motherboard.  Mr W says he was with this engineer  the while time, 
and no pipework needed to be touched and he didnt use any blue paper. 
Both Contractor C and Contractor M deny that their engineer is responsible  for leaving the 
tissues inside the boiler.  Contractor  M says that its engineer attended twice in February  2018  
to isolate radiators  that were  leaking.  Theres no evidence from the job cards  that he touched  
the boiler, but Mr W says he drained  the system from the pressure release valve  within  the 
boiler. Mr W says the engineer had done this as a favour, so it hadnt been recorded  on the 
job sheet as he was only supposed to be there to isolate the radiator.
Ref: DRN94234662Contractor C says its engineer who attended in December 2018  didnt open the boiler.  Mr W 
has confirmed this, and says that after Contractor  Ms engineer visited  in February  2018, the 
boiler wasnt opened again  until February  2019 when the tissues were discovered. 
Both Contractor C and Contractor M deny that their engineer was responsible, and issued  
final response letters giving their reasons for doing so. On 1 March  2019 UKI also issued a 
final response letter to Mr W in relation to his complaint, in which  it stated
 I've investigated  the issue's  you raised and as we've discussed the complaint is now 
with the correct company Ive given feedback to our business around  your 
dissatisfaction of the third-party company  we use.
Mr W was without a boiler and so without  any hot water and a main heating source until a 
new boiler was installed  on 15 March 2019.  He says they boiled kettles for baths and tried to 
stay in the one room  to keep warm, and it was very cold at night. He was concerned about 
the impact of this on his young daughter.
Mr W was also concerned  about the cost of buying  a new boiler.  UKI paid him £250 which  
his policy  provides for towards a new boiler  if a boiler is declared BER. He was able to 
source a Government  grant for a further  £1,300. His new boiler cost £1,800.  After  applying 
the Government grant, he had to pay £500, of which £250 was covered by the BER payment 
from UKI. So hes £250 out of pocket.
Mr W wants to have his replacement boiler  paid for and compensation for the impact  he says 
the old boiler has had on his familys  health.  He also wanted  £250, as provided  for in his 
policy, for alternative accommodation.  Although  he initially  rejected the offer of this because  
his daughter had school  the next day, he later requested  it so his daughter could have warm 
accommodation and a warm bath. He says he didnt receive any response  to his later 
requests.
As Mr W wasnt satisfied  with UKIs  rejection of his claim, he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered that Mr Ws complaint  should  be upheld,  and that UKI 
should pay Mr W £250 plus interest  towards his new boiler, £250 for alternative 
accommodation, and £300 compensation of the distress and inconvenience  he and his 
family had experienced.
UKI doesnt agree with our investigators  assessment and has asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman. So Mr Ws complaint has been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Its undisputed  that at some time before  February  2019, some tissue/paper towel had been 
left inside Mr Ws boiler. The reason may have been to suppress evidence of a leak,  but this 
is immaterial.  The fact is it appears  to have  been there for some time, and was in a mouldy 
condition, such as might cause a danger to health  and also a danger  of fire.
Ref: DRN94234663Initially Contractor M and then Contractor C were  the appointed contractors for UKI. Both 
deny liability, and have  given their various reasons for doing  so. 
Our investigator conducted a very thorough  analysis  of the information  provided to him and 
having reviewed  this material myself, I agree  with his conclusion. 
I consider that there was negligence on the part of either Contractor M or Contractor  C, and 
although I agree with our investigator that on the balance of probabilities  it was Contractor  M 
who was responsible, I dont need  to make that finding for the purposes of my decision.
Ultimately, whether Contractor M or Contractor  C was responsible,  Mr W didnt have any 
contract with them. His contract  was with UKI, and its UKI who in my view is ultimately liable 
for any failures arising under his insurance policy.
The evidence is that the tissues caused corrosion to a number of parts within  the boiler to 
the extent that it was declared to be beyond  economic repair and a new boiler  was
necessary. I think it would be unfair for Mr W to be financially disadvantaged by the acts of 
UKIs contractors.
I therefore think it would be reasonable for UKI to reimburse to Mr W what he had to pay for 
a new boiler. He had to pay £500, and UKI has already paid him £250 as a BER payment 
under his policy. Im therefore going  to require it to pay a further £250.
Mr Ws policy also provides for up to £250  to be paid for one nights  alternative  accommodation.  
This wasnt provided for Mr W and his family  when  he asked for it. I therefore  consider that UKI 
should pay him this sum by way of compensation for its failure  to provide alternative 
accommodation when  it was needed.
I also consider that Mr W should be compensated for the trouble and upset he and his family 
experienced for being without hot water and their main source of heating between  27 February 
and 15 March 2019, and also for the fact that UKI didnt  address his concerns promptly and 
spent considerable time in trying to clarify  as between Contractor M and Contractor C where  
responsibility lay. That was something that couldve been done after Mr Ws concerns had been 
addressed. In its final response  letter to Mr W, UKI sought to deflect the complaint onto its 
contractors. I feel in the circumstances an award  of £300 is appropriate.
I appreciate that Mr W says that his family suffered  ill health  and attributes  this to spores 
from the tissue within the boiler and possibly to a leak of gas due to corrosion. Whilst I can 
understand why Mr W believes there  to be a connection between  the condition  of the boiler 
and health problems, because Ive seen  nothing by way of medical evidence to support this, 
I dont feel I can award  any compensation on this ground.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
1.To pay Mr W £250 towards the cost of his new boiler, and to pay interest  on this sum 
at the simple rate of 8% a year from 15 March 2019  when  he paid for his boiler to the 
date payment is made to him.
Ref: DRN94234664If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr W a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
1.To pay Mr W £250 compensation for its failure to provide  alternative  accommodation.
2.To pay Mr W £300 compensation for trouble and upset.
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  elements within  28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
The February 2019 claim for the boiler breakdown and all amounts paid hereunder should 
be removed from Mr Ws claims  history and should not affect his ability  to renew his policy  or 
increase any future premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9423466