K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs R applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
The MPPI covered  Mr R only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances  at the time.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr R so it had to check that the policy was right for 
him but I dont think it was. I say this because Mr R was over 63 years old when he applied 
for the policy and was only able to claim the full benefit the policy  provided for a limited time. 
I dont think Mr R wouldve bought the policy if Santander had made  clear  it wasnt right for 
him So, I think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of what Santander  did wrong. 
Santander has told us that the policy wasnt sold alongside any borrowing so Mr R would  
have known he had a choice in taking  the policy and at the time he could still have  claimed 
the full benefit.  But as Ive said above  Mr R could only have claimed the full benefit the policy 
provided for a short time so I dont think it was right for him.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs R in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
Ref: DRN90135812 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9013581