K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Services Limited  overcharged her and 
her late husband  for their home insurance policy. 
background 
Mrs T and her late husband took out a home insurance policy  in a branch of Lloyds Bank in 
2008. Mr T sadly  passed away in 2016  at which point Mrs Ts family helped her review her 
finances. They thought she was paying  too much  for her home insurance policy  over £600  
a year  so they helped her find alternative  cover with another insurer for £120 a year. Mrs T 
complained to Lloyds.  
Mrs T said she felt that Lloyds had taken  advantage  of her and her late husband. She said 
all their finances were with Lloyds so the adviser had access  to all their accounts  and 
financial information. She said he knew they had a modest income and a modest property. 
Mrs T also said shed  assumed that they had been paying competitively priced premiums so 
she was surprised to discover she could obtain  much cheaper cover. Finally she said the 
policy they had included un-necessary cover for some risks. 
Lloyds looked  into Mrs Ts complaint but didnt think it had done anything  wrong. It said it 
couldnt comment on the sale itself due to the time that had passed. But it said it had sent 
them a welcome  pack explaining the cover in detail and gave them a 14 day cooling off 
period in case they changed their minds.  It also said they were sent a renewal pack each 
year. Lloyds said this was an invitation  which they didnt have to accept if they felt the 
premium no longer reflected the cover  and service provided. Lloyds  said the price charged 
each year had been  calculated  correctly.  And with regard to the cover  Mrs T said she didnt 
need, Lloyds said it hadnt attracted any additional  premium anyway but was included as 
standard. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  findings, Mrs T complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
investigated her complaint  and, following his involvement, Lloyds said it would make Mrs T a 
financial offer in order to settle her complaint. Lloyds offered to refund a portion of some  of 
the premiums Mrs T had paid together  with compensation for some  time she didnt have the 
money and compensation of £150 for any trouble and upset caused. All in all Lloyds said it 
would pay Mrs T at total of £559.40.
Our adjudicator put Lloyds offer to Mrs T and said that he thought it was fair in all the 
circumstances. He mentioned that Mrs T had made two claims during the lifetime of the 
policy and that the policy had attracted an introductory offer in 2008 of a 50% discount for 
contents cover. 
Mrs T replied to say that she was disappointed that her claims had been taken into account. 
She asked  for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to tell Lloyds what price it needed  to charge Mrs T for her home  insurance.  
Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk of Mrs T needing to make a claim and its 
Ref: DRN93121332wider commercial requirements. These will include the cost of it selling the policy  in branch.  
But I can intervene if I think Lloyds  has treated Mrs T unfairly  in the way its priced her policy. 
Following our adjudicators investigation  of the complaint, Lloyds offered to pay Mrs T 
£559.40. This amount was made up of a partial refund of her premiums from 2012, some  
compensation for the time she didnt have the money and some compensation for any upset 
caused.
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account the premium  history 
and Mrs Ts personal circumstances. Having carefully considered the offer made, I think that 
it represents fair compensation in all the circumstances.  Its difficult  to work  out what saving 
a consumer wouldve  made over the years. Just because a consumer has recently identified 
a much cheaper policy, doesnt  mean  thats the price they wouldve paid over the intervening 
period. Insurers are entitled to reassess  the risks they are presented  with at renewal and set 
the price accordingly.  
Mrs T had the benefit of cover for her home from Lloyds, and I note that she did claim twice. 
Of course the claims were  not the fault of Mrs T but, when a consumer makes a claim, they 
typically affect the premium at the next renewal.  Thats because the fact a claim has been 
made affects  the insurers perception  of the risk it is being asked to take on. And the greater 
the risk the more  the insurer will usually charge for it. Of course insurance is there  to provide 
cover for unforeseen events but when claims are made, insurers  are entitled to take them 
into account when  deciding what price to charge for cover at the next renewal. Thats  not 
something this service would normally interfere with. 
Part of Mrs Ts complaint  is that she and her late husband were mis-sold their policy.  That it 
provided them with cover they didnt need  at a cost they didnt need to pay. Unfortunately,  
due to the passage of time since the sale was made, theres  insufficient  information available 
for me to say that this was the case. 
Mrs T says she was paying for cover she didnt need. For example the policy  included  office 
equipment cover as standard but she had no office equipment to cover. I can see that the 
particular covers Mrs T has referred to werent policy  add-ons.  So that means they didnt 
attract any extra premium. The cover Mrs T says she didnt need formed  part of the overall 
product she was offered. Any policy that is tailored to a consumers specific  needs can 
sometimes significantly increase the price.  Typically there is a more  in-depth application 
process and sometimes a home visit from the insurer.  All of which could  significantly add to 
the cost. If Mrs T had been  asked to pay extra for add-ons she didnt need then I would say 
that shed been treated unfairly.  But she wasnt. So I dont think  Lloyds has done anything 
wrong. 
Mrs T has also mentioned she thinks she was targeted because  she was older  and 
vulnerable. Shes said that she hopes  this service can look into the way Lloyds was selling 
insurance as maybe other vulnerable people had been targeted too. What  this service looks  
at is individual  consumers complaints.  But where our decisions find wrongdoing on the part 
of a business, it is generally required  to learn  from that and amend its conduct accordingly.  
Generic complaints  about insurance  practices need  to be directed to the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Although  Mrs T should rest assured that her concerns are 
being looked at more  generally by the regulator in light of the increased number of similar 
complaints that this service has received against  various members of the industry,  a lot of 
which are from vulnerable customers. 
Ref: DRN93121333I appreciate that the amount Lloyds has offered may not be as much  as Mrs T had hoped  
for. But, when considering  complaints  about  insurance pricing, calculating compensation 
isnt an exact  science. Thats because theres no set price that insurers charge for cover and 
its very difficult  to determine  what saving  a customer  may have made  and what  its fair for a 
business to have charged. But Ive looked carefully at Mrs Ts case and, when deciding what 
fair compensation should be, Ive thought about  her premium history, personal 
circumstances and our approach to these types  of cases more generally. Having done so, I 
think that the compensation offered by Lloyds is fair taking account  the particular 
circumstances involved.
Finally, as a little time has now passed since Lloyds offered  to pay Mrs T £559.40,  the 
portion of its offer that relates to compensation for the time Mrs T has been without the 
money (in other words, interest  at this services  usual  rate of 8% simple per year)  will need 
to be updated  to reflect the further passage of time. 
my final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Services  Limited  should  pay Mrs T 
£559.40 in settlement of her complaint together with the additional  interest* that has accrued  
at this services usual rate of 8% simple a year from the date it made the offer to the date it 
pays Mrs T. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
 
Ref: DRN9312133