K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that an appointed representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  
Limited mis-sold her a mortgage.
background
Ms L had a mortgage,  which  was part interest only and part repayment. She had an 
endowment in place.  The mortgage  was on a discounted rate  discounted  against  the 
lenders standard  variable  rate.
Following advice from L&G, Ms L re-mortgaged to another  lender. She consolidated  her 
unsecured debts to the new mortgage,  and took a fixed rate instead  of the previous discount. 
She had to pay an early  repayment charge (ERC) to her existing lender to move her 
mortgage.
Ms Ls now represented by a claims management company (CMC),  which  complains on her 
behalf that the mortgage was unsuitable. It says there was no need to re-mortgage, or do so 
then  so the ERC was unnecessary. Ms L had no need to consolidate her debts. And the 
fees paid to secure the mortgage  were unfair.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so the CMC asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the fact find taken at the time  theres been no suggestion  its inaccurate   
that Ms L had two credit cards and a personal  loan.  The CMC says that there  was no need  
to consolidate  these debts because Ms L had a surplus  of income over expenditure of over 
£600 per month,  so could manage them comfortably. But L&G points to Ms Ls expenditure, 
which it says is surprisingly  low, and leads  it to conclude  that she was more  overstretched 
than the figures  suggest.
I agree  that Ms Ls expenditure appears low. But I think its just as likely thats because  of a 
lifestyle choice, rather than financial difficulties.  She had a significant surplus each month,  
relative to her income,  and theres  no evidence that she was struggling.
Equally, however, its clear that she did want to reduce her outgoings  if possible.  
Consolidating her debts  to the mortgage  achieved that. And I agree with the investigator 
that, in respect  of the loan at least, the additional  cost over the mortgage term  especially  if 
Ms L continued to take new fixed rates after this one expired   is likely to be marginal. And 
although Ms L wanted to raise an additional £2,000  for home improvements, she elected  to 
consolidate debt instead when it became clear  both werent possible because of her loan to 
value. Consolidating  the debt did increase the loan balance to the level that a higher lending 
charge was incurred   but that was refunded to Ms L in 2012 as part of a settlement of a PPI 
complaint. 
Ms L signed a note,  dated 25 February 2005,  as the mortgage was completing, to confirm 
that her priority  was to consolidate  her debt even if there was an additional higher lending  
Ref: DRN92663932charge, though her later letter to the broker explains that she was still unhappy there was a 
higher charge  it seems  because  the propertys valuation was lower than expected, tipping 
her over the loan to value threshold for the charge.  But she still chose to go ahead.  
Although she was clearly  unhappy at having to pay the higher lending charge at the time, its 
since been refunded. And, that apart, I dont think the additional  costs  are sufficient to 
outweigh her wishes from the time. 
Ms L had to pay a charge to her previous lender  to exit its mortgage. She was on a discount 
rate, and was concerned about  the general  upward trajectory of interest  rates. She had two 
years to go on her previous product, and waiting that long wouldnt allow  her to reduce her 
outgoings as she wanted, or allow her to fix her rate against future rises. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think the advice was unsuitable because it allowed Ms L to achieve 
her priorities  at the time. Nor do I think the fees the broker charged should  be refunded, 
since Ms L understood what she was required to pay and received the service she paid for. 
L&G has offered  to refund commission the broker received  from the solicitor,  plus £100, and 
I think thats a fair offer. I dont require it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9266393