K820x#14complaint
Mr Z, represented by Mrs Z, complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase  
agreement (HPA) with Secure Trust Bank  Plc (trading as Moneyway) was not of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Mr Z entered  into a HPA with Moneyway in May 2018 to acquire a used car. He experienced 
a number of issues  with the car. First was a problem  with the clutch  which was repaired by 
the dealer. Then there was an issue with the brakes  and then a problem  with the radiator  
and injectors.
Moneyway says that Mr Z contacted it in June 2018 about issues with his car. It says the 
broker told it that repairs had been  carried out to the clutch  and gearbox by the dealer but 
that Mr Z had then raised issues with the brakes and so an independent  inspection  was 
arranged.
The inspection took place and Moneyway says that this said that the brakes were road legal 
and not faulty.  It says that the report indicated the car was fit for purpose at the point of 
supply and so the complaint was not upheld.
Mrs Z contacted Moneyway again  about  the brakes and also raised  an issue  about  an oil 
and coolant leak.  She then contacted  it saying the car would be taken to a garage for issues  
with the radiator. Moneyway says Mrs Z was frustrated that the dealer had not undertaken 
the repairs. On 21 August  Mrs Z raised  an issue with the injectors.
Moneyway says that it considered the issues raised but given the inspection  hadnt noted 
these it considered these  issues occurred post-supply.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that although brake pads and discs  were 
wearable items she didnt  think  it reasonable that they needed replacing so soon after 
acquisition of the car. Because of this she recommended that Moneyway refund Mr Z the 
cost to the repairs to the brakes.
Moneyway did not accept  our investigators view.  It said the brake discs were  roadworthy at 
the point of supply and that although  they had a limited remaining life this was normal  wear  
and tear. It reiterated  the age and mileage of the car at acquisition and said given  this it was 
reasonable to expect  items to have  suffered wear and tear.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the first issue experienced was with the clutch and this was repaired by dealer so I 
didnt considered this further;
the next issue raised was with the brakes. An inspection was carried  out on 26 June  
2018 when the cars  mileage was 84,750. The report set out that there was a modest 
level of brake judder  and the future useful life was limited. It said the brakes were 
serviceable and the car was road legal;
Ref: DRN90356682the brakes were  towards the end of their life when the car was supplied  but I didnt  
think it fair to require Moneyway to cover  the cost of the brake repairs.  This was 
because the brakes are serviceable  items and subject to wear and tear. Given  the 
age and mileage  of the car, I thought it not unreasonable to expect these to need  
replacement at some point;
replacement of the brakes was raised  shortly  after acquisition,  but the inspection 
report confirmed they were still legal at that time and the MOT carried out in March 
2018 did not raise  the brakes  as an issue;
I didnt think I could  fairly say, based on the above, that the car was not fit for 
purpose at the point  of supply or that the car was not of satisfactory  quality at that 
time;
further issues were raised  in regard to the radiator  and injectors. The June inspection 
set out that there  was no evidence of oil or coolant leaks  from the car and that there 
were no untoward features in regard to the general handling,  transmission  or 
temperature of the car. Based on this I didnt find I could say these issues  were 
present from the point  of supply.
I understood why Mr Z was upset by the repairs that needed to be carried  out on his car. 
However as the evidence  suggested the car was fit for purpose  at the point of supply, I didnt 
uphold this complaint.
Mrs Z said that Mr Z was not happy  with my provisional decision but no further information 
was provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z entered  into a HPA with Moneyway dated 14 May 2018 to acquire a used car. Under  
the regulations,  Moneyway can be held liable if the car was not of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply.  Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  as the age and mileage 
of the car. In this case the car was registered in September 2011 and had been driven 
83,620 miles at the point of acquisition.
Mr Z has experienced a number of issues with the car. However my role is to decide if these 
were the result of faults that were present or developing at the point of sale,  and if the car 
was not fit for purpose at that time.  I also consider issues such  as the durability of the car 
when deciding whether it was of satisfactory quality.  With used cars, it is possible that issues  
may arise shortly  after acquisition even  though  they are not present at the point of supply.  
And this will be due to general usage, and wear and tear.
In this case, as I set out in my provisional  decision,  I did not find that there was enough 
evidence to say that the issues with the brakes meant that the car was not fit for purpose or 
not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of acquisition. I also did not find that there was 
sufficient evidence to say that the other issues raised were  present from the point  of supply. 
While I appreciate that my decision is a disappointment to Mr Z, I do not find that I have 
enough evidence  to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN90356683my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9035668