K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007 alongside a further advance. Miss M says Furness  Building  Society  (Furness) mis-
sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And Furness told us that the 
commission for Miss Ms PPI was less than 50% of what she paid, so it didnt need to pay 
back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. 
And Ive decided Furness didnt need to tell Miss M about the commission it received - so 
Furness doesnt need to pay back any of the commission  Miss M paid for the PPI. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ref: DRN92660282I think Furness made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because this was a sale by phone. And while Furness  hasnt got 
a call recording, it has provided  us with a Call Guide  a call script and a record of what 
it says was discussed with Miss M at the time including the answers she gave to some 
questions the representative asked. Looking  at this I can see that at the start of the call 
the script  prompts the representative to explain that PPI wasnt a condition  of the 
mortgage and that before taking out the cover  Miss M should  be satisfied that the policy 
was suitable for her needs.
Towards the end of the call guide,  after Miss M had been asked a series  of questions to 
establish her eligibility for the cover and after the representative had provided  certain  
pieces of information about the policy, including the policy cost, its documented that 
Miss M was asked if she wanted  cover. And its recorded that she said she did. Furness 
has also provided a copy of the separate PPI application Miss M completed  and returned 
to confirm her agreement to the cover.
And finally Ive also seen a copy of Miss Ms further  advance offer letter,  which set out 
the details of the PPI and described the cover in a section titled Optional Insurance
So taking everything into account, I think Miss M chose to take out PPI and she likely did 
so without undue pressure. 
Im satisfied  Furness didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M - so it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable  for her. But it did have to give Miss M enough clear  and 
timely information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
While  the Call Guide I referred  to above  suggests  Miss M was told some information  
about the policy, including its cost and that the policy contained a limitation for claiming 
for a pre-existing condition, I accept its possible the information Furness  gave Miss M 
about the PPI overall wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found  that she chose 
to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  The cover wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for Miss M  for example she was eligible for the cover and she 
didnt have any unusual  employment circumstances. 
Miss M told us she was in good health  at the time. But the record  of the call with Miss M 
indicates she did have  a health issue. Despite  this I think on balance Miss M was given 
enough clear information  to understand  she couldnt  claim  for her condition for the first 
24 months of cover.  It appears  the representative explained this during the call and 
before Miss M was asked if she wanted  to go ahead.
So it appears the policy wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably  thought she was 
buying from the information  she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  Because of this I 
dont think Miss M would have declined  the cover had Furness done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. 
So I think she would have  still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN92660283Overall, I consider that Miss M would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time  particularly given she 
didnt have any existing  means to rely on and the policy was protecting  her mortgage  and 
ultimately her home. And in those  circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Furness should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Furness doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Furness didnt  need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Furness doesnt need to do pay back any of the commission Miss M paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Miss Ms representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN92660284In summary  they have  said Miss M should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: Furness  failed to tell Miss M about  the high commission  and profit-share rates  
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say 
that meant  the policy was poor value,  I should find that Miss M wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about  the level of commission  and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But in this case, Furness has told us that the commission for Miss Ms PPI was less than half 
of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Furness has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Ms case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Furness needed  to tell Miss M about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think Furness  treated Miss M 
unfairly. 
This means  Furness doesnt  need to pay Miss M back any of the commission  she paid for 
the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Furness Building  Society didnt need to disclose  the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss M paid for 
the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9266028