K822xcomplaint
Miss Z complains about a cosmetic treatment package that was financed through a fixed  
sum loan agreement with etika  Finance UK Limited  (trading as Paybreak).
background 
Miss Z entered into a contract  with a supplier  Ill call S in March 2018.  The contract stated
that Miss Z would be provided with the following:
A VIP package of 12 facials,  four diagnostics, and a facial kit 
A facial toning device
A VIP package of 12 body treatments
The total cost of the package came to £4,480.05. Miss Z paid an upfront amount of £280.05
with her credit card and was due to pay a further  £300, although I understand  she didnt do
so. The remaining cost of £3,900 was to be paid with a fixed sum loan agreement with etika
Finance UK Limited, trading as Paybreak  (Paybreak).
Miss Z said she found it difficult to get slots for the various treatments and had only received
three of these before finding  out that S had ceased trading. Miss Z contacted  Paybreak  who
told her that they were  looking  to source an alternative  supplier to complete the treatment
package.
Miss Z then complained to Paybreak  and mentioned that S had been trading fraudulently,
she hadnt received  the service shed signed up for, and that Paybreaks  offer to source  the
alternative supplier wasnt acceptable  as they didnt offer a like for like replacement.
Paybreak looked into Miss Zs complaint  and said in summary that she had received original
products and treatments  and so wouldnt refund her the total amount shed paid in full. They
also said that they had offered alternative  treatments  of a higher quality from the
replacement supplier. Paybreak did though offer to credit Miss Zs loan account with 
£2,303.66 for the parts of the package that she hadnt been able to redeem. They calculated
this by attributing an equal cost of £118.18  to each  element of the package which they
worked out to be 33 elements with an overall  cost of £3,900.
This left Miss Zs account as having an outstanding balance of £73.84  which they offered to
waive leaving Miss Z with nothing further  to pay,
Miss Z wasnt  happy with Paybreaks response. She said the replacement  treatment would
have been completely different to that offered by S. Miss Z also mentioned that ex-staff of S
were being  employed  by the replacement supplier  and she didnt trust them  to carry out the
service bearing in mind  what shed  said about  Ss practices.
Miss Z said she wasnt aware she signed  up to a loan agreement with Paybreak and thought
she was paying  S by instalments. And she reiterated  that shed only received three
treatments.
Paybreak replied  saying that Miss Z was aware  shed entered into finance  with them. They
acknowledged that the treatments being offered as a replacement werent identical but felt
that as they targeted  the same skin issues, this was sufficient as a remedy.  
Ref: DRN91166922Paybreak also said that although ex-staff of S were  working for the replacement provider, 
this didnt mean that their trustworthiness  should  be called into question. However, they 
revised their previous  offer to Miss Z by calculating that the cost of the package  equalled 
£4,180.45 and that there were 18 elements under the contract (12 treatments, 4 diagnostics,  
1 facial kit and the device) and attributed an equal  cost of £232.25 to each. As Miss Z had 
redeemed seven of these elements, this left a total of £2,554.48 to refund her which  would 
leave a credit of £116.98. Paybreak offered to refund  Miss Z this with interest at 8% added.
Miss Z didnt accept Paybreaks  response so referred her complaint to us. Our investigator
upheld this and said, in summary, that the replacement  service being offered by Paybreak
didnt give repeat performance  of the contract  that was to be provided  by S. He also
mentioned that this offer from Paybreak  hadnt been offered in a reasonable time and
without significant  inconvenience to Miss Z. So, he felt that Miss Z was entitled to a price
reduction of the value  of the goods  and services that were to have been provided  by S.
The investigator felt that S had contracted to provide  Miss Z with 30 elements, namely 12
treatments, four diagnostics, a facial kit, the device and 12 body treatments.  The total cost of
this on the contract  totalled £4,480.05 and the investigator attributed  an equal cost to all 30
elements of £149.33. He felt that Miss Z had received five elements of the contract, which
were three facial treatments, the facial kit and the device. This meant Miss Z would be liable
for £746.80 overall under her loan agreement and he recommended that Paybreak treat this
as such.
Miss Z replied asking whether wed concluded that S had operated  a scam. She said that
she shouldnt be expected to pay for the device as it was provided  for free. Paybreak  said
that Miss Z had received  four treatments rather  than three (which were  liposuction, a facial,
microdermabrasion and a laser  treatment) and had also received a diagnostic.
The investigator revised his view following Paybreaks comments  saying that Miss Z had
received seven elements under the contract  and that her total liability to Paybreak was
£1,045.46. Miss Z disagreed with this interpretation and said she hadnt received liposuction
treatment and shouldnt  have to pay for a diagnostic which  was designed to check  the
outcome of a treatment.  She also reiterated that the device  was free. Miss Z subsequently
told our investigator that she would  be prepared to pay for four elements under the contract.
Miss Z didnt accept the investigators findings  and so her complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
My provisional decision 
In my provisional findings, I set out why I was minded to partly uphold  Miss Zs complaint. I 
found that there had been a clear breach of contract  on the part of S as it had not provided 
Miss Z with all the agreed  procedures and treatments. I also found that Paybreak could be 
held equally  liable  for this taking into account the provisions of Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. And I also noted that Paybreak didnt dispute any of this. 
I will summarise  my other key findings  as set out in my provisional decision. 
Was Miss Z misled about how the contract with S would  be financed? 
Ref: DRN91166923Miss Z had said that she wasnt aware  she had entered into a finance agreement  with 
Paybreak and was under the impression she was simply paying S for the package  via 
monthly instalments.
However, I noted that, by entering  into a finance  agreement, Miss Z was afforded the 
protection that Section  75 gave, namely  that she could hold Paybreak  equally liable for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by S. If such a finance agreement wasnt in place, 
then Miss Z would likely  have to take action against  S herself. I mentioned  that I wouldnt be 
able to look at the breach of contract against  S, as a case  against S, as that falls outside of 
our remit.  S only falls within our jurisdiction as a credit broker.  And I noted  that S is now in 
liquidation which would further complicate any complaint made  against  them.
I also noted that Paybreak had sent me copies of several e-mails that were  sent to Miss Zs 
e-mail address which included a link to the finance agreement and confirmation  of a direct  
debit being set up. Miss Z said to me that these were received but went into her spam folder. 
So, it seemed  reasonably  clear that Paybreak  did send these to Miss Zs correct e-mail 
address. And I mentioned  that I hadnt  seen  any evidence that Miss Zs payments  each  
month were  going to S, which I thought Miss Z would have likely  raised  if she was concerned 
about how this was being paid.  
So, overall, I wasnt satisfied that S had misrepresented how the contract with them was to 
be financed.
Is Miss Z entitled  to a refund for the breach of contract as she requested? 
In my provisional decision,  I noted that Paybreak had originally sought to source a 
replacement supplier for S, so that the contract could be completed in full. I referred  to the 
relevant sections of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) (the legislation that implies  terms 
into the contract between  S and Miss Z). My starting  point was Section 54 which states  that 
a consumer has the right to require repeat performance or the right to a price  reduction 
where the services  provided doesnt  conform to the contract. I also considered Section 56 of 
the CRA  which covers  when someone is entitled to a price reduction,  which  in reference to 
Section 55(3) of the CRA would be for example when performance  of the original contract  
was impossible. 
I noted that Miss Z hadnt asked for repeat performance of the contract, but had asked for a 
full refund, which was in effect a price  reduction. But I also gave my thoughts on Paybreaks  
offer to source a replacement supplier. 
I wasnt persuaded that the replacement supplier  would have been able to complete the 
contract in such as a way as to fulfil how S was supposed to perform it. I felt that the nature 
of facial and body  treatments was such that these would differ  from one supplier to another  
and that suppliers would likely use different techniques and products. I felt also that the 
assessment of the suitability of any replacement treatment was complicated by the contract 
not being particularly specific about  what the received products and treatments would be.  
I also noted that it had taken  a lengthy amount of time for Paybreak to source the alternative 
supplier during which time Miss Z still had to pay Paybreak each month under the terms of 
her loan agreement.  And that Miss Z had entered  into the contract with S on the reasonable
understanding that this was a treatment  package where such  large gaps  between  treatments 
would likely  lessen the benefits of those  treatments as an overall package.
Ref: DRN91166924So, taking everything  into account, I thought a price  reduction was the fair and appropriate
remedy for Miss Z. 
Is Miss Z entitled  to a full refund?
I considered Miss Zs comments  that she believed S was operating a scam. I noted though 
that she received  some  of the treatments  under the contract before S ceased  trading and 
would have received the benefit of those treatments. I said this predominantly because I 
wasnt satisfied there  was enough  evidence  that would make  me think  the products used 
werent genuine products. I felt that this looked  to me more a dispute around whether S was 
entitled to use or licence  the products from the trademark  owner, rather  than Miss Z being 
given treatments using  products  that were counterfeit  (and potentially ineffectual). 
So, in view of this, I didnt  think it would be reasonable or proportionate for Miss Z to
receive a full refund of what shed paid.  I thought  it reasonable for Miss Z to pay for the 
goods and services she did receive.
What should the price  reduction be?
I thought the fairest  way to calculate this would  be to attribute an equal cost to all of the 
elements in the contract. I felt that, having  looked  at the contract, S had agreed to provide 
Miss Z with 30 different elements. These  were  12 treatments, four diagnostics, a facial kit, a 
facial toning device  and 12 body treatments. 
I noted that Miss Z wasnt happy  with that as she felt that it would be unlikely that each of 
these elements would  have  had an equal  cost. However,  I mentioned that I hadnt seen any 
evidence that specific, different  costs were applied to the individual elements in the contract.  
And it wasnt obvious that some elements should have been a lot more valuable  than others, 
particularly as we have seen other contracts between S and consumers which attributed the 
same elements as shown  in Miss Zs contract, at differing prices and with discounts.
So, this made working out how much each element had as a monetary  value all but 
impossible to determine. This is why I felt an equal cost for each element would be fair to 
determine the amount of the price reduction. 
I calculated that the cost for each element was £149.33.  And I said that I was satisfied that 
Miss Z had received a total of seven elements of the 30 shown on the contract. I noted that 
Paybreak had said that Miss Z received four treatments,  namely  liposuction,  a facial,
microdermabrasion and a laser  treatment. They also said that Miss Z had a diagnostic  and
was provided with the facial kit and the facial toning  device.  That worked out to be seven
elements of the contract.
I also noted that Miss Z had said that she didnt  receive liposuction,  and that the diagnostic  
and facial toning  device shouldnt attract a cost.  However, I mentioned that Id seen evidence 
from Paybreak that showed  the list of appointments attended by Miss Z. This included  the 
liposuction treatment as well as the other treatments that Miss Z said she did receive. I said 
that I hadnt been sufficiently persuaded that Miss Z didnt receive liposuction treatment 
taking into account  the documentary evidence.  And, as Id already mentioned  that I thought 
each of the 30 elements should be given an equal cost, it followed that such a cost would be 
attributed to both the diagnostic and the facial toning device.
Ref: DRN91166925As Miss Z had contracted to pay a total of £4,480.05 to S, I calculated  the price  reduction to 
be £3,434.74,  which meant that Miss Zs total liability  under the supply contract was 
£1,045.31. This meant that Miss Zs total liability to Paybreak was the same, as the finance 
agreement with them had financed the contract between Miss Z and S.  
To put things right, I said I intended  to direct Paybreak to reduce the balance owed under the 
finance agreement  so that Miss Z was only liable  for a total of £1,045.31. I clarified that this 
amount should  include  the deposit  of £280.05  that Miss Z paid S. And I gave some 
additional instruction on what Paybreak should  do if this recalculation meant that Miss Z had 
overpaid more than she was liable for, or if it left a zero balance owing. 
I also mentioned that Paybreak should  remove any negative information it had recorded on 
Miss Zs credit file, from the point S stopped  trading.  
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision. Paybreak replied saying that they 
agreed with this and had carried  out the remedy  I had proposed upon receipt of the decision. 
Miss Z didnt reply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, I note that neither party has 
provided any further information or evidence for me to consider following my provisional 
decision. So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings  and the summary of this 
that I have  outlined in the above sections of this decision. Nor do I see any reason to depart  
from the required settlement I originally  outlined. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct etika Finance UK Limited  to do
the following  (if it has not done so already):
Recalculate Miss Zs liability to them under the loan agreement  by ensuring that she
is only liable to pay a total of £1,045.31;
In the event this leaves a zero balance, etika Finance UK Limited should end the
finance agreement;
If Miss Z has already  repaid more  than £1,045.31 (including any deposit  she paid),
and the price reduction results in a credit  balance, then the overpayment should be
refunded to her, plus 8% simple yearly interest.  Interest  is to be applied from when
any overpayment was made until the date of settlement. The finance agreement  
should be ended as well;
Remove any adverse  information they have  recorded on Miss Zs credit file, after S
ceased trading.
If etika Finance UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest  that is to be awarded, it should tell Miss Z how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Miss Z a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN91166926Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9116692