K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr and Mrs E took out in May 2008. The loan was 
originally with a different  lender and was passed  to Elderbridge Limited on 16 January 2016. 
For ease of reading Ill simply refer to Elderbridge  throughout this decision, but that should 
be taken to mean the previous lender where appropriate. Mr and Mrs E are unhappy  that 
they still owe so much on the loan.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out this secured loan in May 2008. They originally borrowed £25,000 plus 
just over £6,000  for PPI. The loan was due to be repaid over a 20-year term.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs E got into financial difficulties and were in arrears on the loan. On 
13 January 2016  the interest  was suppressed.  This means the normal loan account  
remained interest-bearing but, instead of the interest being added  to that balance, the 
interest due each month on the outstanding debt accrued in a separate account which 
wasnt interest-bearing. 
Mr and Mrs E received a settlement figure and complained to Elderbridge that the figure was 
so high, bearing in mind  how much theyd already paid to the loan account over the years.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but he did feel £100 
compensation should be paid to Mr and Mrs E for mis-information  Elderbridge gave in its 
final response letter. Mr and Mrs E accepted that, but Elderbridge  didnt, saying it felt £50 
was more appropriate. As an agreement wasnt reached its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs E had been struggling  to pay their loan. One particular  thing that was done  to 
help them was to stop adding interest onto the loan account as otherwise theyd be paying 
interest on interest - known as compound interest  - if they didnt keep up their payments.  
Instead Elderbridge  carried  on calculating the interest in the background, as it was still due, 
but as it wasnt applied to the account  it didnt attract interest itself. This is known as simple  
interest. This also meant  any payments Mr and Mrs E may make  going  forward  would go 
towards reducing their arrears. Ultimately, it meant Mr and Mrs E were charged less interest 
than they would have been  otherwise.  
The figures on the loan agreement are based  on a person  paying  all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen  here as Mr and Mrs E have been in arrears. The contract Mr and Mrs E 
entered into required each contractual monthly payment to be made on time in the month  it 
was due. As interest  is constantly being  charged this means its not as simple as making  up 
a missed payment,  theres also the extra  interest incurred for every day that payment is 
overdue. This interest  can add up significantly  as for each delayed payment extra interest  
will be charged on the unpaid capital for every  day it is late.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  or 
Ref: DRN91564922incorrect. Of course, its open to Mr and Mrs E to instruct an independent  and 
suitably-qualified  professional to audit their account.  But that would have to be at their 
expense - though  if errors were found  to their financial detriment, they could complain about 
them and their costs  in discovering them  could  be taken  into account in putting matters right. 
But as things stand,  Im not persuaded that Elderbridge has mis-managed  their account.
I understand Mr and Mrs E are struggling and theyd like us to help them set up something 
going forward. Unfortunately,  thats not something we can do as it doesnt fall within our 
remit. Mr and Mrs E need to contact Elderbridge to discuss their options, either directly or 
with the help of someone trained to give them free debt advice  - such as StepChange or 
Citizens Advice. If Mr and Mrs E were unhappy  with the outcome of those discussions with 
Elderbridge then that could be a new complaint they could refer to us at the time (subject  to 
our rules, of course). But we cant get involved  unless  Elderbridge  has had a chance to 
discuss the options with Mr and Mrs E, and then had the opportunity  to deal with a complaint 
from Mr and Mrs E about those discussions.
Id encourage  Mr and Mrs E to contact Elderbridge (either directly, or via an agency  as Ive 
explained above) and have an open  and honest  conversation about their circumstances and 
worries for both now and the future. Theyll  need to work together  and that means 
Mr and Mrs E will need  to be frank  about their situation. And Elderbridge will need to listen to 
what they have  to say and, fairly  and sympathetically, see if theres  a way to work  with them  
to agree a way forward. 
Finally, Ive considered  the mis-information Elderbridge provided in its final response letter.  
Whilst I understand Elderbridge feels £50 compensation is fair, Im satisfied the £100 
recommended by our investigator is more appropriate. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and order Elderbridge  Limited to pay £100  to Mr and Mrs E. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to accept or reject 
my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156492