K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr H was given four loans  by Peachy  between  October 2013 and April 2014. Mr H repaid 
the first two loans as agreed the month  after hed borrowed. But he was unable to repay  the 
third loan as agreed  and needed to defer his repayment for two months  by paying some 
additional interest. Mr H failed to repay his fourth loan and that debt has been passed  to a 
third party debt collection agency. A summary  of Mr Hs loans from Peachy is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 22/10/2013 25/10/2013 £ 200
2 23/12/2013 21/01/2014 £ 300
3 21/01/2014 14/04/2014 £ 500
4 18/04/2014 - £ 200
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that the last 
two loans should have been  given to Mr H. So she asked  Peachy to pay Mr H some 
compensation. Peachy didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN91923252the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
The repayment on Mr Hs first loan was relatively modest  compared  to the income that he 
declared to Peachy. And although the amount he borrowed  on the second loan had 
increased, it was still likely  to have seemed affordable to Peachy. So given Mr Hs 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about his circumstances  at the time,  and his history 
with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Peachy to ask him for the 
amount of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr H provided or the information  Peachy 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying.  So I dont  think Peachy  was wrong to give these two loans to Mr H.
But Mr H asked to take a third loan on the same day that hed repaid  his previous borrowing. 
The amount  he asked to borrow had increased significantly and his repayment,  due the 
following month, was now more than half his declared income. Given that this was Mr Hs 
third loan in as many months I dont think that it was reasonable for Peachy to conclude that 
he was in a position to sustainably repay  his borrowing. So I dont think  he should  have  been  
given this loan.
As it turns out Mr H wasnt able to easily repay the third loan. He needed to defer  his 
repayment twice,  and so paid some  additional interest. So when Mr H asked to borrow  
again, just four days after finally repaying his loan, I think  Peachy should have suspected 
that he was most likely borrowing again  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan had left 
in his finances. It was unlikely  that hed be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner 
either and so I also dont  think he should  have been given this loan.
Ref: DRN91923253putting things right
I dont think Peachy should  have agreed to lend to Mr H after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 21 January  2014. So for both of those loans Peachy should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr H on the loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I understand that Mr H is currently the subject of a Trust Deed. His insolvency practitioner 
has confirmed that the trust holds an interest in the compensation that is due. Mr H should  
ensure that he liaises with his insolvency practitioner to ensure that any compensation is 
treated correctly. And for that reason I do not consider  it appropriate for Peachy to use any 
of the compensation due to offset the outstanding balance on the final loan that it sold to a 
third party.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Hs complaint and direct Cash  On Go Limited  to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9192325