K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc closed his accounts and wont return  money held in 
them to him. Mr R wants Santander to release the money in his accounts and pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
Background
Mr R had three accounts with Santander.  A current account ending (920),  a savings account 
ending (537)  and a cash ISA ending (879).
On 8 January  2019, a faster payment of £1,500 was made into Mr Rs current  account. 
Santander took the view that it needed to look into the payment and how Mr R was operating  
his accounts.  The bank blocked  all of Mr Rs accounts whilst it did that. 
Santander spoke  to Mr R and asked him about the origin of the money in his accounts. He 
explained that the money was made up from a collection of people  in Nigeria to pay for 
Christmas presents. And from work hed done  through his business overseas. He told the 
bank that he didnt know the individual  who had made the payment of £1,500 into his 
account. But said he had used a bureau de change service in Nigeria between 4 and 20 
December 2018,  to change money  into GBP for work hed done in Nigeria. And he believed  
that the individual was employed at the bureau de change. Mr R said he intended  to use the 
money in his accounts to pay for building  work  on his home.
Santander wasnt satisfied with Mr Rs explanation  and asked him to provide evidence on 
where the money in his accounts had come from. And more information  about his 
relationship with the senders of the payments made into his accounts.
Whilst it waited for Mr R to provide the information it had requested the bank allowed him 
access to the money in his account  ending  879. However, it didnt allow him access to just 
over £300  in his account ending 920 and just over £112,000 in his account  ending 537.
Santander also decided  it no longer  wanted  Mr R as a customer and closed all his accounts 
with 30 days notice.
Mr R provided  documents to the bank which he said showed he was entitled to the money in 
his accounts.  This included statements  from his business account in Nigeria  and three 
receipts dated 4, 11 and 20 December 2018  from the bureau de change service  he says he 
used to change  money  into GBP  from his business in Nigeria. He also provided some bank 
statements and a contract he had with a builder hed engaged to carry out work on his home 
in the UK.
Santander reviewed  the information  Mr R provided  and were  satisfied that he was entitled  to 
five payments which had been made  into his account between 11 and 12 December 2018, 
totalling £13,000. So, it released these  funds to him in March  2019. Santander told Mr R that 
it hadnt seen  sufficient evidence that he was entitled to the remaining funds. And asked him 
to provide further information to show he was entitled to the money  remaining in the 
accounts, which were made  up of numerous faster payments and transfers into the 
accounts. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and asked the bank what information it needed 
Ref: DRN95105882from Mr R so that he could ask Mr R to provide more information. In May 2020 Mr R 
provided a number of receipts, bank statements, and screen shots from mobile phones 
showing payments  to him. The investigator  forwarded this information to Santander.  The 
bank reviewed the information and agreed to release a further  £6,000 to Mr R. However, it 
wasnt satisfied that the majority of the information  provided by Mr R showed he was entitled 
to the remaining funds.
The investigator reviewed  the information  Mr R had provided and agreed  with the banks 
assessment. He said the Santander hadnt  done anything wrong when it reviewed and 
closed Mr Rs accounts. And had acted  in line with the terms and conditions  of the accounts. 
He also said if Mr R provided  any more  information  about the payments into the accounts 
hed forward this onto the bank to review.
 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about  the 
payments into his account and the bank  had taken too long to complete  its review. He also 
said that the bank shouldnt  have  closed his account. And that hed suffered a great deal of 
stress, upset and financial hardship as a result of the banks actions. So, he said Santander 
should pay him compensation.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Mr R feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from whats  hes 
said to us and to Santander.  Whilst I appreciate  Mr Rs frustration, its important to point  out 
that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what  it should  have 
done. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain action in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of 
an existing business  relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers  
accounts and ask for information about payments.  Santander has said that Mr Rs access to 
his account was blocked and reviewed to meet these requirements.
As part of its review process Santander are entitled  to ask a customer for more  information. 
And its not for this service to interfere with the banks  processes. Our role is to see if the 
bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer  back  in the position  theyd  have 
been in if the mistake  hadnt happened.
Mr R says the money going  into his account was money hed earnt from his business 
overseas and exchanged  into GBP using a bureau  de change service  in Nigeria. Hes also 
explained that some of the money  were payments from a collection of people to pay for 
Christmas presents.
In support of what hes said,  Mr Rs provided some bank statements from third parties which 
he says shows the origin  of the money.  And hes provided written statements from the 
bureau de change  stating that he made three currency exchange transactions  along  with 
receipts. More recently Mr R has provided screen shots of accounts (shown on mobile 
phones) showing payments from various individuals and business  into his current  account. 
Ref: DRN95105883Mr R says this information  proves  hes entitled to the money in his accounts. But I dont 
agree. And I would make the following  observations on what  Mr R has produced.
the statement  and receipts from the bureau  de change does not show  that the money 
which was exchanged in December 2018  was the source of the payments made  into 
Mr Rs accounts
the payments  made into Mr Rs accounts were made up of a high volume of faster 
payments and transfers from different  individuals  and businesses  which dont show  
any references and 
Mr R hasnt provided any evidence  about the reason and purpose of the payments, 
for example  invoices  for work  he says he has completed
It maybe that Mr R can now provide more information about the funds in his account.  But, in 
the circumstances I can understand why Santander  wanted  to know about  the funds that 
were paid into Mr Rs accounts.  I can understand too why it didnt consider Mr R had 
adequately explained their source. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong when 
it decided not to release the money remaining in Mr Rs accounts to him. 
Mr R says Santander has taken too long to complete its review  of his accounts.  And should  
have done things more quickly. I do accept that so far it has taken the bank a relatively 
lengthy period  of time to review Mr Rs accounts.  But I do not consider that it would be right 
for me to conclude  it should not have taken in excess of any particular or specific  timeframe.  
Because the bank was entitled   as a matter  of principle  to do what  it did.
I also note that Santander  has spoken  to Mr R on several occasions and asked him to 
provide more information about the credits into his account. Santander also wrote  to Mr R to 
let him know  what it was doing. So, I think Santanders kept Mr R informed about  what its 
doing. And what information it needed  from him. Overall, Im satisfied Santander have taken 
appropriate measures  to find a way forward for him to be able to access the money  
remaining in his bank  account. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Rs accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking  facilities to any 
particular customer.  Unless theres a very good  reason to do so, this service  wont  usually 
say that a bank  must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer  who has had 
their account  closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed  Mr Rs accounts with 30 days notice. In my view that was reasonable, 
given the concerns the bank had about  how Mr R was operating his account. I also think  that 
provided Mr R with enough time to make alternative banking  arrangements. So, it was 
entitled to close  the accounts as it has already done.  
I note too that Mr R says Santander has discriminated  against him  that is its based its 
decision on his characteristics rather than on events.  Im not persuaded thats the case  
though. Im satisfied that its actions were prompted  by legitimate concerns about the source 
of the funds paid into Mr Rs accounts  and his responses to those concerns.
Ref: DRN95105884In summary,  I appreciate  that it was inconvenient  for Mr R when Santander blocked and 
closed his accounts. And didnt release funds held in them. So, I realise he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since  I dont believe Santander acted inappropriately and treated 
Mr R unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9510588