K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to her in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2021. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. We havent  
received anything further from either  Mrs E or ELL.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
In summary,  I think that the checks ELL did before  agreeing the loan were proportionate. 
And I dont  think the results of those checks should have led to the loan request being 
declined. So I dont  think this complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91364042EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs E complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL)  lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs E was given two loans by ELL. She borrowed  £2,000 in December 2009 that she agreed to repay  
in 24 monthly  instalments. She then refinanced  that loan in June 2010 by borrowing £2,588,  that she 
agreed to repay  in 36 monthly instalments. Mrs E faced problems making the repayments on the 
second loan when her circumstances  changed  in early 2011. ELL agreed a reduced repayment 
amount that Mrs E has been paying ever since. When  she made her complaint a balance still 
remained outstanding  on the loan.
The complaint that Mrs E has made is only in respect of the second loan. So my decision doesnt 
formally deal with what happened at the time the first loan was agreed.  But, the information that ELL 
has sent us about its dealings with Mrs E does cover what happened  in 2009. And from my review of 
that information  I am content that the findings I am making with respect to loan 2, would apply  equally 
to loan 1.
When Mrs E complained to ELL it didnt  think that it had done anything  wrong in agreeing to lend to 
her. But, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to reduce  the outstanding balance on Mrs Es loan so that 
she wouldnt  repay  more than she had originally agreed when  the loan was first taken. Mrs E didnt 
accept that offer and so brought her complaint to this Service.
Mrs Es complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks  ELL had 
done before giving the second loan to Mrs E had been proportionate. But he thought  the results of 
those checks should have led ELL to conclude  that it was unlikely that Mrs E would be able to repay  
the loan in a sustainable  manner.  So he didnt think that loan should have been given and he asked 
ELL to pay Mrs E some compensation.
ELL didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mrs Es complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave the second loan to Mrs E required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think  about whether repaying the credit  
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs E. In practice this meant that 
ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs E undue  difficulty or adverse  
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply  think  about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs E. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Ref: DRN91364043In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing to lend to Mrs E.
ELL gathered some information from Mrs E before it agreed the second loan. It asked her for details  
of her income, and her normal housing  costs. It checked her credit file to determine  how much  she 
was paying to other creditors. And it looked at a copy of Mrs Es bank statements  for the previous 
month.
Mrs E was entering into a significant  commitment  with ELL. She would need to make monthly  
repayments for a period of three years. So I think it is right that ELL would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Mrs Es financial circumstances before it 
agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks ELL did achieved that aim. I think  the checks ELL did 
were proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always  enough. A lender needs to react  appropriately to 
what those checks show. So Ive looked at the information ELL received  from its checks to see 
whether it was reasonable to agree to give this second loan to Mrs E. 
The checks ELL did, that I have  said above I consider to be proportionate,  dont show any clear 
evidence that Mrs E would be unlikely  to be able to repay this lending  in a sustainable manner. Her 
bank statements dont show any evidence of serious  financial problems such  as excessive use of an 
overdraft, multiple  other credit  repayments,  or regular  unpaid transactions. I think  it would have been 
reasonable for ELL to conclude that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mrs E.
I have also considered whether the information that ELL held from the time of the first loan would 
have shown that Mrs Es finances had significantly  deteriorated over the six months in between the 
loans. I dont  think  that it did. Mrs Es credit  card account remained at the maximum limit, but its 
position doesnt seem  to have been deteriorating. And her bank account overdrafts  were at a similar  
level to before. It appears that Mrs E had made all the contractual repayments on her first loan from 
ELL.
I can see that Mrs E has faced problems  repaying  this loan.  But that in itself doesnt suggest  that ELL 
shouldnt have given  it to her. Circumstances that might  be apparent at the time a lending decision is 
made, might alter over the course  of such a lengthy repayment period. But unless those changes 
were reasonably foreseeable I dont  think  that means a lender should expect the changes and factor  
them into any lending decision. It seems  Mrs Es problems arose  once she stopped work  on maternity 
leave. That doesnt  appear to be something she told ELL was going  to happen when  she applied for 
the loan. And I cant see how ELL could have discovered that from its checks.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Mrs E. But, in summary, I currently think the 
checks ELL did before  agreeing this loan were proportionate. And I dont currently think  the results  of 
those checks should have led to the loan request being  declined. So I dont  currently think  this 
complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN9136404