K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr S bought the regular premium policy alongside a loan in 2007.  He paid monthly for the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander shouldve taken  reasonable steps to make it clear to Mr S that the policy  was 
optional. Mr S says he was told he wouldnt get the loan if he didnt take the PPI. Ive looked 
at the copy of the loan agreement that Mr S signed to get the loan. It described the PPI as 
optional  Capital Care  credit insurance and asks applicants to tick separate boxes  if they 
wanted the policy and had received the policy summary. Applicants then had to sign to say 
they agreed to the policy and the monthly  cost. Both boxes have been ticked on Mr S form 
and hes signed  the box. There  is nothing to suggest  the policy was compulsory. 
So having considered everything Ive been given  in this case, I think  its more likely that 
Santander wouldve made Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it, 
even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Mr S says Santander recommended the policy. Santander says it didnt recommend the PPI 
to him. Based on what Ive seen of Santanders sales practices  on other  cases, I think its 
unlikely to have  made  a personal recommendation for the policy to Mr S.  So it didnt  have to 
check if it was suitable  for him. But it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for 
the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limitations 
to the PPI cover.
Mr S has told us he didnt have any sick pay benefits from his employer and no other means 
of making his repayments  such as savings. Upon a successful claim the policy  couldve 
paid out for up to at least 24 months if ill health stopped him from working or for up to 12 
months if he lost his job. So, considering all of the above and the potentially serious 
consequences of missing payments on a loan, I think Mr S couldve found the policy useful. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN93890192Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay   Mr 
S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he [doesnt/dont] pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  Consumer  (UK) Plc does  not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But Santander Consumer (UK) Plc does have to pay 
back to Mr S any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9389019