K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains BUX Financial Services Limited (trading as Ayondo)  incorrectly classified 
him as an elective professional client when he opened his Contracts  for Differences (CFD) 
trading account.  This in turn meant he was trading with higher  leverage, causing him more  
losses than he would  have otherwise  incurred.  
background 
In August  2018  Mr B completed  an application form with Ayondo  in order to open a CFD 
trading account.  In the application form he confirmed  the following information:
He had traded CFDs,  Spread Bets or Forex over ten times, with a cash  balance of 
€1,000 to €5,000  and risking less than 10%.
He had traded Options, Futures or Warrants over ten times, trading less than €1,000 
and risking less than 10%.
He had previously  attended training seminars or used a demo account, and had 
listed seminars as other qualification that assisted  him in the understanding  of 
margined transactions.
He confirmed he was self-employed  in real estate and had investments totalling more  
than €500,000 as well as more than €6,000  net monthly income. 
As a result of the answers he gave, Ayondo emailed him to explain that he could choose to 
either open a retail  client account, or a professional client account. The email asked him how 
he wanted to be categorised.  If he chose to be an elective professional client,  Ayondo  
explained that:
He would forego a series of protections. These were that Ayondo  would not need to 
warn him of any risks involved  in the investments that it offered and that he would 
only be able to sue for breaches of obligation.  
He would have  to agree to the Title Transfer Collateral Arrangements  and provided  
a link where this could be viewed. 
He would have  to agree to instruct Ayondo in writing as to his Professional Client 
categorisation, using  a specific  notification  form to which it provided a link. 
But Ayondo would still be obliged to write  to him confirming the services it would  
provide him, the charges applicable in relation to any services  it provided and to 
provide Mr B with best execution. 
If he chose to be categorised as a retail client, Ayondo explained that:
He would be afforded the maximum consumer protection under the regulatory 
system, although he may  not necessarily have  the same rights  as other retail clients 
if he would normally be treated as a professional client  or eligible counterparty  by 
another firm. 
Ayondo would  be obliged  to warn him of the nature  of any risks involved in the 
investments it offered.  
He would be able to sue Ayondo for damages  including the ability  to sue for 
breaches of obligation.  
Ayondo would  be obliged  to set out in writing the basis on which the services  it would 
provide him would be affected, the charges  applicable  in relation to the services it 
provided and to provide Mr B with best execution. 
Ref: DRN98499742Mr B chose to be categorised as a professional client, and duly accepted to notify Ayondo  of 
this in writing using the link it had provided. This letter broadly re-iterated the points above 
without further  specific  information and was signed in his name.  
Ayondo therefore opened Mr Bs account,  and allowed  him to trade. Between  August 2018  
and February 2019 Mr B deposited over €20,000  and traded  frequently  until he closed his 
account. 
On closing his account, Mr B complained.  Of relevance to the complaint brought to this 
service, he argued he was allowed to trade with too much  leverage, contrary  to applicable  
regulations, and as a consequence was looking for reimbursement of his losses. Ayondo  
looked into his complaint  but didnt agree it should be upheld. In short,  it identified the fact 
that Mr B had agreed to classify himself  as an elective Professional  Client  which meant that 
his account wasnt  restricted  by the amount of margin  required or the amount of leverage 
available on trades he wanted to open. It explained this this meant  that there were no 
regulatory breaches. Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2019. In it I said:
Its important to set out in full the relevant rule which  allowed Ayondo to consider Mr Bs 
client status:
COBS 3.5.3 says:
A firm may treat a client [] as an elective  professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) 
and, where applicable, (2):
(1)The firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable  of making  his own 
investment decisions  and understanding the risks involved (the qualitative test);
(2)In relation to MIFID or equivalent  third country  business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a)The client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant market 
at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b)The size of the clients financial instrument portfolio defined as including  cash  
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds  EUR  500,000;
(c)The client works or has worked  in the financial sector  for at least  one year in a 
professional position,  which requires knowledge of the transactions  or services 
envisaged; (the quantitative test;)and
(3)The following procedure is followed:
(a)The client must state in writing  to the firm that it wishes  to be treated as a 
professional client  either generally or in respect  of a particular service or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
(b)The firm must give the client a clear written  warning of the protections  and 
investor compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c)The client must state in writing,  in a separate document from the contract, that it 
is aware of the consequences of losing such protections
Ref: DRN98499743Before reaching my decision, I asked Ayondo to provide me with the precise questions which 
it asked Mr B when he opened his account.  The questions it asked required a simple yes or 
no answer. For example,  in the section Experience  with leveraged products, Ayondo asked:
have you previously attended courses or gained knowledge in the area of our products 
through other forms of education  (e.g. literature,  webinars, magazines)
Mr B answered yes to this question.  But later, another  question  asked:
Do you have any further relevant qualifications  that you consider would broaden your 
knowledge of our services and Mr B answered yes and then other  and specified  
seminars in the appropriate box. Its clear to me that the seminars Mr B said he attended 
were used to answer both questions  and likely inflated the score Ayondo  gave to his 
application. I dont  consider thats  Mr Bs fault  he wasnt  to know how his answers would 
affect the type of account available to him. He simply answered in the way he thought was 
most accurate. 
The trading  frequency/experience section of the application form in my view is equally 
unhelpful for the purposes of establishing whether Mr B ought to have  been  given the option  
of choosing a professional  client account.  In the question have you traded  any of the 
following products  yourself in the past he answered yes  and specified that he had traded 
over 10 times in the past per quarter, with a cash balance of between  EUR 1,000 and 5,000 
and risking less than 10%. 
This indicates that Mr B had previously  traded  CFDs  for the required frequency  (10 per 
quarter) but that the likely  size of the trades was small. In this regard,  Ive paid careful  
attention to what Ayondo has said about the way it estimated  Mr Bs trading volume. Ive not 
been provided with any details as to how this particular algorithm was used in Mr Bs 
context, or how it has generated the estimated €97,000 per quarter it said Mr B likely traded 
in the previous year. In my view, the simple question and answer  is insufficient  to be able to 
reasonably infer such a large level of trading. I say this because  while  significant size isnt 
defined, Im not persuaded that trading 10% of a €5,000 balance (and potentially  even  less 
than that, as the question says between EUR 1,000  and EUR 5,000) can reasonably be 
considered significant in this context. I agree that this indicates  reasonably  frequent trading. 
But I dont agree that this gives any reasonable assurance as to the degree  or volume  of 
trading  particularly  in the context of assessing whether a client ought to be given the 
opportunity to forego the protections afforded to a retail client.  
Ive noted Ayondos  comments  and welcome its references to The European Securities and 
Markets Authority (ESMA) questions and answers. 
ESMA has been  clear, in answering questions about elective professional  clients,  that firms 
ought to carry such  an assessment  in a reasonable and carefully considered  manner that is 
also consistent with their overarching duty to act in the best interests of their client.  This is 
because of the gravity  and extent of the protections that Ayondo was allowing Mr B to waive  
when opening  a professional client account.
And ESMA  has also said that firms should avoid relying solely  on self-certification by the 
client and should  consider  obtaining  further  evidence to support assertions that the client  
meets the identification criteria at that point  in time  and that even where a client meets  two 
of the requirements  set out in the quantitative  test,  a more thorough analysis of the clients 
expertise, experience and knowledge  may be required. 
Ref: DRN98499744In Mr Bs case, Im satisfied that the assessment Ayondo  carried  out did nothing  more than 
establish that CFD trading was appropriate for him and that Mr B had, at least, a basic  
knowledge of CFD trading. So I accept that Mr B clearly had some  real world knowledge of 
trading. But Ayondo couldnt  have  known to what degree, or how much of this knowledge Mr 
B actually  had. The rule required Ayondo to satisfy itself that Mr B had the requisite 
knowledge. 
Yet there were no substantive questions designed to elicit Mr Bs actual knowledge. 
And so when looking at the application as a whole, and considering the significant difference 
between Mr B opening a professional client account versus a retail  client  account,  I dont  
consider that Ayondo carried out the assessment in line with what  was required by the 
regulator.
I should add that establishing whether  this type of trading was appropriate  for Mr B (COBS  
10) is a different  test, and a different requirement.  They shouldnt  be conflated. COBS 10 is 
intended for retail  consumers, and is designed to ensure that they have sufficient knowledge  
of the risks involved in a particular type of trading.  COBS 3.5.3 required Ayondo  to carry out 
an adequate assessment. I think this clearly means  the onus was on Ayondo  to ensure that 
it actually carried out this assessment, as opposed  to relying on Mr B to tick a box or make 
assumptions about the degree of Mr Bs real world experience. And its important  to note 
the context of this assessment and the services envisaged. In this case, the service  
envisaged involved a very high risk type of trading   and by electing to become a 
professional client,  Mr B would be foregoing the protections that are in place  to limit the 
extent of losses a retail client may suffer. How could Ayondo  have known that Mr B 
understood that this is what he was giving up when it did nothing  to test his actual 
knowledge and experience?  
Given this context, Im satisfied that an assessment  which  would allow Mr B to forego the 
protections which are in place for retail  clients needed to be robust, detailed and clearly  
designed to establish a level of knowledge  and experience superior to that of an ordinary 
retail client.  Im not persuaded Ayondos  assessment met this standard.  
In addition and to make matters worse, Im satisfied  that the email  Ayondo sent to Mr B in 
which it set out the key features of both a professional client account and a retail client 
account wasnt sufficiently  detailed. Ayondo needed  to give Mr B a clear  written warning of 
the protections and investor compensation rights  the client  may lose. But the warning it gave 
didnt in fact explain  the key differences  between the two accounts and, importantly key 
protections which Mr B would be waiving if he chose to open a professional client  account 
and not a retail  client account. 
Broadly, by opening a retail client account  the following  features would limit Mr Bs risk when 
trading CFDs:
1. Leverage limits on the opening of a position by a retail client  from 30:1 to 2:1, which vary 
according to the volatility of the underlying:
30:1 for major currency  pairs;
20:1 for non-major currency pairs, gold and major indices;
10:1 for commodities other than gold and non-major equity indices;
5:1 for individual  equities and other reference  values;
2:1 for cryptocurrencies;
Ref: DRN984997452.    A margin close out rule on a per account basis. This will standardise  the percentage of 
margin (at 50% of minimum required  margin)  at which providers are required to close out 
one or more retail  clients open CFDs;
3.    Negative balance protection on a per account basis.  This will provide  an overall 
guaranteed limit on retail client losses;
4.    A restriction on the incentives offered to trade CFDs
By opening a professional client account,  none of these protections  would be in place. I 
consider the description of both accounts  by Ayondo was wholly  inadequate  and simply 
failed to give Mr B any idea of the key features of either account  and importantly, failed to 
make him aware of the additional and very significant risk to his capital if he chose to trade  
as a professional  client. Ayondos warning couldnt be a clear one if it failed to highlight any 
of the key protections which Mr B would benefit  from by opening a retail client  account and 
therefore give up by opening a professional client one. Further,  given the nature of the 
services envisaged   which ESMA makes  clear should underpin such the assessment of an 
elective professional client - Im not persuaded it couldve been  in Mr Bs overall interests  not 
to be told, specifically, that if he opened  a retail  client account he would,  for example, have 
negative balance protection  or an automatic closure of trades when reaching 50% margin.
 
Im satisfied that if Mr B had been  properly warned of the differences  between the two 
accounts, he wouldnt have signed up as a professional client.  Im persuaded this directly  
caused him to lose more  money than he would  otherwise have lost. 
For all these reasons, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint and award him 
compensation. 
putting things right
In assessing how I should put things right, Ive kept the following principles in mind:
My aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to the position  he wouldve been in but for 
the errors Ive identified  which  I consider  caused  Mr B a loss. 
In this case, Im satisfied that trading CFDs was appropriate for Mr B, because he 
had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand  the risks (COBS 10). 
But I dont consider he ought  to have been classified as a professional client. In any 
event, I dont consider  he was assessed adequately nor given a sufficiently clear 
warning about  the protections  he would  be giving up by opening a professional client  
account. 
However, I dont agree with Mr B that it would be fair to refund him all, or almost  all, 
of his losses. Im persuaded that he had some knowledge and experience such that 
the account was appropriate for him under COBS 10. Therefore a portion of the 
losses he incurred were  due to his trading decisions, which isnt something I can hold 
Ayondo responsible for.   
This means Mr B would still have opened  an account, and on balance  would 
probably have  opened  the same trades as he did. I acknowledge the points Mr B has 
made about the trades he placed based  on his accelerated losses. However, my aim 
is put Mr B as close possible to the position he wouldve  been  in had he not been 
categorised as an elective professional client. On balance, Im persuaded that the 
majority (if not all) of the trades Mr B placed  were based on his own trading decisions 
and strategies, which I dont think wouldve been materially different had he opened a 
retail client  account.   
Ref: DRN98499746However, he wouldve  been  exposed to lower  leverage and therefore likely lost less 
money during  the period in question. He would also have  benefited from a margin 
close out rule which  may have significantly limited the losses. 
So, in line with the above, Im persuaded the following  will put matters right for Mr B:
(A)Ayondo needs to rework the trades Mr B placed  as if he had placed  them  as a 
retail client.  It then needs to compare  the total Mr B wouldve  lost as a retail client 
with the total he lost as a professional client, and pay him that difference. 
(B)It then needs  to add 8% to that amount from the date Mr B stopped trading until 
the settlement  date.  
(C)I consider that being incorrectly classified as a professional client, as well as not 
being told the significant protections  he was giving up when  choosing  that 
account wouldve  caused Mr B significant  trouble and upset  especially given 
that Im persuaded he suffered greater losses as a professional client than he 
wouldve done as a retail one. To compensate for this, I consider Ayondo  ought 
to pay Mr B £500.  
(D)If Mr B hasnt  already  closed his account,  Ayondo ought to change  his account to 
a retail client one. 
Ive considered Mr Bs comments  about  the feasibility of carrying  out the calculation in (A). 
For the avoidance of doubt, this isnt a calculation this service would carry out, and I cant  
therefore say the extent  of the losses this means Ayondo  ought  to refund to Mr B. 
Im persuaded this approach in my view will more accurately  compensate Mr B for the losses  
he incurred as a result of Ayondos errors.  
However, Id encourage Ayondo to consider this carefully. If it finds  that such  a calculation  
isnt possible,  Id ask it to let me know before I issue my final decision. I note it hasnt 
commented on this either  in response  to the investigators original assessment, or her most 
recent email.  
In the circumstances, if (A) above isnt possible,  Im minded to take a more broad  brush  
approach to the compensation  I consider  would be fair and reasonable by awarding Mr B 
50% of the losses he suffered (I understand his total losses to be in the region of €24,000).  
Im currently  persuaded  this would be a fair and reasonable alternative to (A) on the basis 
that:
Im currently persuaded  that on the balance  of probabilities Mr B incurred greater 
losses as a result of being incorrectly  categorised by Ayondo  than he otherwise 
would have.
Mr B wouldve  benefited from existing retail client protections, which  wouldve 
included lower leverage on his trades as well as automatic closure  when reaching 
50% of his available margin.  
Im persuaded, however, that on the balance of probabilities Mr B would still have 
incurred losses on his account even as a retail client. 
The remaining  points (B), (C) and (D) are unaffected. 
Ayondo didnt  agree  with my provisional decision. In summary:
Ref: DRN98499747In relation to the Mr B answered questions about relevant trading an experience 
(where I reference two questions likely relating  to the same thing), his overall score 
even adjusting for that answer remained in the top 7% of applications  Ayondo 
received. 
That it wasnt necessary for it to demonstrate  that Mr B had the skill and experience 
comparable to that of a per se professional client. Instead, it said that Ayondo  
needed to gain comfort that the prospective client is capable of making his/her own 
investment decisions  and understanding the risks involved. It said that Mr B had 
attended seminars and utilised a demo account   and he also had significant real 
experience of having traded real money  on a live account.  It said that it could 
therefore be concluded that Mr B had the relevant  experience  and knowledge to 
understand the risks. It said there was no information provided to suggest  otherwise. 
It didnt agree with me that the requirements of COBS10 and COBS  3.5.3 were 
different. It said that if one looks at the wording  [], interpreting them amounts to the 
same requirement  that is, ensuring that the client can make  their own investment 
decisions and understand the risks. Ayondo said that when looking at this 
requirement, it is hard to argue  the fact that the two are materially different  if at all. 
It was a reasonable approach to take that a firm may be satisfied that a clients  
knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or 
service  and it said that, where  reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from 
experience. So Ayondo  said it was necessary to look conceptually at what  
constitutes sufficient  experience  and sufficient knowledge when making an 
assessment of whether a client can be deemed  as being capable  of understanding 
the risks and making their own investment decisions. Ayondo  said that a client may 
have sufficient knowledge to be deemed  experienced  enough  to understand the risks 
associated with the product in question (even though that client might not have 
formal applied experience. 
Similarly, it said that a client may not have formal knowledge in the way of structured 
learning / tuition, but may be deemed to have gained such  knowledge from formal 
applied experience. It said that in the case of Mr B, he had both. It said that caselaw  
supported its position that it was entitled to rely on Mr Bs assertions around his level 
of knowledge  and experience. 
It didnt agree with my interpretation that, based on the answers he gave when 
referring to past trades, Mr Bs likely past trades  were small in volume.  It said that the 
data which Mr B included  in his application showed that his collateral  utilisation (i.e. 
10% of cash balance) is more  akin to the behaviour  of someone who demonstrates  
control and responsibility (learned from experience  and knowledge of the mechanics 
of trading and risk). It said that the fact Mr B had chosen EUR 5,000  as a typical 
account balance  should have  no bearing  on the perception of experience/knowledge  
here. Ayondo said that its inclusion simply helps  to generate  an idea of past trade  
size in accordance  with regulatory requirements. 
It said that I shouldnt  make claims that only large (wealthy)  clients  can have access 
to services that are the reserve of professional clients. 
Ayondo said that philosophically,  embedded experience is acquired through 
repeated exposure to an event.  It said that it was questionable whether  fewer large 
exposure events (i.e. large trades risking a large amount of the clients  account 
balance which undoubtedly  result in adverse portfolio risk characteristics for the 
client) result  in better experience building than many/frequent repeated smaller 
events. 
Ayondo then explained in more detail the algorithm it used to calculate Mr Bs 
frequency of trading and which, in its view, showed that Mr B had traded sufficiently 
frequently in the past. 
Ref: DRN98499748Ayondo disagreed with me that no warning  was given to Mr B about the different 
leverage characteristics between retail and professional  clients. It said it provided  its 
client with a clear, written Risk Disclosure  document (which every  client  is required 
to have read, understood and accepted prior to opening an account). It said this 
document clearly  explains how a risk profile  varies  as leverage increases. 
And it also pointed to an email sent on 27 September 2018 which reminded him of 
the features  of the professional offering an upcoming migration to a new platform  for 
professional clients.  It said details of elevated leverages were included within this 
communication. Mr B opened this email  on 1 October 2018  when  his account 
balance was minus  EUR  6,352.  
Finally, Ayondo  said that Mr B wouldve benefited from negative balance protection,  
because Ayondo  offered this regardless of the status of his account since mid-2015. 
And it said that he would  also have benefited  from 50% margin  close out because it 
also offered this to all its clients from August 2018.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the findings  I made  in my provisional decision  they are set out 
above and I dont consider the information Ayondo has provided in response to that 
provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously said.  
However, I do intend to address in more  detail some of the issues  which  Ayondo  has raised 
in response to my provisional decision,  and which it considers ought to mean this complaint  
shouldnt be upheld. 
The first issue relates to the rules in COBS which  it considers  are materially the same  that 
is COBS 3.5.3 on Elective Professional Clients and COBS 10 on Appropriateness. 
In relation to COBS  3.5.3, there are specific criteria that need  to be met in terms of portfolio  
size and trading  history.  But one of the key tests  is for the firm to establish, based  on a set of 
criteria, that the client  is capable of making  his own investment decisions and understanding 
the risks involved (the qualitative test) . 
COBS 10 says, among  other things, that the firm must determine whether  the client has the 
necessary experience and knowledge  in order to understand  the risks involved in relation to 
the product or service  offered or demanded. 
Ayondo is suggesting that, for all intents  and purposes, these two rules are the same. 
The natural  conclusion, therefore,  is that by concluding that the account was appropriate for 
Mr B, it also concluded that he would  satisfy the qualitative test to be considered an elective 
professional client.  But Im not persuaded this would be fair and reasonable. And Im not 
satisfied these two rules are the same  in fact, Im satisfied its quite clear these two rules 
are different  and are designed  to achieve two very different outcomes. 
I say this bearing in mind  that the issue of clients being opted up into becoming elective 
professional clients  unfairly or inappropriately is something the regulator has indicated it is 
taking an active interest  in. I consider it unlikely it would take an interest in this if it didnt  
intend the rules  around elective professional client status to achieve a different purpose  than 
rules around  appropriateness. And I also consider that the regulator could have quite easily  
Ref: DRN98499749explicitly stated that the appropriateness assessment was a part of the qualitative 
assessment in COBS  3.5.3  but instead the two rules are separate.  
But as Ive said above, its the purpose and consequence of adhering  to these  two rules 
which I think clearly show  they are not the same. Carrying out an appropriateness 
assessment merely allows a firm to notify a retail consumer when it considers trading  CFDs  
is not appropriate for them. In situations where  the firm considers an account not 
appropriate, itll then be for that firm to consider whether to allow  a retail consumer to open 
the account or carry out the trade.  But allowing a consumer to elect  to be considered a 
professional client  involves that consumer  giving up the protections  which are afforded  to 
retail clients   this is clearly not what COBS 10 was designed to achieve. 
And finally, I acknowledge Ayondos  assertions that it was entitled to rely on the answers  Mr 
B gave  to the questions it asked. But I consider the guidance from ESMA is also clear  that 
this assessment should not merely be a tick box exercise. The assessment of clients  who 
wish to become elective professional clients needs to be robust  and done  in a a reasonable 
and carefully considered  manner that is also consistent with an investment  firms  
overarching duty to act in the best interest  of its clients. Im not persuaded that the answers 
Mr B gave, even if taken at face value, ought  to have given Ayondo  the reasonable 
assurance which was required. 
For these reasons, and those I gave in my provisional decision, I consider that the 
assessment Ayondo carried out when  Mr B opened  his account was not sufficiently robust 
so as to be able to give Ayondo the reasonable assurance it required to accept Mr Bs 
application to be an elective professional client. I dont consider it shouldve  offered him this 
option  and Im persuaded  Mr B would simply have opened an account as a retail client had 
Ayondo properly  assessed him. 
Ayondo has also explained  that Mr B was given a warning about  the different leverage  
characteristics between  retail and professional clients.  It said that every client was provided 
a written Risk Disclosure document which needed to be read and accepted  before opening 
an account. And it said this document explains how a risk profile  varies  as leverage 
increases. It also said that it sent an email in September 2018  in which  the features of its 
professional client  offering  were set out again. 
But, in my view, Ayondo didnt specifically give Mr B, once it identified him as someone it 
could offer an elective  professional client account to, a clear written  warning  of the 
protections and investor compensation rights Mr B would lose if he opted to open a 
professional client  account as opposed  to a retail  client account. This is what  was required in 
COBS 3.5.3 (3) (b). 
I dont consider a Risk Disclosure document, which wouldve been sent to all its clients, 
meets the above. And I dont consider an email sent some time after Mr B opened  the 
account and in any event about something  completely  different  (the email was about a 
migration of professional client  account  to a different platform)  is enough to discharge the 
obligation to provide Mr B with the clear written warning that COBS  required. 
I do acknowledge that, based on what Ayondo has said in response  to my provisional 
decision, it offers some  of those protections (such  as negative balance protection  and 50% 
margin closeout) to all of its clients. But crucially, its elective professional  clients  are able to 
trade with far more  leverage than its retail clients  and fundamentally, its this difference in 
Ref: DRN984997410leverage limits which exposed Mr B to significantly more  risk than wouldve been  the case  if 
he had opened  a retail client account.  
As Ive said in my provisional decision, I agree with Ayondo that Mr B didnt need to 
demonstrate skill and experience comparable to that of a per se professional client. But Im 
not persuaded that, without further information  about  the seminars he said he attended, 
reliance on that assertion  alone gave Ayondo the reasonable assurance which  was required 
that Mr B satisfied the qualitative test in COBS  3.5.3.  It may well have been enough to 
consider the account was appropriate  for him  but Im not satisfied it was enough  to 
conclude that he could be offered an elective professional client  account. In that regard, Im 
not persuaded where his application falls in relation to the overall  applications Ayondo  
received is relevant or should be material to its assessment. 
Finally, I think  its worth  emphasising that I didnt suggest in my provisional decision that only 
wealthy clients ought to have access to services  reserved to professional clients.  But its 
very clear that this is an important element of the assessment thats required. And its clear 
to me that, given  the significant protections which a retail client  gives  up when electing  to be 
treated as a professional client, their capacity to financially absorb the likely  significant 
losses is key. I say this not only bearing in mind the wording of the rules  themselves, but 
also the regulators high level principle around acting in a consumers best interests. 
So whilst Ive considered  Ayondos comments in response to my provisional decision very 
carefully, Im not persuaded to change my mind.  In short:
Im not persuaded by Ayondos argument  that COBS 3.5.3 and COBS  10 ought to be 
seen as the same test. Given  the significant protections  which  a consumer  gives up 
when electing  to be treated as a professional client following an assessment under 
COBS 3.5.3, Im satisfied this is, and was always intended to be, a different 
assessment than what is required under COBS 10. I consider this is also in line with 
FCA high level principle  6 (paying due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treating them fairly).  
And therefore, I dont  consider Ayondos assessment was in line with COBS 3.5.3. I 
consider Ayondo did nothing more than establish that CFD was appropriate for Mr B 
and that he had, at least, a basic knowledge of CFD trading. Given  these  
circumstances, Im not persuaded it ought  to have offered Mr B the option of 
becoming an elective  professional client.  
Im also not persuaded that the email it sent him which  explained the differences in 
the two accounts  was sufficiently detailed and in line with what was required in 
COBS. I note that Ayondo has made a business  decision to offer some  of the 
protections which retails  consumers enjoy to professional clients as well. But Mr B 
ought to have been told that as a retail client those  protections were guaranteed.  And 
more importantly, the difference in the leverage hed have access is a key difference  
between the two accounts. Im not persuaded Mr B wouldve known about this or 
understood it without  Ayondo  telling  him about  it. Im not persuaded risk disclosure 
documents or subsequent emails  were sufficient to discharge  Ayondos obligations in 
this regard.
Ref: DRN984997411putting things right
I note that Ayondo hasnt commented on my proposal for putting things right which I set out 
in my provisional decision.  This means  I need to decide which option is the fair and 
reasonable way of putting things right for Mr B  paying due regard to all the circumstances 
of the case as well as the need to provide Mr B with some certainty over the award that is to 
be made. Given these circumstances, Im therefore  satisfied that the second of the two 
options outlined  in my provisional decision is the fair and reasonable way of compensating 
Mr B. And so thats what I award. 
In assessing how I should put things right, Ive kept the following principles in mind:
My aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to the position  he wouldve been in but for 
the errors Ive identified  which  I consider  caused  Mr B a loss. 
In this case, Im satisfied that trading CFDs was appropriate for Mr B, because he 
had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand  the risks (COBS 10). 
But I dont consider he ought  to have been classified as a professional client. In any 
event, I dont consider  he was assessed adequately nor given a sufficiently clear 
warning about  the protections  he would  be giving up by opening a professional client  
account. 
However, I dont agree with Mr B that it would be fair to refund him all, or almost  all, 
of his losses. Im persuaded that he had some knowledge and experience such that 
the account was appropriate for him under COBS 10. Therefore a portion of the 
losses he incurred were  due to his trading decisions, which isnt something I can hold 
Ayondo responsible for.   
This means Mr B would still have opened  an account, and on balance  would 
probably have  opened  the same trades as he did. I acknowledge the points Mr B has 
made about the trades he placed based  on his accelerated losses. However, my aim 
is put Mr B as close possible to the position he wouldve  been  in had he not been 
categorised as an elective professional client. On balance, Im persuaded that the 
majority (if not all) of the trades Mr B placed  were based on his own trading decisions 
and strategies, which I dont think wouldve been materially different had he opened a 
retail client  account.   
However, he wouldve  been  exposed to lower  leverage and therefore likely lost less 
money during  the period in question. 
So, in line with the above, Im persuaded the following  will put matters right for Mr B:
Ayondo should calculate the overall  losses Mr B experienced when trading as an elective 
professional client   and it should  refund 50% of these to Mr B. It should add 8% per year 
simple interest to this figure from the date the account was closed to the date of settlement. 
I consider that being incorrectly classified as a professional client, as well as not being told 
the significant protections he was giving up when  choosing that account wouldve caused 
Mr B significant trouble  and upset  especially given  that Im persuaded he suffered greater 
losses as a professional  client  than he wouldve done as a retail one. To compensate for 
this, I consider Ayondo ought to pay Mr B £500. 
And if Mr B hasnt already closed his account, Ayondo  ought  to change his account to a 
retail client  one. 
Im persuaded this would  be fair and reasonable compensation  on the basis  that:
Ref: DRN984997412Im persuaded that on the balance  of probabilities Mr B incurred greater losses  as a 
result of being incorrectly categorised by Ayondo than he otherwise would have.
Mr B wouldve  benefited from existing retail client protections, which  wouldve 
included lower leverage on his trades and this wouldve likely reduced his losses. 
Im persuaded, however, that on the balance of probabilities Mr B would still have 
incurred losses on his account even as a retail client. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BUX Financial Services Limited  must  pay 
the compensation Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr B has accepted  
this final decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9849974