K822xcomplaint
Ms J complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited trading as Very applied  unfair  
interest charges  to her account  after giving  her incorrect information. She wants the charges 
refunded.
background 
Ms J told us she thought  payments she was making  to her Very account were going to her 
Buy Now Pay Later Account (BNPL). But she discovered theyd been allocated to her flexible 
credit account. She says she asked for the payments to be reallocated and was told this 
would be processed.  She later discovered the payments hadnt been reallocated and shed 
been charged interest.
Very told us Ms J placed orders on her BNPL account  the balance on which was due to be 
repaid by January 2018 if interest was to be avoided. It said Ms J hadnt  made  the payments 
so interest of £271.12 was applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  It 
said Ms J had been making payments  which had reduced her standard account balance. It 
accepted shed been misled into believing the payments would be reallocated to her BNPL  
accounts. But this wasnt possible. As a gesture of goodwill it offered to remove the interest  
charged on the BNPL account.
The investigator thought Verys offer was fair. She said Very had allocated  the payments  
made by Ms J in line with its account  terms and conditions. And if this was unpicked  it would  
result in Ms J paying more interest on her standard credit account.  Shed been charged less 
interest on this account as shed been  making higher payments than the minimum required. 
But - even allowing  for those payments made which were above the minimum required - this 
had totalled £79.26 less than had been required to clear the BNPL balance.  She thought 
interest and charges had been applied  correctly and she wouldnt be asking  Very to do 
anything else.
Ms J didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms J is upset  about whats happened and I understand that its easy to 
misunderstand some  administrative processes  when dealing  with different accounts.
The Very account  which Ms J opened  comprises of two separate balances. Theres  a 
standard account where a customer can - subject to a minimum payment - pay off different 
amounts each month. If a customer pays the full balance  - no interest is charged. But if they 
dont they get charged interest  on the outstanding balance.
Theres the BNPL account where  a customer can purchase items  on a deferred  interest  
basis. That is purchase price plus interest. This means if the customer  repays the purchase  
price in full by the set date they can avoid the interest payment. But if they dont they are 
required to pay the total sum.
Ref: DRN98789872Its one of the terms of the Very account  that a customer  who wishes  to pay towards the 
BNPL option must identify  the specific item against  which they wish the payment to be 
allocated. It seems Ms J did not do this and so the payments she was making  were  going to 
her standard account. When Ms J discovered  this she was told (correctly) no payments had 
been made towards the BNPL option. But unfortunately  she was also told (incorrectly) this 
could be unpicked and the payments could be reallocated. 
But if the payments  had been reallocated that would  have affected the balance on the 
standard account. And would have  meant  more interest would have been due on that. 
As theres  a minimum payment due on the standard account Very has calculated what 
amounts above  that minimum Ms J would have paid towards  BNPL. And it seems this would 
have resulted in a £79.26  shortfall. This would have meant the deferred  interest  would have 
been payable.  But It seems likely Ms J would have sought to pay this - if shed  been  fully 
aware of the situation. She clearly  knew interest  would be chargeable on the BNPL  account  
and she thought shed paid off the balance to avoid this. But as Very has agreed to remit this 
interest charge  then that seems  to me to be a fair and reasonable resolution. And it means 
Ms J has not been financially disadvantaged by the mistaken information she was given.
I can see Ms Js account shows other  interest and charges have been applied  to the account 
and an outstanding balance still remains. But as these appear  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account I dont  think I can reasonably ask Very to remit these. And Ms J 
accepts she stopped making  payments  - which she acknowledges  was not the correct  way 
of dealing with things.
In summary,  I think its clear Ms J made  an error in the way she allocated payments to her 
account. But she was given mistaken  information  when she sought to correct this. As Very 
has agreed to refund  the deferred interest which arose as a result of the misunderstanding  I 
think that aspect  of the complaint has been fairly  resolved.  Other interest and charges  have  
been applied  in line with the terms and conditions of the account and I shant ask Very to do 
anything else about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint but only in part. Shop Direct  
Finance Company Limited has already made an offer to remit the sum of £271. 12 - and any 
interest charged on that amount.   I think that is a fair settlement in all the circumstances.
So my decision is:
Shop Direct Finance  Group Limited should reduce the balance on Ms Js account by 
£271.12 together with any interest charged on this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9878987