K821x#15complaint
Ms W is unhappy  with what Amtrust  Europe  Limited did after she made a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance  policy. 
background
Last year Mrs W was dismissed by her employer and contacted Amtrust because she 
wanted to pursue an unfair dismissal claim. It referred the matter to panel solicitors and there 
was some delay in them dealing with the claim.  Amtrust  agreed  to pay £100 in recognition of 
this which  Mrs W accepted. However,  the panel  solicitors then advised the claim didnt have  
reasonable prospects of success so Amtrust wouldnt provide cover for the claim. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the advice  from the panel 
solicitors. But she thought Amtrust should  have advised Mrs W that if she disagreed with 
what the panel solicitors  said the next step would be to obtain  an opinion  from a barrister to 
resolve this difference of view. 
And once  that was made clear  to Mrs W (as part of our investigation) she did obtain  a 
barristers opinion which said the claim did have reasonable prospects. The investigator felt 
not making that clear to Mrs W at an earlier stage had caused  her some avoidable distress 
and inconvenience  and said Amtrust  should pay her £200. 
Amtrust didnt agree.  It said the policy terms explained the process where a consumer 
disagreed with a prospects assessment and it wasnt required to separately  tell policyholders 
about this on every case. It also said Mrs W had solicitors acting for her who could have told 
her this. 
 
Mrs W drew attention to the distress  shed been caused at a difficult  time when the limitation 
period for her claim was approaching. She thought the compensation payment should be 
higher. So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs W remains unhappy with what  the panel  solicitors did when initially  
handling her claim. And it doesnt  seem  to be in dispute there were delays here. However,  I 
think Amtrust  acted reasonably when Mrs W brought these matters to its attention. It looked 
into the concerns  she raised and offered to pay her £100 in recognition of the distress shed 
been caused which she accepted. I dont think it needs to do more in relation  to this issue. 
Turning to the prospects assessment I note that in common with other legal expenses 
policies Mrs Ws doesnt cover claims  which  dont have reasonable prospects of success. 
And it defines that as there  being more than a 50% chance of achieving the intended 
successful outcome. 
Ref: DRN94680542As Amtrust  arent legal experts,  in deciding whether a case  has reasonable prospects of 
success, we think  its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written and reasoned 
prospects assessment from a qualified lawyer. In this case  I think  the assessment meets  
those criteria and so I think Amtrust was entitled  to rely on it. So while I appreciate  it will 
have been distressing for Mrs W to learn  her claim wasnt going to be covered I dont think 
Amtrust has done anything wrong here.  
But I agree  with our investigator that Amtrust should  have  made  it clear  to Mrs W what the 
next steps were  if she disagreed with the prospects assessment from the solicitor. And our 
general approach  is that an insurer should make  clear  to a consumer when rejecting a claim  
that it will review  matters  again if the consumer provides more  evidence or a favourable  legal 
opinion, which in this case would have been  a barristers opinion. 
In this case the email  that was sent explaining the prospects assessment didnt make any 
reference to what  the next steps  would be if Mrs W disagreed with it. And while  I appreciate 
thats set out in the policy terms I dont think that would have made it clear to Mrs W what 
her options  were at the point the claim was declined. I know she had solicitors  acting for her 
but I dont think  Amtrust  can assume  theyd automatically have known  what  approach an 
insurer would take in this situation either.  In any case I dont think that removes  Amtrusts 
responsibility to treat policyholders fairly. 
And when  Mrs W did become aware of her options she sought a barristers  opinion. So I 
think its reasonable to conclude  shed  have done  that sooner if that option had been 
explained to her earlier. Thats caused delay  to the progression of her claim. And I think  that 
will have caused her some unnecessary distress and inconvenience  at what was, as Ive 
already acknowledged, a difficult  and stressful time for her. So I agree Amtrust should  pay 
£200 to recognise  the impact of that on her. 
I appreciate Mrs W thinks that figure  should be higher. But its the impact of this error by 
Amtrust I need to consider here. Some of the issues Mrs W has raised relate to her wider 
concerns about  the decision on the prospects assessment itself and what happened  at the 
outset of her claim. But, as Ive explained, I dont  think Amtrust did anything wrong in relying 
on the advice  it was given about  the prospects assessment. And the issues at the start of the 
claim have  already been addressed by the payment it previously agreed to make  (and which 
Mrs W accepted). 
Taking that into account I think  £200 is a fair amount to recognise the impact on Mrs W of 
whats happened in relation to this issue. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to pay Mrs W £200  
(thats in addition to the £100  she previously accepted).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9468054