K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about customer service he received from Santander UK Plc  he seeks 
compensation for the inconvenience and loss of earnings he suffered as a result  of long call 
waiting times. 
background
Last summer, Mr M was trying to call Santander  with a query about his balance  on his 
shareholder account. He was on hold waiting to speak to someone for over 45 minutes. 
When Mr M did get through,  he spoke to two different members of staff before being passed 
to another company  after which the line failed. 
Mr M called Santander back and waited another 39 minutes on hold before  speaking to 
another two different members  of staff. Mr Ms query was answered,  but he was unhappy 
with the time hed spent on the phone  and the service hed received so complained to 
Santander. 
Santander explained that there had been some confusion as to which  department Mr M 
needed to speak to  while elements of the shareholder accounts  are managed  by other 
companies, Mr Ms situation was that he needed  to speak  to Santander  and he was 
wrongly directed  elsewhere. They agreed their service has been unsatisfactory given the 
time taken  to get through  and their staff members attitude. To apologise, they credited  
Mr Ms account with £75.  
Mr M remained unhappy and felt the offer wasnt sufficient to recognise his loss of earnings. 
Santander paid Mr M a further £75 but this wasnt acceptable  either   Mr M returned the 
money by cheque and explained he wouldnt settle  for less than £500. He then raised his 
concerns with our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  but he thought Santander had done 
enough to put things  right. 
Mr M disagreed. He felt consideration ought to be given for his loss of earnings  especially 
as he obtains  work  on the phone, and if he misses a call, the work will be assigned to 
someone else. He didnt think the offer from Santander was sufficient to recognise this. He 
also felt Santander  ought to offer a call back service  to improve overall customer  service.
Ref: DRN98226182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator said, for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive listened to a call recording thats  available  and agree the service  provided fell short of 
what wed expect to see  given not only the wait times but also how Mr Ms query was 
handled. I agree that the relatively straightforward  query shouldnt have been  passed 
between departments before being  considered by someone who didnt seem interested  in 
helping. But in saying  that, I am also of the view that the £150  offer is reasonable to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused here.  
While I agree Mr M did wait for a long time to speak to someone,  only to be cut off and wait a 
long time again   it was his choice to continue with the calls at that point in time. Had Mr M 
have waited on hold a while but become increasingly concerned about the impact of the 
distraction from his work commitments, he could have ended  the call himself and tried calling 
back at a time more  convenient for him. Hes asked to be compensated with £500 in 
recognition of lost work, but I dont think itd be fair to ask Santander to pay this as it was 
Mr Ms choice  to call Santander during his working hours. 
Mr M has said he feels Santander  ought  to offer a call back service   but it isnt for me to tell 
them how to run their business   thats  simply not something our service will interfere with. 
Santander have  explained they do what they can to monitor  and anticipate  call volumes, but 
I do recognise this is far from an exact  science and there will be times where people  wait 
longer than theyd  like. Clearly Mr M experienced one of these times, but I do think  hes been 
fairly compensated for the inconvenience  and see that feedback  has been given.
I see Mr M returned  the £150 compensation as he wished to pursue his complaint  but he 
could have kept this sum and still asked our service for help. Nevertheless, I think  the offer 
was reasonable  so should Mr M now wish to accept it, I suggest  he contacts Santander 
directly to organise its return to his account.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint as I 
think Santander UK Plc have already done enough  to put things right and that if Mr M now 
wishes to accept the £150 compensation he should  contact Santander to arrange this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9822618