K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mr T, represented by Ms L, complain about a life insurance  recommendation made  
by St. Jamess  Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).
background
Mr L and Mr T have  a business that was formed as a limited  liability partnership (LLP). In 
2016 SJP sold the business two life policies, with the intention of putting a shareholder 
agreement in place.  
It was subsequently discovered that this type of arrangement wasnt appropriate for an LLP. 
So, in late 2017  the policies were  converted to personal life policies with the benefit to be left 
to Mr L and Mr Ts partners.
A complaint was made  to SJP, which accepted a mistake had been made. It looked at 
whether Mr L and Mr T had been  financially disadvantaged, but found that the cost of cover  
was the same with both arrangements.  SJP did, however, offer Mr L and Mr T £250 each for 
the trouble and upset caused by the matter.
This wasnt accepted  and the complaint was referred to this service. Our adjudicator felt the 
offer was fair but Ms L did not agree. She proposed that SJP meets  the business costs  of 
dealing with the matter  some £5,000  and also questioned whether the new policies are 
actually like-for-like in terms  of benefits. 
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion,  the matters  been referred to me 
to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As its accepted that a mistake  was made   and its been corrected  Im left only with the 
matter of compensation to decide.  
As noted,  SJP has offered  a total of £500 to Mr L and Mr T. I think  this is fair in the 
circumstances and representative of the level of impact the mistake is likely to have had on 
them. I understand the concern that there may have been problems in the event of a claim 
prior to the mistake being corrected. But luckily this didnt happen.  And, in any event, the 
insurer has indicated that a claim would have been  paid as the insurable event and level of 
cover was the same. Even if there  had been  a problem, I think  a subsequent complaint 
wouldve brought the mistake to light and its likely matters wouldve been resolved at that 
point. 
In respect of costs involved in bringing  the complaint, as its free to use this service  we dont 
generally look to compensate for these. Wed  only do so where  something exceptional and 
unavoidable had been incurred  such  as professional costs  to carry out a necessary task 
beyond the abilities of the person  bringing  the complaint. I dont think thats  the case here.  
There will always be a certain level of time commitment involved in bringing a complaint. But 
Ive not seen that there was anything  particularly unusual  here.  
Ref: DRN90972332Finally, I note the point  about the potential  benefits  of the original  recommendation and how 
these are not available with the new arrangement  the tax benefits associated  with premium 
payment, etc. But, as has been acknowledged,  the original recommendation was a mistake, 
unsuitable for the circumstances.  So any benefits associated with it wouldnt have been 
available to Mr L and Mr T if theyd been correctly advised. 
And Im satisfied that if the correct recommendation, which is in place now,  had been 
suggested at the outset  it wouldve been accepted, particularly  given  it was at the same cost.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as I consider the 
offer already  made  by St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management Plc to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9097233