K821x#15Complaint
Miss L has complained  that Skipton Building  Society allowed her ex partner to close  her 
ISA account and transfer the funds to his account.
Background
Miss L had a Skipton online lifetime ISA account.  By April 2018, the balance stood at 
£12,667.15.
The following  changes were made to Miss Ls account in June and July 2018:
On 3 June 2018,  Skipton received an online request to change her postal 
address to her parents address, while they were on holiday. However, Skipton 
didnt update its records at the time.
On 20 June 2018, Skipton received an instruction via its secure online 
messaging service to close the ISA account and transfer the funds to another  
account, which was not in her name.
Skipton sent her a letter on 23 June 2018, requesting confirmation of the 
instruction. It asked her to sign and return an acceptance form. It sent the letter 
to her existing address,  where  she was still living. It also sent her an email to the 
email address, which it held on file.  
On 3 July 2018, Miss Ls telephone number, email address and house address 
were changed  online.
Skipton received an electronic copy of the acceptance form on 4 July 2018.  It 
bore an electronic  signature.
On 4 July, Skipton  closed the ISA account  and transferred  the funds to a different 
account.
Skipton later sent a letter to Miss Ls parents address, which  referred to a complaint it 
had received about the amount that had been transferred. It advised it had made an 
error and offered to pay £750  in compensation. 
The closure of the account only came to light when  Miss Ls parents  returned from their 
holiday and saw the compensation letter. They alerted Miss L who contacted Skipton 
immediately. She told Skipton that she hadnt  authorised the closure or transfer. She 
believed her ex-partner  had closed her account because  the funds had gone into his 
account. She said he must have logged into her account, changed  her address and 
intercepted her emails  and post. 
Miss L asked Skipton  to refund the funds  in the ISA account.
Skipton decided not to refund Miss L. It said it was obvious from what shed said that her 
ex partner had access to both her email address and login  details. It said Miss L must 
have provided  him with her login details when  she had transferred money to his account 
in the past. It said it was her responsibility  to keep her details private  and confidential but 
she hadnt. For this reason,  it held her liable for the loss.
Miss L wasnt  happy with this outcome  so she brought her complaint  to this service.
Ref: DRN92842412An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it. He didnt think  it was 
likely that Miss L would have made the changes  to her account  details. And so he 
concluded that she didnt authorise the closure  of the account or the transfer of the funds 
to her ex partner.
The investigator also dismissed any suggestion  that Miss L had been grossly  negligent 
by not keeping her account details safe.  He said sending money to the ex partners 
account is not proof that she disclosed her log in details to him. The investigator 
concluded there was no evidence of gross negligence.
He recommended that Skipton refund Miss L with interest and pay compensation  of 
£150.
Skipton disagreed with the investigators view and so this case has come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
The investigator wrote two views that set out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Miss L and Skipton  have  read the 
investigators views, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  
of my decision. However, I can assure  both that Ive read the file, including  their 
comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions 
as those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short,  Skipton is required to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the 
PSRs 2017). Skipton has accepted that Miss L didnt authorise  the transfer. In its email 
to this service on 22 October 2019, it said:
we are now aware  that Miss [L] had not consented to the transaction, the 
complaint decision  was due to her providing  her ex-partner with  her personal 
email and LISA details allowing him access to her funds. 
On the basis of this evidence,  I am satisfied that the transfer to the ex partners account  
was unauthorised.
Did Miss L fail with gross  negligence to comply with the obligations set out in Regulation 
72 of the PSRs 2017?
Ref: DRN92842413As the investigator  explained, if an account  holder  fails with gross negligence to comply  
with the terms and conditions of their account,  then theyll become liable for 
unauthorised payments  instead of the bank. And if a bank is alleging  that an account 
holder has failed in this way, they must provide supporting evidence.
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  has to be assessed on a case by 
case basis taking into account  all the circumstances. The full legal test is set out in the 
investigators first view. Simply, the customer needs  to have shown  a serious disregard 
of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Its Skiptons case that Miss L didnt comply  with the terms and conditions of her account 
because, it says, she gave her ex partner the log in details  for her online ISA account.  It 
says this was gross  negligence. It relies on the following pieces of evidence:
She had made payments from her account to her ex partners account.
There were  several layers of security  when accessing an online account.  These  
are login ID; personal information;  security questions and password.
She must have  provided him with these details or else how would  he know them.
She admitted  she had provided  him with access to her email  address, where  he 
found its email confirmation of her login ID.
He couldnt  have changed  the correspondence  address  without the use of her 
grid card.  This is issued to customers when  an online account  is opened  and it 
has to be registered before  use. It provides an additional layer of security when a 
customer makes  changes to their personal details.  
Its clear the ex-partner  knew  Miss Ls security  details to get access  to her online 
account and so I need to ask how that happened.  
I dont believe he got access  to the account simply through  any payments which Miss L 
made to him. I think these  are two are separate actions.
Skipton concedes he might have  got her account  log in details from an email, which it 
had sent her when  she opened the account. It says she admitted giving him her email  
log in details. However, Ive listened to Miss Ls phone calls to Skipton. She said:
He changed the address to my parents address  knowing  I wouldnt get the 
lettersI think hes been on my email account and done it through  there. I 
cant remember if I gave him log in details or left them around.  I cant 
remember not to my knowledge have I willingly given it to him.
She later went on to say that her ex partner was particularly adept  at working with IT 
systems.
At best, Miss L cant remember. I think she was being honest when she spoke to the 
bank. But even if she left her login details around  at home, I cant  see how that is a 
serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk. It might be careless  but not gross 
negligence. And most reasonable people would have log in details at home. I dont think  
its an obvious risk that someone in your household would steal  that information. And as 
Ref: DRN92842414the investigator said, its more likely her ex partner knew the answers to the security 
questions because of his relationship with her and not because  she told him.
Besides, it does appear more likely that the ex-partner got access  to the account through  
Miss Ls emails. Again, theres  no evidence  that she told him the log in details for her 
email account. 
As for the grid card, this was registered in August 2019, which  means it wasnt  used to 
change the details on her account anyway.
In summary,  I dont consider that Skipton  has shown, with supporting evidence, that 
Miss L was grossly negligent.  I consider  that under the PSRs  2017, Skipton must refund 
the loss and I think its fair and reasonable that it should do so.
Redress
According to the ISA statement, both Miss L and her ex partner made payments into the 
account. Miss L told us she was the main contributor  to the account but she can only 
prove that she contributed £6,267.15 so she is seeking a refund of this amount only.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint. Im asking Skipton Building  
Society to:
refund  the amount of £6,267.15 
pay interest that would have  accrued  on this amount, had it remained in the ISA 
account
pay any HMRC  bonus  that Miss L wouldve received on this amount
£150 for the trouble  and upset caused  to Miss L in having to bring this complaint 
to this service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9284241