K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about the advice BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd (BlackStar)  
gave her in 2014  to transfer pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The 
transfer was to allow her to invest in an overseas property bond. Mrs C feels the advice was 
unsuitable, with the investment now in administration.
background
Mrs C was introduced to BlackStar  by a representative of an unregulated firm. She was 
referred for advice about transferring pensions she held, so that she could  invest into an 
unregulated overseas property bond,  Colonial Capital.
The unregulated firm had completed a fact-find  and a risk questionnaire with Mrs C. These  
were forwarded to BlackStar.  Mrs C was noted as being in her early  fifties. She was divorced 
with two grown up children. She was in employment with a salary of £13,000 and she also 
had dividend  income of around  £20,000.  This was derived from a share she held in a private 
company, she was the company secretary.  Mrs C had a mortgage  but was in the process of 
selling the former matrimonial home  which would  release funds to clear the mortgage. Her 
intention was to retire at 75 but have access to cash from her pensions at 55.
A risk questionnaire had been  completed  which suggested that Mrs C was a high risk 
investor.
Mrs C held three pension  plans with a total value of £29,000. On the advice of BlackStar, 
these were all transferred into the SIPP. Around  £20,000 was invested with Colonial Capital 
and the balance invested in a number of more  mainstream collective funds.
The cost of the transfers, setting up the SIPP and the advice totalled just over £2,000.
The Colonial  Capital bond aimed  to return a coupon of 12 per cent per year. The bond went  
into administration in 2017 and Mrs C was told that there was unlikely to be any return  to 
investors.
Mrs C complained to BlackStar  through her representative but it didnt  uphold  the complaint. 
So the complaint was referred to this service. An adjudicator considered  the complaint and 
decided that it should be upheld. The adjudicator said, in summary:
Although Mrs C was introduced to BlackStar  by a third-party, this did not set aside its 
duty to provide suitable advice.
She was entitled  to expect sound independent  advice despite  any apparent attraction 
of the investment and its proposed returns.
The Colonial Capital bond was unregulated  and invested overseas.  It was high risk. 
There were warnings  about risk, but these did not replace the need  for, and duty to 
give, suitable advice.
Unregulated investments like this are rarely suitable for all but the more  sophisticated  
investor and normally  represent only a small proportion  of much larger portfolios. Mrs 
C does not fall into this category.
It would  have been clear to the adviser that this was Mrs Cs entire pension provision. 
It was modest and there  was nothing to suggest that she had any experience  of high 
risk investments before and nothing to suggest she had capacity for loss.
Ref: DRN95616062BlackStar didnt agree.  It said, in summary:
Mrs C had been introduced by a third-party and had already entered  into a binding 
agreement to purchase the bond. So if she had not transferred the pensions,  she 
would have had to use other  funds to complete the purchase.
The fact-find was verified.
The Colonial Capital bond had been identified and investment in it was one of many  
suitable outcomes  for Mrs C.
Due diligence had been completed, and it could not ignore the fact that Mrs C 
intended to invest.
Mrs Cs responses  on the risk questionnaire were consistent  with a high risk investor. 
She was also a company secretary in a private limited company.
The investment  was suitable.  It had met its regulatory obligations.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.  He noted that applications  for the bond  were 
completed after BlackStar had advised.  As no agreement has been reached,  the case has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised what the parties have said in this complaint but I have read and considered 
everything. I dont propose to address each and every point that has been made. Ultimately  
my role is to determine if Mrs C received advice that was suitable  for her and in her best 
interest. These are the main issues Ive focussed on.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im not satisfied that the advice  to transfer her pension was suitable  for Mrs C 
or in her best interest. I uphold this complaint.
Mrs C was referred to BlackStar by a third party. BlackStar accepted her as a retail client, 
and wrote to her with its recommendations.  It recommended the transfer  from her existing 
pension plans into the SIPP. Although BlackStar  may not have introduced her to the 
investments, it is responsible for the advice given. 
Mrs C wanted to consider  her retirement  provision  in 2014. She held three personal 
pensions valued  at around  £29,000. Its not apparent  that she had any other private  pension  
benefits. 
She was assessed  as being a high risk investor based on her answers to a risk 
questionnaire. But it should be noted  that she had little, if any, investment experience other  
than her pensions  which  were all held in general funds with mainstream providers. There  is 
no evidence that she had made  high risk investments before.
BlackStar have referred to her role as a company secretary. But there is nothing  to suggest 
this role gave her any additional insight into investments or investment risk.
Im not satisfied that Mrs C was truly a high risk investor or should  have  been  treated as one. 
Ref: DRN95616063BlackStar advised Mrs C to transfer  her personal  pension  plan into a SIPP, and invest  
around 70 per cent of the transfer  value into the Colonial Capital bond. This was a high risk 
unregulated investment. Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track record.  It invested 
in distressed residential property (which had been foreclosed) in the USA.  I understand that 
Colonial Capital Group went into administration in March 2017.
It was a very specialised  and non-mainstream investment. It was based overseas and there 
was no ready market for the investment and so it was potentially illiquid. So Mrs C may well 
have experienced difficulty  in redeeming  it (if it hadnt gone  into liquidation) which  could have 
impacted on her pension  planning. This is particularly so when  she had expressed desire to 
take some  benefits  at 55 which  was less than three years away.
Overall, I dont  think this investment was suitable for Mrs C. It presented  a higher degree of 
risk than she ought to have been advised  to take.  Placing  70 per cent of the pension  funds  
into one asset  also meant  there was a lack of diversification which  only added to the risk. 
Im not satisfied that the advice to transfer was suitable for Mrs C or in her best interest. I 
think it is most likely  that if suitable advice  had been given the transfer  would not have taken 
place. Mrs C was paying for advice  and most  consumers accept the professional  (expert)  
advice they are given.  I dont think its plausible that she would have gone ahead with this 
transfer and investment if she had been  advised  against it, as she ought to have been.
Ive considered whether Mrs C was already committed to buying the bonds before BlackStar 
advised. I dont  think that she was. Two applications were  completed after it had advised  her 
and so I dont  think it can be said that she was fully committed  to the purchase before she 
received the confirmatory advice from BlackStar.
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to uphold  this 
complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Cs circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
BlackStar should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mrs Cs pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
Ref: DRN95616064allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Cs pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mrs C £300 for the trouble and upset  shes been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs C how much has been  taken off. BlackStar should give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. BlackStar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  any of the investments,  the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. BlackStar may require that Mrs C provides 
an undertaking to pay BlackStar any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
Ref: DRN95616065drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. BlackStar will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BlackStar totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs Cs circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mrs C in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN95616066
Ref: DRN9561606