K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that American  Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL) have rejected a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
background
Mr L bought three train tickets, using his AESEL  credit card: each ticket cost £96.75.  But  
he later realised that a mistake had been  made and the tickets were for travel  on the date of 
purchase rather than the date he and his family were  travelling. 
He contacted the supplier but they said the tickets  were non refundable.
So Mr L contacted  AESEL. He said section 75 allowed  him to make a like claim against the 
provider of credit as he would against  the merchant.
AESEL rejected Mr Ls claim for two reasons. They explained that each individual ticket was 
for less than £100  and that section  75 only covered  purchases between £100 and £30,000 
so they could not consider  the claim.  They also said there needed to be a breach of contract  
or misrepresentation and that they could not see this was the case.
So Mr L referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
agreed with AESEL and for the same  reasons. So Mr L asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. He said the tickets were  purchased  in a single transaction  and to claim they 
were each separate transactions was an attempt to avoid legal action. He said if he 
purchased a pair of shoes he would not expect it to be considered two transactions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L but I agree with the investigators view.  Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr L made a claim through  them  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
Ref: DRN97509862against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
(d-c-s) relationship. Mr L has a relationship with AESEL but the other people  travelling, and 
named on the travel  tickets, do not. For their tickets the d-c-s chain is broken.
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant. AESEL would have little leverage if it pursued  the 
merchant for ticket costs  of those with whom  it didnt have a relationship.
Mr L may have a claim as he has a valid relationship  with the debtor and the creditor. But the 
price of his ticket is less than £100 and claims under section 75 must be for at least this sum.  
So I dont  think AESEL  were unreasonable when rejecting his claim.
AESEL also rejected his claim because  they said the contract hadnt been breached or 
misrepresented. I can see that the tickets were non refundable  so even if Im wrong  about  
the lack of a d-c-s  relationship or the financial threshold, I dont think  AESEL were 
unreasonable as theres insufficient evidence that the contract  was breached  or 
misrepresented to Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9750986