K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G were sold the PPI around  the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they were told they had to agree to the PPI otherwise they wouldnt get 
the mortgage. But theyve also said that they werent  aware  that they had the PPI. These  two 
statements are slightly at odds with each other. It therefore seems  to me that Mr and Mrs G 
probably dont  have a clear  recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place.
Looking at the available paperwork, I can see Mr and Mrs G completed  the mortgage  
application form on 17 July 2002.  The following day RBS sent them  a letter,  enclosing  an 
illustration for PPI that covered accident,  sickness and unemployment. It said that cover 
could also be tailored to meet particular needs. So its clear from this that Mr and Mrs G 
didnt agree to the PPI on the day that they filled in the mortgage  application.
The cover was tailored  further as it only covered Mr G, and only for unemployment. The 
reason for this is noted  on a document  as being because Has sick and accident in place 
through work. So there was clearly  some further  discussion about the policy  and how it 
would meet the couples needs.
Mr G has pointed out that the mortgage offer contains the wording: Before we release funds 
to your legal  adviser,  you must provide us with a completed Mortgage  Payment Insurance  
application form. Mr G sees this as evidence that the PPI was a mandatory part of the 
mortgage. I agree that, in isolation,  the wording could be construed  in that way. But the 
beginning of the same  paragraph says that; Mr G has chosen  to take out mortgage  payment 
insurance Taken together with all the other  evidence, I am unable to conclude that the 
PPI was presented  as a condition of the mortgage. On balance,  I think this sentence 
probably means that, having chosen to have PPI, the relevant paperwork needs therefore to 
be in place for administrative purposes prior to the mortgage going live.
Based on the available evidence, I think that YBS presented the policy as optional.  It seems 
to me that Mr and Mrs G probably  decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even  if 
they no longer  remember doing so.
Ref: DRN96112212Mr and Mrs G say they were advised to take out the policy whereas YBS says that it didnt 
provide advice. I dont  need to make a finding  on this as it doesnt make a difference to my 
decision. If YBS did provide advice that means  that, in recommending the policy to 
Mr and Mrs G, it needed  to ensure  that it met their needs. And from what I know of 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time,  the policy was suitable.
Mrs G was a housewife,  so it is reasonable that the policy was set up just to cover Mr G. 
Mr G has told us that he had a number of other insurance policies, but these provided health  
related cover  and life cover.  As the PPI covered Mr G for unemployment only, it did not 
replicate his existing  cover. There was a question on the application form about what  Mr G 
would do if he lost his job and he has replied DHSS.
So I think that Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the cover and could  have benefitted from it. A 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting  on it can 
be serious, so it wouldnt  be surprising if they had an interest in protecting  their repayments.
Its possible that YBS didnt provide  as much information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I think Mr and Mrs G had an interest in the cover and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds. Which  means  
that YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But YBS has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because YBS didnt tell them, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
My  decision  is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Yorkshire  Building  Society  does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  It has offered to do this and 
so I do not award  any further compensation. Yorkshire Building Society should arrange  to 
make this payment  now if it has not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Carole Clark
Ref: DRN96112213ombudsman
Ref: DRN9611221