K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin) unfairly declined to honour  an offer it made  
when applying for a credit  card.
background
In July 2018 Ms R applied  for a Virgin credit  card. Ms R says she was offered 33,000 air 
miles as a sign up bonus when taking out a particular credit card account  that carried a £160  
annual fee.
Ms R said she later found she was only credited 15,000 air miles and complained  to Virgin. 
She said she would never  have  applied for an account that carried an annual  fee had it not 
been for the higher 33,000 air mile promotion.  She asked for either the additional  miles to be 
credited to her account or a refund of the account fee.
Virgin said it did have a promotion around  this time that offered 33,000  air miles but this was 
only sent to a select group of customers.  It said it checked its records  and this wasnt  offered 
to Ms R. So it said it wouldnt  provide the extra miles or refund the card fee. But it said it 
would reconsider this if Ms R could provide any evidence to support it had offered this to her. 
Ms R brought her complaint to service and provided  a leaflet quoting the 33,000 air mile 
promotion. She said shed previously  thrown away the related paperwork showing the offer 
was sent to her personally but felt this showed the offer was made to her.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said shed seen evidence that the offer 
wasnt sent to Ms R, and that it was possible shed received  the promotional  offer from 
elsewhere. She looked at screenshots that Virgin  said Ms R wouldve seen at the time, and 
said this suggested  the offer was for 15,000 air miles  only.
Overall, the investigator  said she felt it was more likely Virgin  hadnt made the offer to Ms R 
so didnt recommend  it do anything further.
Ms R disagreed, and said it was possible Virgins  records  might  show the promotion was 
sent to someone  else (Mr R) who she said held an account in joint names with her 
previously. Because she disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me for to make an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ms R said she received a copy of this promotional offer and it was sent to her directly.  But 
unfortunately shes been unable to provide a copy of the letter  she said she received. So Ive 
looked at the information  that is available.
Virgin has told us it has checked  its records and this particular promotional  offer wasnt 
made to Ms R. Ive reviewed the online application  screenshots it says she wouldve seen, 
and these quote the lower 15,000 air mile offer.
Ref: DRN90256482Ive also reviewed Ms Rs credit card statements  and account terms and conditions.  And 
none of these documents make reference  to the promotion she has mentioned. This 
suggests to me, on balance, its more likely  that Virgin didnt  offer this higher 33,000 air mile 
promotion to Ms R.
I agree  its possible an offer may have  been  sent to Mr R if he was a previous  Virgin  
customer as Ms R says. But in my decision Ive considered the application  Ms R made. And 
Im not persuaded Virgin did make this offer directly  to her. So Im satisfied Virgin hasnt 
made a mistake and Im not asking  it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9025648