K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr D between November 
2017 and August 2018. Mr Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Max Repayment
1 02/11/2017 16/11/2017 6 £500.00 £136.67
2 25/02/2018 19/07/2018 6 £300.00 £100.00
3 16/03/2018 12/04/2018 6 £300.00 £189.65
4 01/05/2018 19/07/2018 6 £350.00 £215.49
5 28/07/2018 01/11/2018 6 £100.00 £33.35
6 04/08/2018 10/01/2019 6 £500.00 £196.05
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ds complaint and thought  loan 6 shouldnt  have been 
given because the overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing indicated he was reliant on these 
loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. Sunny  disagreed  and said that its 
checks showed Mr D had enough disposable income to make the repayments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN92996782the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done  so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint  about loans 1 to 5. Mr D hasnt provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because  they no longer appear  to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr D, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr D was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Whilst Ive noted Sunnys comments about  Mr D having enough 
disposable income to afford the repayments,  Mr D had taken out six loans in nine 
months. And often  had more than one loan already  running  with Sunny when another 
loan was taken  out. So, it should  have realised it was more likely than not Mr D was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN92996783Mr Ds first loan was for £500 and loan 6 was for the same amount. At this point  
Sunny ought to have known that it was unlikely Mr D was borrowing  to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. As mentioned  
above, loan 6 was taken out nine months after Mr Ds first. And it was for the same 
amount. Mr D had paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect; service a debt to Sunny 
over an extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period.
The number of loans  and the length  of time over which Mr D borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ds ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about  loan 6 is adverse. So, all entries about this loan 
should be removed  from Mr Ds credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ref: DRN92996784Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9299678