K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) 
irresponsibly lent to him. He says the lending was unaffordable taking his income and 
expenditure into account and MoneyBoat  should  have seen that his financial history  meant  
he wasnt creditworthy. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 20 February  2020. A copy of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. I thought that MoneyBoat had carried out sufficient 
checks before lending to Mr D and it wasnt unreasonable in its decision to lend to Mr D.
Neither party provided me with anything further to consider in response to my provisional  
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything more  to consider, I see no reason to alter my 
provisional decision and confirm those findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint  about  Evergreen Finance London 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading  as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat)  
irresponsibly lent to him. He says the lending was unaffordable taking  his income and expenditure into 
account and MoneyBoat should have seen that his financial history meant he wasnt creditworthy. 
Ref: DRN93808062background
This complaint is about  one instalment loan MoneyBoat.co.uk provided to Mr D in March  2016.  The 
amount borrowed was £200  and was to be repaid  in two monthly instalments of £127 per month.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint as they thought that MoneyBoat should  have seen that Mr D 
had previously defaulted  on other short-term loans. And as they remained outstanding MoneyBoat 
shouldnt have provided Mr D with any further  lending.  
MoneyBoat disagreed with the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains  unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as ombudsman.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general  approach to complaints about  
short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr D could repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  consider several  different things,  such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given  loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal  that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Having done  so, Ive provisionally  decided  not to uphold  
the complaint. Ill explain  why. 
MoneyBoat has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  the borrowing. It 
asked Mr D about his employment status.  He confirmed  he was employed and had a monthly  
income of £1,500 and total outgoings of £300 (which MoneyBoat increased for its own credit 
checks to £800 in line with national average expenditure), leaving him with a disposable income of 
£700. And using these figures  for its income  and expenditure checks, MoneyBoat deemed the 
borrowing of £200 to be affordable to Mr D. 
MoneyBoat also carried out a search of Mr Ds credit file. It can be seen from this that Mr D had 
historically defaulted  on three short-term  lending  accounts in 2013.  And it was for this reason that 
the adjudicator  concluded  that MoneyBoat shouldnt  have lent to Mr D.
Ref: DRN93808063But I dont think this is enough  of a reason to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. I say this because Mr D 
was borrowing three years after he had defaulted on the other borrowing repayments.  There  
wasnt any record  that he was making  any payments towards them.  So, the lending with 
MoneyBoat was affordable for Mr D and it wasnt unfair of MoneyBoat to have lent to him. 
And given  this was the first loan Mr D had taken with MoneyBoat I think the checks it carried out 
were sufficient at such an early period in the borrowing  relationship. I wouldnt have expected it to 
have carried out any further in-depth  checks or taken  additional  steps to verify the information it 
had. I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied upon that information  in making its 
decision about whether to lend to Mr D, and after taking  into account  his historic short-term loan 
defaults. And so it follows that I cant say that MoneyBoat has done something wrong in lending to 
Mr D. 
I appreciate my provisional findings are likely  to disappoint Mr D, but I hope my explanation will 
help him understand how Ive reached this conclusion.  
Ref: DRN9380806