K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent him contactless current account cards despite 
him asking  to have  a card without this facility.
background
Mr A upgraded his current account with HSBC  in June 2017. He told HSBC he didnt want a 
contactless card. He was concerned a contactless card would be vulnerable  to fraud.  
Sometime later, Mr A realised the card HSBC gave him was contactless. He asked HSBC  
for a replacement non-contactless card. However, the replacement card HSBC sent Mr A 
was also contactless,  so he complained to HSBC.
HSBC apologised  for the error in sending  Mr A the contactless cards and offered him £125  
compensation to apologise for any upset  and inconvenience caused. Unhappy  with this 
offer, Mr A referred his complaint to our service. He was unhappy HSBC couldnt  provide 
recordings of all his calls,  including one where  he was hung  up on and another  in which he 
was asked to spell his full name. 
Our investigator contacted HSBC. It acknowledged  its error in sending  out contactless  cards 
but said Mr A wasnt left without a card that worked at any time. HSBC said it didnt have a 
recording of a call in which Mr A was asked to spell his full name.  But Mr A would  have been  
asked for his full name and it wouldnt have been  unreasonable if one of HSBCs  staff had 
asked him to spell it. HSBC knew one of Mr As calls ended after Mr A asked one of its 
representatives to hold the line whilst he took another call  but it couldnt  be sure it didnt  
hang up on him. But HSBC provided  feedback  to the representatives manager and 
apologised in writing.  
Our investigator agreed HSBC had made a number of errors. But he thought HSBCs offer of 
£125 compensation fairly recognised the upset  and inconvenience caused. He noted  that 
Mr A hadnt  been  caused any financial loss as a result of being sent a contactless  card.  
Mr A disagreed with our investigators  opinion. He said HSBC breached his trust and caused 
grave inconvenience by having  to repeat his complaint to several different complaint 
handlers. Mr A also said hed disputed several transactions he didnt recognise when he had 
a contactless  card.  His account has also since been  closed. 
Our investigator asked  Mr A for details  of the disputed transactions. As Mr A didnt provide 
these, our investigator told him we would consider his complaint on the basis  that theres no 
evidence to show any loss was caused as a result of using the contactless cards. Our 
investigator remained of the view that £125  fairly recognised the upset and inconvenience 
caused by HSBC sending out contactless  cards when  it shouldnt have. Mr A disagreed,  so 
his complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not upheld  Mr As 
complaint. I realise  my decision is likely  to disappoint him, but Ill explain my reasons. 
HSBCs records  show that between June  2017  and May 2018, HSBC sent Mr A three  
contactless cards. The non-contactless  card was sent in June 2018 after Mr A complained.  
Ref: DRN96193132Its not in dispute  here that HSBC  made  mistakes  so I need to consider whether HSBCs  
offer of £125 compensation is fair.
I understand Mr A was worried  about having a contactless card.  But hes not provided any 
specific evidence that having a contactless  card has caused  him any fiancial loss, such as 
details of transactions hes disputed with HSBC. 
Once Mr A realised he had a contactless  card, he made a number  of phone calls to HSBC to 
sort the problem out. I think HSBC took his concerns seriously  and took steps to resolve 
Mr As complaint. Taking  into account  the circumstances, I think  £125  fairly recognises the 
upset and inconvenience caused  to Mr A. Ive not asked  HSBC  to increase the 
compensation its offered Mr A, so its now up to him to decide whether he accepts its offer of 
£125.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9619313