K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc and the way in which  it 
dealt with his complaint.  He is also unhappy  that he was paying a monthly  fee while he was 
unable to use his credit card. 
background
Mr J is a credit card customer of Santander.  During 2018, he complained  to Santander on a 
number of occasions. Ill set out the background of the main  complaints that Mr J made here. 
On 27 May 2018, Mr J complained to Santander  that he received poor service during a 
telephone call he had made to it the same day. After Santander investigated  this complaint, 
it sent him its final response  on 2 June 2018.  It told him that, after it had listened to the call in 
question, it didnt agree he had received poor service. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
In August  2018,  Mr J complained to Santander about the length of time hed waited on hold 
during a telephone call when he wanted  to discuss a balance transfer. He said he had 
waited over 20 minutes to be connected to an adviser and that once he had been transferred 
the call was terminated. Santander  didnt  uphold this complaint and said the length of time 
Mr J had waited on hold was due to high call volumes. It also explained  that Mr Js call 
wasnt terminated deliberately. And it said after his call was disconnected he was transferred 
to a new adviser to discuss his account  within two minutes of the previous call ending.   
On 24 September  2018, Mr J complained  that he hadnt been  able to use his credit card as 
he wasnt aware the card needed to be unlocked at an automated  teller  machine (ATM) prior 
to using it. He said Santander hadnt notified  him about this and he wanted it to refund all of 
the monthly fees hed been  charged  for having the card while he hadnt been  able to use it.
Santander investigated this complaint and sent its final response to Mr J on 1 October 2018. 
In its response it said the letter Mr J was sent with his PIN made it clear that he would need 
to unlock it at an ATM  prior to using the card. It also said it had sent Mr J another PIN after 
he had requested a replacement.  And it explained  there was no evidence he had tried to use 
his card or that payments  had been declined. But it decided to refund one monthly  fee 
payment as a gesture of goodwill in efforts to resolve Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Santanders response. So, on 2 October, he emailed it to say he 
hadnt received  a telephone call or letter  confirming  how it would be resolving  this complaint. 
Following a further investigation, Santander  told him its decision remained unchanged  and it 
said it had already confirmed its response  to his complaint  in its letter  of 1 October 2018.
When Mr J brought his complaint to our service he told us he wasnt happy  with the service 
he had received and how his complaint had been  dealt with by Santander. He told our 
adjudicator that he thought he had received poor customer service  because of the length of 
time he had been  waiting  on hold during  a telephone  call to Santander, which was 
subsequently disconnected. He felt Santander hadnt acknowledged or dealt  with his 
complaint properly. And he also said he had been charged a monthly fee while  he hadnt 
able to use his credit card, which he felt was unfair.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Js complaint  and wasnt persuaded that Santander had 
done anything  wrong. They thought Santander  had dealt with Mr Js complaint fairly and that 
Ref: DRN93328842it didnt need to do anything more here. But Mr J disagreed. So his complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr Js complaint.  The first concerns the service he received on the 
telephone and the way in which his complaint about this was dealt  with. So, Ill focus on that 
issue first.
Because Mr J made a number of complaints to Santander, our adjudicator asked  him to 
clarify when  he felt he received poor service  over the telephone. Ive set out the two calls 
that Mr J expressed unhappiness about in the background to this complaint. Mr J wasnt able 
to clarify which of those  phone calls he was complaining  to our service about  because he 
said he couldnt recall  the date of the telephone call. But he thought it related to his call to 
Santander in June or July. Santander  thought the complaint about service was about Mr Js 
telephone call on 27 May 2018. As Mr J didnt dispute it was this call he was complaining  
about Ill look on what happened during the May call. 
Mr J said that that during  that call he was placed  on hold for a long time and he said 
Santander then disconnected his call. I understand that Mr J is unhappy about his wait time. 
But this isnt something Santander  is able to influence as it cant control or predict  call 
volumes. So, I cant say its done  anything wrong  by keeping Mr J on hold for the length of 
time it did.
Mr J said after his call disconnected Santander didnt call him back. Other than this, he didnt 
expand any further  on the specifics of the poor service  he felt he had received during this 
call. Santander  said it listened to all the calls involving  Mr J but it couldnt identify poor 
customer service  during any of the telephone discussions it had with Mr J. Santander  told 
our adjudicator it hadnt been able to locate the call recording. So, it couldnt  provide a copy  
to us. But from the notes it provided of this call, its clear  that Santander terminated a call it 
had with Mr J because  the line was quiet and there  was no interaction. And it explained that 
terminating a call in these circumstances was in line with its procedures. 
I understand that when Mr J contacted  Santander  again 30 minutes later, he wasnt  able to 
answer security questions correctly. Mr J had contacted Santander to discuss  his 
statements. So the adviser he spoke with put Mr J on hold so they could speak  with a 
manager. Santander said that when  this member of staff returned to the call it had 
disconnected. And because  Santander hadnt  successfully completed its security  checks 
with Mr J it wasnt able to return  his call. I dont think this was unreasonable and Im not 
persuaded Santander did anything wrong  by not calling Mr J back. This was just as much for 
Mr Js protection as it was for Santanders. I say this because  had Santander discussed Mr 
Js account with him in circumstances where he hadnt passed security,  this couldve led to 
criticism that it had compromised Mr Js account security.
Mr J feels Santander didnt acknowledge or deal with his complaint. But from the evidence 
Ive seen each  time Mr J raised  a complaint, Santander investigated what  had happened and 
responded in a prompt manner. It had up to eight weeks to investigate Mr Js complaint and 
send him a final response letter. Santander  consistently sent its final response to Mr J within 
Ref: DRN93328843a week of him raising a complaint. And after Mr J complained in September  2018, Santander 
reconsidered his complaint and responded a day later. 
Mr J said Santander didnt  contact  him by telephone  following this complaint. But Santander 
said Mr J had asked it to respond to his complaint  in writing. And it also said when Mr J had 
been contacted by telephone he didnt accept  the call. So, I dont think  Santander did 
anything wrong  by writing  to him about  his complaint. And, as Im satisfied it dealt with each 
complaint proactively, I cant  fairly  conclude that Santander didnt acknowledge or deal with 
Mr Js complaint. 
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Js complaint, which is about him not being able to use 
his credit card and the monthly fees hes been charged. Mr J said he wasnt aware his card 
needed to be unlocked prior to use. But Santander  said when he was sent his PIN he was 
informed in writing that his card needed to be unlocked using an ATM  before it could be 
used. 
Its clear that Mr J received his credit card and Santander said when the card was produced 
it wouldve  automatically generated  a PIN. It also said Mr J wouldve received  a letter  
containing his PIN when  the account was first opened in June  2018.  Santander  cant  provide 
a copy of this letter  because it would show Mr Js PIN. And because  of this, it said this letter 
is generated only once for security reasons. But its shown us a template that it uses  when 
sending PIN information  to its customers. And, based on the evidence  Ive seen I think  its 
more likely than not that Mr J was sent correspondence regarding his PIN. It may be that he 
didnt receive this, perhaps due to issues with the post. But thats not something that I can 
fairly hold Santander  responsible for.
Having seen what Santander said it wouldve sent Mr J with his PIN I can see it gave clear 
instructions as to what Mr J needed  to do to activate his PIN and use his card. This letter  
also tells customers to contact Santander  in the event of any queries relating to the use of 
their PIN. When Mr J contacted  Santander in September 2018, I can see that it helped him 
gain access to his credit card by sending him another  PIN. 
It wouldnt be fair to hold Santander responsible for Mr J being unable  to use his card. I say 
this because Im persuaded it told him what he needed to do. Had those instructions been 
followed, Mr J wouldve been able to use his card. When  it investigated, Santander said 
there was no evidence to suggest that Mr J had tried to use his card or that it had been 
declined. It told us that if Mr J had attempted to use his card to make a payment it would see 
a record of this. But it told him it would refund  one monthly fee as a gesture of good  will. I 
think this all demonstrates Santander  acted reasonably and was trying  to assist Mr J here.
Mr J thinks Santander should refund  the monthly  fees it applied  to his account. But, having  
seen the credit card agreement and key facts document that relate to Mr Js credit card I 
think it was explained  clearly that having this card would  attract  a monthly  fee. Mr J wouldve 
had to agree  to the terms of his credit card when  he opened his account.  And, as the 
monthly charges  were  applied in line with information Ive seen I think Santander was 
entitled to apply the charges it did. So, I wont be asking it to refund Mr J.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Santander has done anything  wrong  here. Its 
acted fairly  and reasonably and I dont think it would  be fair to ask it to do anymore.
Ref: DRN93328844my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9332884