K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited rejected his section 75 claim when he 
complained about issues  hes experienced with a caravan.
background 
In April 2016 Mr A purchased a caravan and paid a deposit of £500  using his Vanquis credit 
card.
In March 2018 Mr A had the caravan serviced. The engineer  discovered  that the nearside 
axle and suspension  had suffered severe degradation and that the inner axle had turned  
within the outer axle tube.  The engineer also said that a non-approved repair  had been  
carried out with significant torque being  applied  to the hub locknut jamming the stub axle. 
The engineer told Mr A that the caravan wasnt safe to tow or roadworthy because  of these 
issues.
Mr A contacted Vanquis to make a section 75 claim.  Vanquis  referred  him back to the 
supplying dealer, who disagreed with what the engineer had said and relied on the pre-
delivery checks which hadnt identified any issues. 
Based on this, Vanquis didnt uphold the section 75 claim. Mr A complained  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He was satisfied that the caravan wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply because  it had been supplied  with a faulty  axle 
which had been  the subject of a temporary  repair.  The investigator was satisfied there had 
been a breach of contract and said that Vanquis should arrange  for the caravan to be 
repaired.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed lost out on holidays hed booked  because hed been unable  
to use the caravan for the last 14 months, during  which time hed still had to pay for 
insurance and storage  costs. He also felt that the caravan  had depreciated in value  during  
this time meaning he would get less for it in part exchange, even if it was fully repaired. Mr A 
said hed already purchased a new caravan in any event and he wanted  a full refund of the 
cost of the old van.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services, or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation  by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr As complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract  in other words, Id need to be satisfied that 
the caravan wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr As complaint, 
Ive taken account of section  75. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example,  a court might reach if Mr A pursued  a claim for breach of contract. 
Ref: DRN99084362Under the relevant law, the caravan needs to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at 
the point of supply. If the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality then a breach of contract can 
be said to have occurred.
Having looked  at all of the available  evidence, including the engineers  report and the 
independent report, Im satisfied that the fault and the non-approved repair were present at 
the point of supply. Because  of this, the supplying  dealer has breached  its obligations to 
provide a caravan of satisfactory  quality. 
At this stage, it doesnt appear to be disputed  by Vanquis that theres been breach  of 
contract so I wont focus further on this. What is in dispute is what  should  be done to put 
things right. So my decision will focus  on this.
When a breach of contract is established under section 75 Id expect the finance  company to 
take steps to put things right as if the breach hadnt occurred. In Mr As case, this might  
mean repairing the fault with the caravan or it might mean returning the caravan for a full 
refund of all payments made (less a deduction  for fair use).
Mr A wants  to return the caravan and have all of his payments refunded.  However, where a 
car (or a caravan,  as in this case) is found  to have a point of supply fault, the business is 
generally allowed  one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair  isnt successful, the 
consumer can ask to reject the car (or caravan).
In this case, Vanquis hasnt had the opportunity  to repair the fault. I think it should be 
allowed that opportunity. Theres evidence to suggest that the axle can be repaired at 
proportionate cost. Vanquis  should pay for this repair.
I can see that the relationship between Mr A and the supplying dealer has broken down so I 
think Mr A should have the choice as to where  the repairs are carried  out.
Ive taken into account what Mr A has said about  not being  able to use the caravan for a long 
time, whilst still incurring  insurance and storage costs. He also says the caravan has 
depreciated in value.  
Weighing everything up, I think Mr A should  receive  compensation for his losses  in relation 
to insurance and storage fees.  I also think he should be reimbursed  for the cost of the 
independent report  he obtained. In relation to depreciation, I would expect a caravan to 
depreciate in any event,  and Im not persuaded that Mr As faulty caravan has depreciated 
beyond that which would  otherwise be expected.
I appreciate that Mr A has already purchased  another caravan. I understand why hes done 
this but it doesnt  change  what  I think is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint, 
which is by having  the caravan repaired.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Vanquis Bank  Limited must:
Arrange for the caravan to be repaired at a  garage of Mr As choice and at no cost to 
Mr A.
Ref: DRN99084363Refund the insurance premiums paid by Mr A from March 2018 until now together 
with simple interest at 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the storage costs paid by Mr A from April 2018 to now together  with simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of the independent report which Mr A paid for
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9908436