K821x#15complaint
Ms G1 has complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  dealt with a claim 
she made on her home emergency policy. 
Ms G1 has complained to us through her daughter, Ms G2, but for ease I will refer to 
Ms G2s comments  as Ms G1s.  
All references to BG include its agents.  
background
In early December 2017 Ms G1 made a claim to BG after noticing that her radiators werent 
getting hot despite the heating being  on. 
BGs engineers came to the property but despite a number of visits in December 2017 and 
January 2018,  the heating at Ms G1s property was still not working. 
Ms G1 said that, days after her heating  breaking  down, she collapsed and was admitted to 
hospital for five days. She said this left her weak and was made  worse  by the fact that she 
was left with no heating for such a long time. 
BG agreed  that it provided  a poor service. It agreed to waive the cost of two power-flushes, 
despite saying  that a power-flush  was necessary.  It also compensated Ms G1 for additional  
expenses she had to make such as buying  extra heaters and paying for thank-you meals to 
friends she had to stay with for a few days. It also agreed to pay £500  for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
Ms G1 didnt  think BG had done enough  to address her complaint  so she came  to us. Our 
adjudicator agreed  and said in addition to what BG had already offered/paid it should pay a 
further £200 compensation. 
BG didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It repeated that a power-flush was 
necessary despite  the fact that the first one didnt appear to fully work.  It also said the 
payment for Ms G1s expenses which came  to around £430  included items such as thank- 
you meals  and wine which arent  covered by the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Ms G1 has provided a great deal of documents and information in relation to what  happened 
over the months  that BG was trying to resolve  the problem. Ive considered all this 
information but I wont necessarily refer to all of it in my decision in the interest of being 
concise. Also the parties generally agree on what happened after Ms G1 made her claim so I 
see no reason to rehearse  these events here. 
As both parties are in agreement about the fact that the power-flush costs have been waived 
and also about  the amount offered towards Ms G1s out of pocket  expenses, I wont go into 
this in much  detail. 
Ref: DRN99176062The policy doesnt  cover  the cost of a power-flush. BG says both power-flushes were 
necessary so Ms G1 benefitted  without having  to pay for them,  as she would normally be 
required to. As our adjudicator says it is understandable that any heating system  would  
probably benefit from a power-flush. But as neither power-flush resolved the issue  I dont 
think Ms G1 should be responsible for their cost. So even if BG hadnt waived those costs I 
wouldve considered  asking it to in any event.
BG says its offer for Ms G1s expenses includes thank you meals and wine Ms G1 got for 
friends who helped  her which arent covered  by the policy. It says I should  take this into 
account when  making  my decision. Ms G1 said she had to stay with a friend for a few days 
and that another friend took her somewhere to get more heaters. From what I understand 
these items  only came  to around £80 and BG seemed happy to pay them  from the start of 
the complaint.  
I will now go on to consider the amount of compensation offered for Ms G1s distress  and 
inconvenience. Ms G1 first made a claim on 6 December 2017. A BG engineer  attended her 
property two days later and fitted  a pump.  Ms G1 says this left her radiators cold instead of 
tepid which  was the case before the engineers visit. BG provided Ms G1 with heaters and 
then did a power-flush at the end of December. Ms G1 said the power-flush  was done 
incorrectly. The power-flush didnt resolve  Ms G1s heating and hot water issues.
Ms G1 said she had to spend  four days over the New Year  at her daughters house whereas 
normally her daughter would come  to her for the holidays. This meant  she had to travel  to 
and from her daughters  house which she says is at least  an hour and a half away. 
At the start of January 2018 Ms G1 got her own engineer who said there was an issue with 
the pump. She was advised to have another power-flush  which  was done  on 18 January. 
Ms G1 said she had hot radiators for 24 hours but they went  cold again. And she said this 
was also the case after a number of further visits from BG. She said at the end of January a 
BG engineer said there was a part missing  from the pump. After he rectified this the heating 
came back  on.
Ms G1 says that BG caused  unnecessary  delays  and that the heating couldve been fixed  
much sooner. She said her own engineer identified there was an issue with the pump  
without even opening her boiler.  She said had the BG engineer  installed the pump properly 
in the first place, the heating wouldve come back on only a few days after she made her 
claim.
Ms G1 said that, especially after her hospital  stay, she was very weak  but still had to deal 
with BG and its engineers and be available for appointments, liaise with them  over the phone 
and all this made matters worse. Ms G1 had also asked BG to add her daughter as a 
representative on her policy so it would liaise with her. BG accepts that it didnt do so until 
February 2018.
I think BG did cause unnecessary delays. I agree with Ms G1 that, on balance,  the issue  was 
the pump which was installed  early  on in the claim. I say this because  despite two power 
flushes the heating didnt come back on and it wasnt  until the pump was fixed that the 
matter was resolved.  And even after it was resolved I see Ms G1 had to contact BG again  in 
February as she said the boiler had been  left with a slow leak.
I also think bearing in mind the events I mentioned above Ms G1 did suffer a great deal of 
distress and inconvenience having been without heating for months  and relying on fan 
Ref: DRN99176063heaters, over a very cold period of the year. BG also accepts that it wasnt always  clear 
about when its engineers  would be arriving and that it mistakenly asked Ms G1 to pay her 
excess twice. 
For these reasons, I agree with our adjudicator  that BG should pay her a further  £200  in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused Ms G1. 
In her complaint to us Ms G1 asked for an apology from BG and for it to make  sure that it 
doesnt treat other vulnerable customers in the same way. Ive seen that BG has apologised 
to Ms G1 and I dont  think a further apology would  satisfy  either  party. In terms of how BG 
treats its other customers this isnt something  I can deal with. We are not the regulator  so its 
not our role to police the insurance  industry.  Our role is to look at individual  complaints in 
order to decide  whether  insurers have  behaved  reasonably and fairly in each case. If other 
BG customers are unhappy with it they can complain to us and we will look at each 
complaint on its individual facts. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding Ms G1s complaint about British  Gas Insurance  
Limited. In addition to what  it has already paid or agreed not to charge for (it paid £427.35 
towards expenses,  £500 for distress  and inconvenience and agreed to waive  the cost of the 
power-flushes which cost £790), British Gas Insurance  Limited  must pay Ms G1 a further  
£200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her to bring it to a total of 
£700.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9917606