K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited failed to fulfil its guarantee that his 
premium for his private  medical  insurance  policy would not increase because of his age. 
background
In 2000, Mr C took out a private medical  insurance  (PMI) policy providing cover for both 
himself and his girlfriend (now wife). It was offered by a company which was later taken over 
by Aviva;  for convenience, I shall refer only to Aviva in this decision. The policy  had a 
Guaranteed Loyalty  Bonus (GLB) which said:   
For as long as the policy remains in force and the premium applied  to each individual  insured 
adult is paid, each  insured  adult  will be charged the premium applicable to new entrants in the 
age band applied to the insured person at their date of entry.
In 2010, Aviva closed  the scheme  to new members.
In 2018, Mr C complained  to Aviva.  He said hed been enticed into taking  out the policy  through  
the GLB. Hed understood that, while this meant he was paying higher premiums  at the outset, 
he would  eventually benefit from lower premiums than would be payable under  a conventional 
PMI policy as he got older. However,  he considered that the closure of the scheme to new 
members had effectively undermined the GLB so that, at the time he should be reaping its 
rewards, his policy was actually still more expensive than other products with no such 
guarantee. He considered that hed paid more for his cover, and would continue to pay more for 
his cover,  than he would have to pay for a conventional PMI policy. He asked  Aviva  to work out 
what he would have  paid had the scheme remained open to new members  and to refund him 
that amount,  as well as to calculate  his future  premiums on this basis.
Aviva didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said it had continued  to honour the GLB despite  the 
closure of the scheme to new members.  It therefore didnt accept that it had done  anything 
wrong.
Mr C was dissatisfied at Avivas response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
with Avivas explanation.
Mr C didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He reiterated that when he took the policy out 
he understood it was more expensive than a conventional PMI policy at the outset but that 
this investment would  pay off in the long-term because new entrants would effectively be 
subsidising his cover  as he got older. He said that by stopping  new entrants, Aviva  had 
rendered the GLB meaningless,  not least because the terms of the GLB specifically referred 
to the premium applicable  to new entrants.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN97679222From a strict contractual point of view, I am satisfied that Aviva has done nothing wrong. The 
policy is annually renewable. Aviva is allowed to make changes to the policy terms and the 
premium at each renewal.  Aviva is not contractually obliged to continue offering the policy 
and was therefore entitled to take the decision to close it to new members.
Even in terms of the GLB, I am satisfied that Aviva has met its strict contractual obligations. 
As I understand it, since  closing the scheme to new entrants, Aviva has calculated a notional 
new entrant rate for the purposes  of the guarantee. It has shown that Mr C, who joined the 
scheme while aged between 40 and 44, is still being  charged  the rate applicable to that age 
group. And all policyholders, regardless of which age group they fall into, are subject to 
exactly the same percentage increase to their premiums each year;  there is no 
discrimination according to age.   
However, Mr C believes  this policy should  be judged differently  to other annually renewable 
policies because of the GLB. He considers this made  the policy akin to a long-term 
insurance policy. He believes the closure  of the policy to new entrants in 2010 fundamentally 
undermined the GLB because new entrants were required to subsidise existing members.
I recognise Mr Cs concern, and he is by no means the first member  of this policy  to raise  a 
complaint with us. It is true that, once the scheme  was closed to new members, the average 
cost of claims per policyholder would thereafter be expected to rise year on year as the 
membership aged.  However, while Mr C inferred that the policy was intended to operate 
through new entrants subsidising long-standing  policyholders, I dont have any evidence  to 
show this was the case. I have seen no claims to this effect  in Avivas promotional  literature.  
It might be that the increased cost of cover in later years was intended to have been met by 
reserves built up through the payments  made by scheme members in the early years  of their 
policy. Therefore, I cannot reasonably say that the closure of the scheme to new entrants 
necessarily meant that the guarantee was fundamentally undermined. And so I cant  say that 
it was unfair  for Aviva to take this action.
And even  if I thought  Aviva had misled Mr C with regard  to the GLB,  it doesnt  necessarily  
follow that he has been disadvantaged. I dont have evidence to show  that he has 
necessarily paid more  for his policy over the time he has been  under cover than he would  
have paid for a conventional PMI policy. Mr C has provided evidence  from his broker which  
shows that it reviewed the policy at each renewal to ensure it remained good value. In the 
first few years of the policy, the broker regarded it as still providing the best long-term value  
because of the GLB, which might suggest that Mr C was paying slightly  more than he would 
for a conventional PMI policy. However, I note that in 2011 the broker  advised  that the Aviva 
policy was easily the cheapest policy available.
Mr C says he recently obtained a quote  for comparable cover  through another policy and it 
was much cheaper than his Aviva policy. I havent  seen details of this but I should point out 
that any new policy which Mr C were to take out would  be freshly underwritten  so that he 
wouldnt be covered  for existing conditions. This would reduce his risk to the insurer and so it 
would be expected that he would  receive a cheaper  quote than he would to renew an 
existing policy, regardless of who he was insured  with. Furthermore,  the quote may have  
incorporated an introductory no claims discount  meaning that the underlying base premium 
was disguised. I therefore dont think the existence  of this quote necessarily means Mr C is 
being charged an uncompetitive premium by Aviva.
Ref: DRN97679223In summary,  while I understand Mr Cs concern, I am satisfied that Aviva has continued to 
meet its strict contractual obligations and didnt act unfairly by closing the scheme to new 
entrants. I havent seen  evidence to persuade me that Mr C has necessarily  ended  up being  
financially disadvantaged by taking out this policy rather than a conventional  PMI policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9767922