K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs S took out the policy to cover  their monthly mortgage repayments in 1993. They  
paid a monthly premium  for the policy,  which  covered  Mr S if he couldnt work due to 
disablement or unemployment. 
I gather  Mr and Mrs S arranged  a further advance on their mortgage a few years later, 
although it seems the PPI remained unchanged.    
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs S case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale took place  many years ago, so its not surprising that there are gaps in the 
information from the time thats still available. Ive considered the remaining evidence,  
including what Mr and Mrs S say about being led to believe the PPI was compulsory  if they 
wanted the mortgage. 
In the absence of any evidence to support what Mr and Mrs S have said,  I think its just as 
likely they were made aware  the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it. Given how 
long ago the sale took place, I understand if they remember things differently.
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S. So, as well as having  to give them 
enough information for them to make an informed choice about taking it, Lloyds should have 
looked into whether  it was right for Mr and Mrs S. I dont know  what steps Lloyds took but I 
think its recommendation was suitable for them in any case.
I say that because, from what Mr and Mrs S have told us about  their circumstances in 1993, 
it appears Mr S was eligible for the policy and that it was affordable  for them.  And I cant, for 
instance, see that hed have been  affected by the exclusions to, or limits on, the cover.  
Mr S says he wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay through his employer and that he didnt 
have any savings. The policy,  on the other  hand,  would have paid out for up to 12 months  
per claim. Because Mr and Mrs S borrowing was secured against their home, I think  its 
likely they would have  valued the protection the PPI provided.
Ref: DRN90804702Ive thought about the life cover Mr and Mrs S say they held. But I dont  think  this meant the 
PPI was unsuitable for them as it paid a regular benefit for disability or unemployment, 
whereas the life cover would have paid a lump sum benefit on the insureds  death.  So they 
covered different things.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons I 
think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information would have 
stopped Mr and Mrs S from buying it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Lloyds has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs S. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S 
because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done  this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9080470