K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs T has been  represented by her husband  for much of this complaint but for ease I will 
refer to Mrs T throughout  this decision.
Mrs T took receipt  of a used car in February 2016. She financed the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Santander. At the point of supply the car had already 
completed 29,982  miles and was about  three and a half years old.
Mrs T reported a fault with the cars indicators in July 2016 and the dealership  investigated 
the issue. The Communication Interface  Module (CIM) was replaced and this resolved issue. 
At that point the cars recorded mileage was 32,864  miles.
In October  2018 Mrs T was disappointed to note a similar problem with the indicators. She 
complained to Santander telling them that the CIM needed replacing  again.
Santander explained that they were only responsible for issues  that were present or 
developing at the point of supply. They said that there was no evidence the repair  that had 
been carried out to the CIM in 2016 had failed and they didnt think  they were responsible for 
this new issue.
So Mrs T referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided his opinion.  He 
thought it was most likely  that the repair in 2016 had been successful and that this was a 
subsequent fault. He therefore didnt think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible  for 
rectifying it and he didnt think they needed to take any further  action.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigator and the complaint was therefore  referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs T so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs T acquired her car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Ref: DRN97971402The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Santander,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs T. The car here 
was around three and a half years old and had travelled just short of 30,000 miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.  
I understand Mrs Ts frustration that a similar  problem to that which was reported in July 
2016 has occurred  but Im not persuaded there is evidence here that the repair completed in 
July 2016 has failed. I think its more likely, given the time thats passed and the mileage  
thats been completed, that this problem is unrelated to the initial repair  and Im not 
persuaded, by the evidence available, that the fault was developing from the onset of this 
agreement. I therefore  dont  think it would  be fair to ask Santander  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9797140