K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon)  lost his late wifes death 
certificate. Its cost Mr K a lot of money  to try to replace it.
background
Mr Ks wife was a Thai national and died in Thailand. Aegon  needed  her original  death  
certificate to process the benefits from her pension, for which  Mr K was the beneficiary. Mr K 
provided the certificate and an English translation, which Aegon  subsequently lost. 
Aegon paid £100 to cover the cost of replacing the certificate, plus £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  But Mr K travelled to Thailand to get the replacement certificate, and his costs  
were more than the £400 Aegon had paid.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March  2019. A copy  is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In summary,  my conclusion was that, due to the significant 
distress and inconvenience Mr K had been  caused, Aegon should pay him K £600  in 
addition to the £400 already paid. 
Mr K said he accepted my provisional  findings.
Aegon didnt accept  my provisional  findings.  It said, in summary,  that Mr K couldve sourced 
a replacement certificate from the UK and that it wasnt  necessary for him to travel  to 
Thailand. It considered  £600 in addition to the £400 it had already paid was too much.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Aegon has said in response to my provisional findings. It has 
queried who told Mr K that only the original signatory to the first death certificate can obtain  a 
replacement. I understand  Mr K discovered  this when he tried to obtain a replacement  
certificate in Thailand.  But this point doesnt  change my overall  conclusions  about the 
complaint.
I remain mindful of Mr Ks circumstances when  he realised  the original certificate had been 
lost and would need to be replaced.  I still think the loss of the certificate created additional 
stress for Mr K at what was already a difficult time.  
Aegon considers Mr K couldve  made his own enquiries with the Royal Thai Embassy in the 
UK, and that it wouldve  helped  him get a copy of the certificate. 
But it was Aegon that lost the certificate, and Mr K spoke to the business once the error  
came to light. Having listened  to those discussions, I remain  of the view that at that stage it 
was reasonable  for Mr K to conclude that he would have to travel to Thailand to get the 
replacement certificate. 
Aegon placed emphasis  on trying  to find the certificate and translation internally, but didnt 
offer any other assistance or suggestions to Mr K. It said it had tried to find out how much a 
replacement Thai certificate would cost,  but hadnt  been able to establish this. It said it was 
Ref: DRN97704272offering £100  to cover anticipated costs,  together with a further £300 for the inconvenience  
to Mr K. Aegon mentioned  that if the actual cost of obtaining the certificate  was more than 
the amount it was paying, Mr K could send evidence of his costs  to Aegon to review. But it 
didnt commit to covering  any additional  costs. 
From the overall discussions, Im not persuaded that Mr K shouldve realised there were 
other means  of obtaining the certificate from the UK. And so I dont think  its unreasonable  
that Mr K made the trip.
Overall, Im not persuaded to depart  from the position set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon) should  pay Mr K
£600, in addition to the £400 it has already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97704273Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr K complains that Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon)  lost his late wifes death  
certificate. Its cost Mr K a lot of money to try to replace  it.
background
Mr Ks wife was a Thai national and died in Thailand. Aegon needed  her original  death certificate 
to process  the benefits  from her pension, for which  he was the beneficiary. Mr K provided the 
certificate and an English translation, which Aegon subsequently lost.
Aegon paid £100 to cover the cost of replacing  the certificate, plus £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused. But Mr K travelled  to Thailand to get the replacement certificate, and his costs  were more 
than the £400 Aegon had paid.
Our adjudicator thought Aegon should pay £300 in addition to the £400 it had already paid.  He 
said the lost certificate had caused considerable  problems for Mr K, which  was why he thought  it 
was reasonable for the compensation  to be increased.
Aegon didnt agree  with the adjudicators conclusions. It said Mr K couldve sourced a 
replacement certificate with the help of the Royal  Thai Embassy  in London. So it wouldnt  have 
been necessary for him to travel to Thailand. It said it wasnt willing  to pay the extra  
compensation, and asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
Mr K told us he hadnt been able to get a replacement certificate while hed been in Thailand. Hed 
been told that only the original signatory to the death certificate could get a
replacement  and this wasnt Mr K.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aegon has accepted that it lost the original death certificate and English translation.  So I
need to assess whether the compensation its paid to Mr K is fair and reasonable.
Compensation should  put Mr K into the position it wouldve been in if the certificate hadnt
been lost.
From what Ive seen, I accept that it might have been possible for Mr K to get a replacement 
certificate without travelling to Thailand. The Royal  Thai Embassy  told Aegon that Mr K couldve 
appointed a Power of Attorney to act for him in Thailand.  It later suggested  Mr K could appoint a 
Thai funeral director to deal with this on his behalf by way of a letter of authorisation.  I understand 
the Embassy  had indicated it may be able to help Mr K with
these matters  but this was offered after hed made the trip to Thailand.
Im mindful that the practicalities of dealing with a situation like this can be challenging. And I
consider these challenges are probably  even  greater when dealing  with matters overseas.
In one of Mr Ks calls to Aegon,  he said his late wife was from an area of Thailand where  English 
wasnt widely spoken. He said the death certificate had to be translated  to English  in Bangkok, which 
was some distance  from his wifes home town. In addition, Mr K doesnt speak Thai. Taking  all of 
these points into account,  I think it wouldve been difficult for Mr K
to try to arrange  a Thai power of attorney from the UK.
Ref: DRN97704274As such,  keeping in mind  the particular  circumstances of this case, I have  no doubt that the loss of 
the original  death certificate will have  created  significant additional stress for Mr K, at what was 
already a difficult time.
And having listened to Mr Ks calls to Aegon in June 2018, I can understand why at that stage he 
might have thought the only way he could  get a replacement certificate  was to travel to Thailand  
himself. On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to do so.
Mr K paid about £560 for his return flight to Thailand. He also paid taxi fares  while  he was there,  
which were  about £200 in total.
Mr K has mentioned  money he paid his Thai hosts, but on balance I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask Aegon to reimburse him for that.
Overall, when I take account  of the trouble and upset this matter has caused Mr K, and the costs 
hes incurred (which I dont think are unreasonable), I think Aegon  should pay £1,000 in total to Mr 
K. So it should pay £600 in addition to the £400 it has already paid.
Mr K says hes been  told the death certificate can only be replaced if the original signatory  attends in 
person. I understand it may be some time before the person in question is back  in Thailand. So Mr K 
may want to consider contacting the Thai Embassy in London in the meantime, to see whether it is 
able to help him.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Scottish Equitable plc (trading as Aegon) should pay Mr K
£600, in addition to the £400 it has already  paid.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9770427