K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the amount that shes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited for damage to a car that she returned when she voluntarily terminated 
her hire purchase agreement. Her husband  is helping her with her complaint.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs M under a hire purchase  agreement  with Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services that she signed in October 2015. The car was returned  by Mrs M when 
she voluntarily terminated her agreement and it was appraised by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services in May 2018. Mrs M was invoiced a total of £1,241.10 for damage to the car  
which included four scratches, two dents, damage  to a door and a gouged wheel. Mrs M 
complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services and it offered to reduce the damage 
charge to £818.50. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think it fair or 
reasonable for Mrs M to be charged  for repairs which werent carried  out - especially without 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services being able to show that there  was a financial loss when 
the car was sold. So he said that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  should waive all 
charges for damage.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It refers  to another decision from this service which says that: the agreement  
allows Mercedes to estimate the cost of repairs - even if it chooses not to have  them 
completed. And to be compensated in line with this to reflect the consequent reduction  in 
sale value. And it says that regardless of the sale price that was achieved  at auction, it 
wouldve been substantially less than what wouldve been achieved if the car had been 
returned within its vehicle  return standards. And it says that it wouldnt be in-line with treating 
customers fairly if Mrs M didnt have to pay for damage charges which are clearly evident,  
just because it hasnt  been able to evidence a loss  and it would  be impossible to evidence  
how much  the car wouldve sold for at auction if it had been returned  in the correct condition. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We consider all complaints on the 
individual merits of that complaint. Ive reviewed the decision to which Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services but I consider that the decision that Ive reached below is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M voluntarily terminated her hire purchase  agreement and returned the car to 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services. It appraised the car in May 2018. The appraisal form 
describes damage  to the car and includes photos which  clearly  show  damage to the car. 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services charged Mrs M £1,241.10 for that damage  but when 
she complained  about the charges it offered  to reduce them  to £818.50.
The hire purchase agreement says that:
If the Vehicle is not in good condition, repair and working order when it is returned to 
us  you will have to compensate us for any loss that we suffer. In such  
circumstances, we will obtain  estimates for the cost of any works of repair  or 
Ref: DRN96174552replacement which we reasonably consider are necessary  to restore the Vehicle to 
the appropriate condition. We will then be entitled  to choose whether to carry out 
some or all of those works, in which case the actual costs which we incur  will be 
immediately payable by you. If there are any works which we do not carry out, you 
will be instead be liable to pay us the estimated cost of those works as agreed 
compensation for the consequent reduction  in the sale value of the Vehicle.
But to be able to charge  Mrs M for the damage  to the car, I consider that Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services needs to be able to show what its loss has been. It didnt repair  Mrs Ms 
car before it was sold at auction so it hasnt incurred a repair cost. And its not been able to 
show how much  the car wouldve been  worth if those repairs  had been carried  out.
I consider that it would only be fair or reasonable for Mrs M to be liable  in these 
circumstances for the actual loss that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  has incurred  and 
not its perceived or potential loss. I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services to charge Mrs M for the repairs costs  that it hasnt incurred or the 
loss in value of the car where  it hasnt been able to show what the actual loss in value was. 
And Im not persuaded that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  had provided enough 
evidence to show that the value of the car has been  reduced by £818.50 because of the 
damage that was identified  in the appraisal form.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services to charge Mrs M £818.50 for the damage to her car. And I find that it 
should waive the charges for damage that it has applied  to Mrs Ms account.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. And I order  Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to waive the charges for damage that it has applied  to 
Mrs Ms account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9617455