K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background 
This complaint is about 3 instalment loans Uncle Buck Finance provided to Mrs B between  
13 February 2018 and 1 April 2018. Mrs Bs borrowing history with Uncle  Buck Finance was 
as follows:
Type of 
LoanLoan number
Loan amount
Highest Repayment
Total Due Start Date End Date
Instalment 1 £400 £120.04 £711.10 13/02/18 26/03/18
Instalment 2 £200 £66.59 £395.10 27/03/18 29/03/18
Instalment 3 £400 £132.32 £784.60 01/04/18 Settled on 
unknown date
Mrs B told us she spent a significant  amount  of her earnings gambling and recently 
produced evidence of that by bank statements.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint and thought all the loans should  not have been  
given. Uncle  Buck Finance disagreed with our adjudicators view and the complaint was 
passed to me.
Uncle Buck  Finance added some points, some  of which are as follows:
It did not know about Mrs Bs gambling;
She did not tell it about her gambling at any time although she had opportunity to 
disclose it;
It asked Mrs B to update her income  and outgoings or asked  her to confirm  there  
were no changes before  each loan;
Her bank statements  do not show she was overdrawn between February and March 
2018;
Its documents included warnings  about product suitability which  Mrs B had to sign 
acceptance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mrs B could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
Ref: DRN91667342amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck Finance should  fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So I think that it is important for me to start 
by saying that Uncle Buck Finance was required to establish whether Mrs B could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. 
Uncle Buck  Finance told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks  before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs B. Ive thought about  this with a view to seeing if there was a point  at 
which Uncle  Buck Finance should reasonably have seen that lending  was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful to Mrs B. 
Having done that, I agree  with our adjudicator  that, having completed initial checks, Uncle  
Buck Finance did not go far enough  in analysing the information it had received. So I think  
more checks could  have  been completed by Uncle Buck Finance before each loan was 
processed. 
I say this because  Ive looked at the credit  reports which Uncle Buck  Finance said it would 
have seen at the time of each loan application. Each credit report showed Mrs B had 
defaulted accounts and had accounts on which she could  not pay the minimum payment  at 
the required time. On a closer analysis, our adjudicator also correctly  pointed out that Uncle  
Buck Finance would  have seen Mrs B had over £47,000 of total debt, of which around 
Ref: DRN91667343£19,000 was revolving credit. So after seeing the credit reports, I think Uncle Buck  Finance 
should have made a full review of Mrs Bs finances  before  lending  to make  sure she could 
sustainably repay  the loans.  
As our adjudicator explained, a check which was more proportionate for Mrs Bs situation in 
respect of all three loans  would most  likely have shown that Mrs B was having problems 
managing her money. Uncle  Buck Finance  would  have  seen  that Mrs B was spending a 
significant amount  on gambling through various  betting websites.  On seeing these things, it 
is most  likely  that Uncle Buck Finance would have realised Mrs B was not engaged in short 
term lending to deal with an unexpected cash-flow.  It was more likely she had longer term 
problems related to her debts. So I think Uncle Buck Finance most likely would have seen 
that the loans  were  unsustainable for her. 
So I am upholding the complaint about these three  loans and Uncle Buck  Finance should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on the three loans ;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about the three  loans from Mrs Bs credit  
file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck Finance LLP to take off tax from this 
interest. Uncle Buck Finance LLP must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right for Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9166734