K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the premiums  charged to them by Royal & Sun Alliance  
Insurance Plc (RSA) in respect  of their home insurance for a number of years up until 2014.  
Rather unusually,  the policy was a monthly one charged by monthly premium (rather  than an 
annual policy charged in monthly  instalments). This did mean on the face of it that the 
premium could be revised during the year. In this decision, I will refer to monthly premiums.
background
Mr and Mrs D initially made a complaint to RSA in 2014 when their total premium  had gone  
up to £62.92 per month. This included home  emergency and other costs which werent  part 
of the premium RSA was charging. RSA was only responsible for the premium  included in 
that sum for buildings and contents  insurance, which was £29.98  per month.  The equivalent 
premium in 2007 was £17.75. Mr and Mrs D made  a separate complaint about the home  
emergency element  of the premium which wasnt underwritten by RSA. I understand theyve 
received a separate refund for this.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs D contacted RSAs agents and advised that they were able to obtain  a 
policy elsewhere for £14. They were  offered  a discount to £35 (for the total premium). They 
decided to proceed with the other  policy theyd  found, but complained to RSA that theyd 
been overcharged and taken advantage of. RSA said the premiums were  set in accordance 
with its pricing criteria  and were fair. It pointed out that the premiums  hadnt increased by a 
great amount since 2007, despite the fact that Mr and Mrs D had a history of claims from 
2007-2011. It said its agent shouldnt have applied the substantial discount offered in 2014, 
since this wasnt in accordance with its guidelines  on customer  loyalty discounts.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator thought  that RSA had acted reasonably, taking into 
account that it was only responsible for the buildings and contents cover of the policy. She 
also pointed out that the policys  price had increased because  of Mr and Mrs Ds claims 
history before 2011.
Mr and Mrs D were still unhappy.  They pointed  out that the new policy  they had bought in 
2014 was still considerably cheaper  than the RSA policy.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, the fact that Mr and Mrs D have  been  able to obtain a cheaper  policy  elsewhere 
doesnt mean that RSA has overcharged  them. Competing insurers often charge very 
different prices for what is effectively the same cover. Service standards  of course differ  
between insurers and it is up to an insurer to decide  how much risk is attached to it providing 
cover and the price  it needs to charge for that. Thats  not something that this Service would 
generally comment on. What we are however concerned with is whether Mr and Mrs D were 
treated fairly in relation  to how their policy was priced in comparison to other customers  of 
RSA. Ive seen no evidence to show that they werent treated consistently with other 
customers.
Ref: DRN96408702We have obtained  pricing information  from RSA and this does show  that due to four claims 
being made by Mr and Mrs D in 2007, 2008  and 2011 there  was an additional premium 
charged on the policy to reflect what RSA considered  to be an increased risk. So Mr and 
Mrs D werent  able to obtain so much of a no claims discount. In this complaint, I can only 
consider the element of the policy for which RSA is responsible, namely the buildings and 
contents insurance. The records of the premium going back to 2007 show that this element 
was £17.75 in 2007, increasing to £29 in August 2014. From January 2011 until August  
2014, the premium  increased by £3. From the pricing information weve obtained from RSA, 
I think the premiums charged were  fair and in accordance with its pricing  guidelines. So Mr 
and Mrs D were  treated the same as RSAs  other  customers.
Mr and Mrs D have pointed out that the discount put forward by RSAs agent would have 
brought the price down to £35. I dont know what part of this is the buildings and contents 
element. RSA says this discount was actually  applied in error  it contained a substantial  
customer loyalty discount and wouldnt have been  available in accordance with the 
guidelines it gave  its agents. So I dont think it reflects the price that RSA would  have 
charged for the policy had a mistake not been  made.
Whilst I also understand that Mr and Mrs Ds new policy  is still considerably cheaper,  again  
this cant be compared  to the RSA policy. There all sorts  of elements to an insurance 
premium including  introductory discounts.   
Overall my conclusion is that RSA hasnt treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly  in relation to the 
premiums it charged them for the home building and contents element of their policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9640870