K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that The Society  of Lloyds (Lloyds) has acted unfairly  when dealing  
with his claim for accidental damage  to his luxury  watch, under his home contents insurance 
policy.
background
In October  2018 Mr G went for an early morning cycle ride. The conditions were cold and icy 
and he lost control of his bicycle  and fell off it, sustaining cuts and bruises in the process. At 
the time of the accident Mr G was wearing  his luxury watch. The watch came off his wrist 
during his fall and it was badly damaged on impact. The bracelet of the watch tore in two 
places and several links were twisted.  
The watch  was listed as a specified item under the All Risks section of his home contents 
insurance policy, with a single item value of £25,000. Mr G contacted Lloyds and registered 
a claim under his contents policy.
Mr G took his watch to a local jeweller, who sent the watch to the manufacturers UK agent 
to provide a repair  estimate. The quotation  listed six items which were needed to repair the 
watch. This included a replacement bracelet, at a cost of £6,825  plus VAT. Also included  
was a full service which the agent said would need  to be carried  out as part of the repair  
process. The total cost quoted to repair Mr Gs watch was £10,027.58.
Lloyds appointed an investigator to carry out an assessment  of Mr Gs claim;  as part of its 
investigation Mr G was asked to provide proof  of purchase for his watch. He was also told he 
was required to take part in a telephone interview.  
Mr G objected to the request for proof of purchase, saying he felt it was unnecessary as it 
was already registered with the manufacturer under his name.  He also objected  to a phone  
interview, saying he would prefer any interview to be in person so he could show his injuries 
and discuss the repairs to his watch. Mr Gs request was originally agreed to  however 
Lloyds subsequently withdrew their offer of a face-to-face interview  and insisted that it 
should take place over the phone. 
Mr G said he felt as though Lloyds was trying  to avoid paying his claim  and was treating him 
like a criminal.  He submitted a complaint about the way his claim had been managed up to 
this point. Lloyds  agreed that it had made an administrative error and apologised.  It paid him 
£150 compensation in recognition of any inconvenience caused.  
The telephone interview subsequently  took place  and in early  December the investigator  
provided a written report to Lloyds.  In the report she noted that when Mr Gs watch  was last 
serviced in 2015,  the manufacturer described the bracelet as very worn and suggested its 
condition could have  been a contributory factor to the bracelet breaking during his fall. 
However she also noted that the manufacturer hadnt insisted the bracelet had to be 
repaired. In conclusion, the investigator said she was reasonably satisfied a genuine incident 
had occurred and recommended  Lloyds  should  settle the claim and pay for the repair to 
Mr Gs watch.
Lloyds took a different view and argued  it shouldnt be responsible for any pre-existing 
damage to the watch  so any settlement should  only be in respect of the additional  damage  
which occurred as a result of Mr Gs accident.  And it said it wanted to conduct a further 
Ref: DRN98157032interview with Mr G, this time in person. It said the purpose of this second interview was to 
discuss the two repair  estimates (the service  estimate from 2015  and the accident-repair 
estimate from 2018).  
Lloyds also said it wanted Mr G to give his authority for it to approach  the manufacturer  in 
order to establish  what damage occurred during the accident and what  damage  already  
existed. It said that this was so it could identify the limit of its liability, as it was only willing  to 
pay for repairs resulting  from the accident.  It pointed  out that it wasnt  declining  Mr Gs claim 
 but rather it was disputing the value of his claim    
Mr G said he was unwilling to undergo a further interview, saying hed already been 
interviewed over the phone. Lloyds subsequently withdrew its request for the second 
interview  however it refused  to progress Mr Gs claim any further,  saying that Mr G would  
first have to provide  his consent for it to obtain  a new estimate from the manufacturer, in 
respect of the accident damage  alone.  
Our investigators view was that Lloyds should settle the claim without further delay. She 
pointed out that, whilst carrying our repairs to the bracelet may result in some  betterment, 
there was no other way that the watch could be properly repaired. She also felt that the claim 
hadnt been well-handled  and so recommended that Lloyds should increase  its offer of 
compensation from £150 to £250.
Mr G agreed with our investigators view.  However Lloyds disagreed,  saying it was only 
prepared to cover the cost of the repairs which were  needed  as a result  of the accident. As 
one party didnt  agree  this matter  has been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will deal first with Mr Gs complaint that he was asked by Lloyds to provide proof  of 
purchase for his watch, even though he was the registered owner with the manufacturer.  I 
have looked at Mr Gs policy  and see that, for claims for high risk items, proof of ownership 
is required  and that this can be in the form of a receipt or recent valuation. I think  this 
condition is reasonable  and Mr G was able to provide the necessary documentation in any 
case, so his claim hasnt  been adversely affected.
Mr G also complains that Lloyds was inconsistent when requesting an interview with him; it 
initially offered a face to face interview,  then withdrew the offer and insisted on a telephone 
interview. It subsequently  told him it did want to speak to him in person  but then decided 
this was no longer  necessary. I feel Lloyds approach  to the interview  was unclear and I 
agree with our investigator that the claim could have  been handled better. I will return  to this 
issue.
Lloyds has said that its only prepared to pay to repair  the accident damage   and not for 
any pre-existing damage or wear to Mr Gs watch. I have looked at the terms and conditions  
within Mr Gs policy and note that, under the heading Settling Claims, Lloyds says as 
follows:  As long as the loss or damage  is covered, we will decide whether to pay the cost of 
repairing or replacing it with a new item in the same form and style if it is lost or damaged 
beyond repair...  It adds:  We will take off an amount for wear  and tear for clothing.
Ref: DRN98157033The terms of the policy appear clear  to me. Lloyds  has accepted  that the damage is covered 
under the policy   and so it then falls to them to decide whether to repair it or replace it with 
a new item.  It hasnt offered to replace the watch with a new one. It therefore follows that, 
under the policy,  it must pay the cost of repairing it. And theres no mention  within  the policy  
that there  will be a deduction made in respect  of wear and tear for an item of jewellery  only 
for clothing. So it follows that the repair must be carried out using a new bracelet. There  is 
no provision I have  seen  within  the policy which enables Lloyds to cover only the cost of the 
damage which occurred  during  the accident.
Lloyds has placed  great emphasis on the pre-loss  condition  of the bracelet of Mr Gs watch. 
In its case notes it suggests that the pre-existing condition could be a contributory factor to 
the bracelet breaking during his fall. However  Lloyds  hasnt  declined  Mr Gs claim on the 
basis that the damage resulted solely from wear  and tear  so in my view, in the light of the 
policy terms and conditions, the general condition  of the bracelet before the accident isnt 
relevant. I have, however, still looked  at whether wear and tear may be a consideration in 
this claim and I have concluded that it isnt. Ill explain why.
I have looked  at Lloyds investigators  comments following a discussion with the jeweller  
who Mr G initially  took his broken watch to. She notes that he described the watch as heavily 
damaged  and confirms  also that: the bracelet was worn  but that it was perfectly  
acceptable to continue wearing. I have spoken  with the same jeweller, who told me the 
bracelet was just worn  and emphasised  it wasnt beyond being safe. He confirmed  none  of 
the links was twisted and described it as serviceable. 
He explained  that when  the manufacturer examines a watch  it is under 3X magnification and 
that, unless a bracelet is new, it will always be described as either worn or very worn.  He 
said that the terms used  on a repair-quotation are not laymans language  and that the 
manufacturer is fastidious about detail, always preferring  to return a watch  in factory-perfect 
condition. He added that the acid test was that the manufacturer agreed to service  and 
return the watch in 2015. He said they wouldnt have agreed to service it at all if they felt the 
bracelet wasnt still serviceable. So it appears  to me that Mr Gs decision  not to replace the 
bracelet when it was serviced was a perfectly  reasonable  one. And its unlikely the wear to 
the strap contributed to the extent of the damage which occurred during Mr Gs accident.
Finally, its worth noting that Mr Gs decision not to replace his watch bracelet when it was 
serviced in 2015  hasnt  resulted in any prejudice  to Lloyds in meeting this claim. Whether  or 
not he had chosen to replace the bracelet in 2015,  the value of this claim would be identical 
 because in either  case  a new bracelet would  be required in order  to carry out effective and 
lasting repairs.
To conclude   based on the policy documents and additional evidence  Ive seen, I think that 
Lloyds should  pay for the repairs to Mr Gs watch in full. 
I also consider that Lloyds has delayed settling this claim without good  reason and has 
caused Mr G unnecessary trouble and inconvenience. As Ive highlighted, Lloyds has been 
very inconsistent in its requests for interviews with Mr G. And it has also placed significant 
emphasis on the pre-loss condition  of his watch even though, under the terms of his policy, 
the value of any wear  and tear shouldnt  be deducted. Im therefore in agreement  with our 
investigator that Lloyds  should increase the compensation it pays  to Mr G to £250.
Ref: DRN98157034my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require Society 
of Lloyds to:
settle Mr Gs claim subject to the remaining terms  and conditions  of the policy.
pay Mr G an additional £100  compensation, to bring the total paid to £250.
Society of Lloyds must pay the total compensation due within 28 days  of the date on which 
we tell it Mr G accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on 
the sums  due from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
 
*If Society of Lloyds  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9815703