K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  with a mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in January 2019. I said I was 
minded not to uphold their complaint, but that as my reasons were a bit different from our 
adjudicators, I wanted to give them  a chance to comment further before I issued  my final 
decision.
Bank of Scotland didnt have anything  further  to add. Mr and Mrs C said,  in summary, I 
should proceed on the basis  of the information  they had already provided.  They  said there  
was a discrepancy on the application forms about  Mr Cs medical information. They  said    
Mr C was unlikely to have  been  covered for his medical condition, which was in remission. In 
those circumstances,  they said it was wrong of Bank of Scotland  to sell them PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
As no new information has been  presented, my view remains the same, that 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should be not upheld.  My reasons are the same as in my 
provisional decision, which I attach.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for the reasons set out in this decision and my 
provisional decision of 18 January 2019,  attached.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN93222462Copy of Provisional  Decision 18 January 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  with a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Halifax  in 1999 and with it PPI. The policy covered
Mr C only for accident,  sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed. As agreement 
couldnt be reached Mr and Mrs Cs complaint comes  to me to decide. They said, in summary, in 
1992, Mr C was diagnosed with a serious  condition. He received treatment between  1992 and 1994 
and was off work for 9 months during that time. They said,  after that, he had to see his GP twice  a 
year to check that his condition was still in remission. This continued  until 2005. Mr C thought  as a 
result, it was likely that if the correct information had been given on his PPI application form, he 
wouldnt have been eligible  for PPI. He said his health condition was disclosed  to the Halifax at the 
time of making  his mortgage and PPI application. He said he didnt complete the boxes  on the 
application form and wouldnt have provided incorrect information  about his health. He said he 
specifically took out the PPI to cover him if he was off work sick, given his earlier diagnosis.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Im minded not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, but my reasons for doing  so are a bit 
different from our adjudicators. My reasons are set out below.
First, Ill deal with the point that Mr and Mrs C make about Mr Cs eligibility to take out the policy. Its 
not in dispute that Mr C met the general conditions  for eligibility, those relating to age and 
employment. But, in addition  the terms and conditions said, to be eligible, you had to be accepted 
for PPI.
At the top of the PPI application form it said:
MORTGAGE  REPAYMENTS  INSURANCE APPLICATION
By completing this application form we will be able to decide if you are eligible for Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance. As a general  guide if you have a residential  mortgage or have applied  for a 
residential mortgage,  are working at least 16 hours per week and do not know of any impending  
unemployment, you should be eligible for Mortgage  Repayments  Insurance.
Theres no suggestion in this statement that Mr Cs earlier medical condition  might lead to him 
being ineligible for PPI. They were applying for a residential mortgage and Mr C was working over 
16 hours per week.
In Section C of the application form, headed Eligibility there are no questions about the consumers  
health. This tends to suggest  that the consumers  health  issues would not affect eligibility.
Questions about the consumers health are found in a later section of the form,  (Section D). That 
section begins by saying:
Ref: DRN93222463Please answer the following  questions in the appropriate box. The details will be held for 
information purposes only and will not affect  your application.
Based on this, it seems  to me that most likely  Mr Cs application  for PPI wouldve been accepted 
even had details of Mr Cs previous health  condition  been included on the form.  So, I think it likely  
that Mr C was eligible to take out the policy.
Mr C completed  and signed a separate PPI application to apply for PPI. This made it clear  that PPI 
was optional. I cant know what was discussed  at the time. But, I think PPI was added because  Mr 
C said he wanted it, knowing  he didnt have to take it.
Halifax recommended Mr C take PPI. So, Halifax had to make sure the policy  was suitable for them,  
as well as giving them  information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so they could  make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. As this was a joint mortgage Ive taken  
into account  Mrs Cs circumstances too, to decide  if the policy was suitable  for their needs.
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for them  based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances when the policy  was sold. Ill explain why.
Mr C said he wouldve  got 12 months worth of sick pay from work. The policy  wouldve paid 
out on top of Mr Cs work benefits. Given that the policy  was protecting their home, I think it 
wouldve been important to them that their mortgage repayments could be met. They 
couldve made repeated claims  on the policy giving them long term protection. They 
couldve used Mrs Cs income  to meet their other  household expenses.
Mr C said he had around 12 months of pay in savings. I cant see that their other means 
made the policy unsuitable for them. The policy wouldve allowed them to use their savings  
to meet their other household  expenses.
I cant  see that it was inappropriate  that the policy was taken out in Mr Cs name  only given 
that he was the principal earner.
Ive read the terms and conditions of the policy very carefully. Mr C was in remission (in 
other words all signs of his condition were gone) and he was working, I cant  see that he 
wouldve been prevented  from making a successful claim if his condition  came back  after 
the start date of the policy.  So, I dont think having more  information  about  the things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected  Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take out the policy.
The cost of the policy (£14.04 per month) was set out in the PPI application Mr C signed. 
The amount  of cover (£264.92 per month) was included in this document too. The policy 
didnt carry interest. They  couldve  cancelled  it at any time without losing out financially. So, 
I think they were given enough information about the cost of the policy to make an informed 
choice about whether they wanted it or not. It was competitively priced  and I cant  see that it 
was unaffordable. I dont think that having better information about the cost of the policy 
wouldve changed their decision to buy it. I think it likely that they were persuaded that it 
offered them valuable protection, in their circumstances.
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy  was sold. But I still 
think they wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if they had been better  advised  and informed as 
the policy  gave them useful protection.  I cant see Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of anything 
that Halifax  may have done wrong.
Ref: DRN93222464my provisional  decision
For these  reasons, Im minded not to uphold this complaint.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9322246