K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a loan he took out in 1999. He wants  it to refund him all the 
money he paid for the policy, plus interest. 
 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that HSBC had mis-sold  PPI to Mr W and didnt recommend that it should give him any 
money back. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman  to review  
his case, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding what to do in Mr Ws case. Ive looked into everything that Mr W and HSBC  have 
told us or sent us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
 
Mr W has told us that HSBC added PPI to his loan without his knowledge, that it didnt give 
him a choice to have  the loan without  the policy and didnt explain that PPI would add extra 
cost to his monthly  repayments.
Mr W took the loan and PPI policy a long time ago and neither he nor HSBC have been able 
to send us any of the application forms or similar paperwork which Mr W may have 
completed or signed. Given the amount of time that has passed, I dont find this surprising. 
But I have seen an example of the type of loan agreement which HSBC says it was using at 
the time.  I think its very likely  that Mr W completed something very similar to this example. 
The example  shows that HSBC required customers to sign a Creditor  Protection  
Declaration to buy PPI. Customers who didnt  want to buy PPI could leave the declaration 
blank. So Im satisfied  that PPI was optional. 
I dont have any reason  to think that HSBC didnt  follow its usual procedure with Mr W and it 
seems unlikely to me that HSBC would have  added PPI to Mr Ws loan without him signing 
one of its declarations.  I think  its more  likely  that HSBC gave Mr W a choice and he chose to 
take PPI by signing such a declaration. I fully accept  that Mr W may no longer remember  
these details, but I dont think that HSBC denied him a choice to apply for his loan with or 
without PPI. 
Mr W paid for the policy by taking an extra loan for the cost of the premium,  on which he also 
paid interest. The example  loan agreement shows how HSBC says it presented the cost of 
this type of policy to its customers. This included  the price  of the premium, the interest 
customers had to pay on it and the total price. It also showed the monthly cost. I think  its 
likely that HSBC did this for Mr W to let him know about the extra cost of PPI. 
Mr W has told us that he applied  for the loan during a meeting at one of HSBCs branches, 
but he cant remember whether HSBC recommended PPI to him. Similarly, HSBC  cant  tell 
us if it recommended PPI to Mr W or sold it to him on an information only  basis. But if 
HSBC did make a recommendation, then it would have had to check that the policy was right 
Ref: DRN97616082for Mr W and tell him about it fairly  and clearly so he could decide  if he wanted it. So, in 
fairness to Mr W, I have  assumed that HSBC did recommend the policy  to him. 
As there are no records of Mr Ws meeting with HSBC, I dont know what  HSBC said to him 
or what questions,  if any, it asked him about  his circumstances and potential need for 
insurance. So Ive looked at the policys features and what I know  about Mr Ws situation at 
the time to see if it was reasonable for HSBC  to recommend PPI to him. 
The policy had eligibility criteria which Mr W met. He seems to have been able to afford to 
pay for it, and not to have been affected by any of its main  exclusions or limitations. Mr W 
has told us that at the time he was self employed, but the policy HSBC sold him didnt make 
it harder for self-employed people to claim  than for people in other types of employment. So I 
dont think that Mr W being self employed made  it unfair for HSBC to recommend its policy  
to him.
Mr Ws loan was expected to run for three years and the policy  was designed  to last for the 
same period.  If Mr W had cancelled the policy early, then he would probably only have  
received a partial refund.  But I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr W was likely to 
cancel the policy before the three years had passed. 
Mr W has said that his wife may have been able to help with his loan repayments if 
necessary and that he may have had some savings he could have used. I accept  that these 
resources may have been helpful  for Mr W, but I dont  think  they meant  that he didnt have  a 
potential need  for PPI. 
Taking everything I have  seen into account,  I think it was reasonable for HSBC  to 
recommend PPI to Mr W. I accept that its quite possible that it didnt explain everything to 
Mr W as well as it should have done.  But, Im satisfied that HSBC gave Mr W a choice about  
the policy, that he wasnt affected  by its main exclusions or limitations, that he had a 
potential need  for the cover and could  afford  the policy. So I dont think that Mr W would  
have decided not to buy the policy even if HSBC had explained everything properly. I dont 
think HSBC mis-sold PPI to Mr W. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9761608