K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001 and then amended  in 2002.  The policy covered  Mr D only. Mr D and Mrs H say 
Yorkshire Building Society,  trading as Chelsea Building Society, mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Mr D and Mrs H first took out PPI following a further advance on their mortgage in 2001. The 
PPI policy  was then amended  in 2002,  when they took out another  further advance.
When selling  the PPI, Chelsea had to make  it clear to Mr D and Mrs H that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr D and Mrs H have said the PPI was added without their knowledge or 
consent.
2001 sale
There isnt very much  information  available about  this sale.  Mr D and Mrs H havent  given us 
much detail about what happened. And Chelsea  hasnt been able to send us any evidence  
from the sale showing Mr D and Mrs H chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that 
has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Chelsea  added the PPI without Mr D and Mrs H 
knowing about it. So I think  its likely Chelsea made  it clear  to Mr D and Mrs H that they had 
a choice about the PPI, and that Mr D and Mrs H chose to take it.
2002 sale
Ive seen a copy  of a PPI amendment form from this sale. This form showed that Mr D and 
Mrs H wanted to increase  the benefit  of the PPI as a result of the further advance on their 
mortgage. It showed the amount of cover they now wanted, and was signed by both Mr D 
and Mrs H.
Based on this, I think Chelsea made it clear to Mr D and Mrs H that they had a choice about 
the PPI. And that Mr D and Mrs H chose to take it.
both sales
Chelsea didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D and Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure they got the information they needed to decide  if 
the PPI was right for them.
Ref: DRN96792662Its possible the information Chelsea gave Mr D and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr D was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy 
couldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr D received. And it wouldve meant Mr D and 
Mrs H didnt need to rely on any savings they had to make  their repayments if Mr D wasnt 
earning. So I think it would have been  useful  for Mr D and Mrs H if something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr D and Mrs Hs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr D and Mrs H off taking it out.
Mr D and Mrs H have said there was a long waiting period on the PPI policy before a claim 
would be paid out, and so Mr D was unlikely  to have been  off work for long enough for the 
policy to pay out. But the PPI was designed to cover  long-term  periods without work. And the 
waiting period on this policy wasnt unusually long in comparison to other PPI policies. So I 
dont think Chelsea needed to specifically highlight the waiting period to Mr D and Mrs H and 
I still think the policy wouldve been useful to them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9679266