K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Mrs A applied  for a credit  card and at that time was sold PPI to protect the 
repayments on her card for up to a year if she was unable to work because of an accident,  
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  The policy also gave her life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
the reasons Ill now explain.
Mrs A says that she applied for her credit  card and the PPI by post. But Barclays  says its 
records show that this sale took place in a meeting in a branch. And its provided a copy of 
Mrs As card application which seems to support this being a branch based  sale, so Ive 
taken this to be the case.
I can see that there is a section on the application  form headed Payment Protection 
Insurance, with yes or no options that can be selected depending on whether Mrs A 
wanted PPI cover or not. And theres  a pre-printed cross next to the yes option on her 
form. 
Weve seen quite  a lot of sales of this sort from around this time. And I know  it was 
Barclays normal sales process  to discuss the consumers requirements with them, 
including whether they wanted PPI cover, before printing off the form with the relevant 
options selected. The consumer would then have  been asked to check  the information  
shown on the form and sign it. 
Mrs A doesnt seem  to have a particularly good recollection of this sale.  And this is 
understandable given  how long ago the sale took place. But I dont think Ive got any strong 
reason for thinking that Barclays didnt  discuss PPI with Mrs A and that it selected  the 
option to provide this cover without her actively agreeing to take it, knowing she had a 
choice.
From the information available  to me, I think that this was an advised  PPI sale.  This means  
that Barclays needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs A. Theres  no record  of 
what was said to Mrs A, or the questions she was asked about her circumstances at the 
time. So I dont know  how Barclays did this. But I dont think  Ive got any reason to think  the 
PPI policy  wasnt suitable. I say this because:
Ref: DRN97698892Mrs A appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs A says that she would have  received  sick pay from her employer at the time, so she 
didnt need the cover that the policy provided.  But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to her sick pay, or any other means she might have had available  to her if she 
wasnt able to work. And these  payments could, potentially, have lasted for longer than 
her other means would  have  done. So I still think she would have valued the extra 
security which  the policy gave her if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs A. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have  cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Barclays also needed to give Mrs A enough  information about the policy  for her to decide if 
she wanted to take it. From what Ive seen, I think the information she received  could  have 
been better than it was. But for much  the same reasons  that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable, I dont  think that better information would have changed  her mind about taking 
it. I still think she would have though it gave her useful  cover at an affordable  cost.
So in summary,  I dont think that Mrs A has lost out by anything that Barclays  may have 
done wrong when it sold her this PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9769889