K821x#15complaint
Mr B acquired a new car in early December  2018, by means of an 18 month hire agreement  
with Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc. He incurred a penalty charge while parking his car in 
mid-December 2018. He complains about  the way Santander handled the payment of this 
charge.
background
first provisional decision
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my first 
provisional decision dated 9 April 2020   a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
second decision. In my first provisional decision, I explained that I disagreed  with our 
investigators view that the complaint should not be upheld. 
Santander agreed with my first provisional decision,  but Mr B disagreed saying:
His appeal was time barred, rather than rejected
The penalty charge was not assigned to him by Santander, as it had the legal right to 
do (it assumed responsibility,  rather than nominating him as in charge of the car)
This meant  that he could not appeal  directly against his penalty charge  and the 
appeal had to be made through Santander, by which time it had already paid the 
charge
Santander failed  to act with sufficient  care and diligence, in the timing  and methods 
of communicating  with him about  his penalty  charge  which  prevented him from 
either appealing, or paying  at the discounted rate 
second provisional decision (dated 21 October 2020)
I reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  evidence  was incomplete, inconsistent  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities   
in other  words, what I considered most likely  to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and wider  circumstances.
Before being told by Santander that the penalty  charge appeal had been unsuccessful, Mr B 
asked how it handled driving offences, which were notified to it (as the vehicle  owner)  but 
committed by hirers  (like him)?  Santander told Mr B that its transfer of liability process  would 
be followed, the result of which  would be re-issue of the notification to the hirer (and possibly 
the re-starting of any time allowances for response).  
I was unable to find references to this process  in the welcome pack sent by Santander to 
Mr B, or in the hire agreement documentation. But, in its final response letter,  Santander had 
asserted that it was unable to transfer  liability to Mr B, for legal  reasons  relating to the type of 
penalty charge  incurred.   
We asked Santander  for further information about its transfer of liability  process,  and why it 
could not be applied to Mr Bs penalty charge? But we received no reply, despite several 
reminders. So, I could  not with certainty either confirm or refute Santanders assertion. 
Although, on the balance  of probabilities, I was unable not to accept the assertion.
Ref: DRN91058492In these circumstances, I was (again on balance)  unable to agree with Mr B that Santander 
had the legal right to assign the penalty to him. I was also unable to agree with Mr B that his 
appeal was time barred. 
As noted in my first provisional  decision, Mr Bs appeal was delayed, but its outcome was 
not affected by that delay. This was because his appeal was rejected on the grounds  that the 
payment made specified an incorrect car registration   and not for any reason connected 
with when the appeal was submitted, or whether or not the charge had already been paid.
 
But I continued to agree with Mr B that Santander  had not acted with sufficient care and 
diligence, in the timing and methods of communicating  with him about his penalty charge. 
For this reason, I also continued  to think that my provisional settlement recommendation is 
correct.
This meant that (on balance) I came to the same conclusions as I reached in my first 
provisional decision, albeit not for identical reasons.
My provisional settlement  recommendation was that Santander should reduce the invoice it 
sent to Mr B by £90, in compensation for the long delay in emailing  him, which  unfairly 
constrained his opportunity to pay his penalty at the lowest  charge.
responses to my second provisional decision
Both Mr B and Santander agreed with my second provisional decision, and with my 
provisional settlement  recommendations.  
my findings
Ive further reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties  have agreed with my second provisional decision and settlement 
recommendations, and I have seen no new information that would lead me to change my 
views.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc to reduce the invoice  it 
sent to Mr B by £90. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.  
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN91058493COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
9 April 2020
complaint
Mr B acquired  a new car in early December 2018, by means of an 18 month hire agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc. He incurred a penalty charge while parking his car in mid-December 
2018. He complains  about  the way Santander handled  the payment of this charge.
background
Mr B says:
He made the correct payment, when parking his car in mid-December  2018  but, when he 
was told about the penalty charge,  he realised that he had entered the wrong registration  
plate
He received by post an invoice for just over £200 from Santander in late February  2019  
Santander had already  paid the penalty charge, and were invoicing him for the costs  of doing 
so, plus an administration charge
He complained to Santander, saying that he should have been told sooner  about  the penalty 
charge (of which  he was previously unaware)  the delayed notification  meant that he was 
unable to pay the discounted basic charge, or even the basic charge, before additional 
charges were applied
Santander sent a final response letter to Mr B in mid March 2019, saying:
It retains a legal responsibility to pay penalty charges on behalf of its customers   but it 
notifies these  charges to customers, to give them the opportunity to appeal  against the 
penalties
It notified  Mr B of his penalty charge by email, when it was notified in January 2019 
It was unable to uphold his complaint, but it wanted to offer him its support, if he wished to 
appeal against  the penalty
Santander helped  Mr B to appeal against the penalty. Notification was later received that the appeal 
had not been upheld, because the payment made specified an incorrect car registration.
Mr B referred his complaint  to us in late March 2019. He told us:
He did not receive an email from Santander in January 2019
He never agreed  to email only contact, and he would have  expected an email  of this nature to 
have been followed  up with postal correspondence
Mr B could have paid the charge directly, so as to avoid  Santanders administration charges, within 14 
days at the £60 discounted rate. But, because the charge was not been paid within 28 days, it was 
referred to a debt collection agency, and Santander was sent a reminder notification.
The agency  applied an additional administration  charge of just over £70. Santander paid the penalty,  
and added a £30 administration charge. This meant the penalty, which could  have been  £60, 
increased to just over £200. And Santander  sent an invoice for this amount to Mr B, by post in 
mid-February 2019.
Santander told us that, in its view, the correct process had been followed. In particular, it felt that:
Emailing Mr B during January 2019, when  it was notified  of the penalty charge,  was 
appropriate  because this was the quickest means of contacting him
When a reminder  notification was received 28 days later, payment of the charge was 
appropriate   
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  
Ref: DRN91058494Our investigator noted Mr Bs concern that Santander had sent him an email (but not a letter as well) 
in January 2019 about  his penalty charge   while it chose to post (and not to email)  its invoice to him 
in February 2019. Our investigator also noted Mr Bs concern that he had never  opted into email 
communications.
Our investigator checked the email address used by Santander, and confirmed it was the same as 
that included by Mr B in his hire agreement application  form  where Mr B had opted out of marketing 
and related email communications.  This opt-out notwithstanding,  our investigator concluded that 
Santander had not done anything wrong, by emailing Mr B about  his penalty charge.
Our investigator noted as well Mr Bs concern that Santander had not acted sooner to mitigate the 
penalty increase from £60 to just over £200. 
Our investigator drew attention to the welcome  pack Mr B received,  when his hire agreement  was 
signed. This made clear that Santander might choose to pay penalty charges, and then to recharge 
along with an administration fee. Our investigator concluded that Santander had appropriately 
decided to pay the penalty  charge, when the reminder notification was received, in order to stop the 
debt escalating further.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators conclusions. And so this complaint was referred for review by 
an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators first conclusion  above (about emailing Mr B), for similar reasons. I also 
agree with our investigator  that Santander acted appropriately, when it decided to pay the penalty 
charge, in order to stop the debt escalating  further.  But I think  that Santander did not act soon enough  
to mitigate the penalty increase from £60 to just over £200.
I find that there was an inappropriate  apparent delay  of 13 days  between Santander being told about 
Mr Bs penalty  charge,  and it passing this information on to him by email. While a short  delay is 
understandable, the charge payable by Mr B was only discounted for 14 days, and so an urgent  email 
would have been appropriate.
Mr B says that he did not receive an email from Santander. But, if he had received the email 
Santander says it sent, he would have had only one day to pay directly  at the discounted  rate  and to 
save the discount  (£60) and Santanders administrative charge (£30).  He might not have paid in this 
way, but I find that Santander unfairly constrained his opportunity to do so. 
Conversely, if Mr B had received Santanders  email, he would have had 15 days to pay at the 
non-discounted rate (£120).  In these circumstances, I do not think that Santander unfairly constrained  
his opportunity to do so. 
I also think  it is fair to say Mr Bs appeal  was delayed, while he was unaware of the penalty charge, 
but the outcome  was not affected by that delay.  This is because his appeal  was rejected on the 
grounds that the payment made specified an incorrect car registration  and not for any reason  
connected with when the appeal  was submitted,  or whether or not the charge  had already been paid.  
My findings  lead me to conclude that Santander should  reduce  the invoice it sent to Mr B by £90, in 
compensation for the long delay in emailing him, which  unfairly constrained his opportunity to pay his 
penalty at the lowest charge.
Ref: DRN91058495my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from 
Mr B or Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc by 8 May 2020, my provisional decision is that I uphold this 
complaint in part.  
My provisional  settlement  recommendation is that Santander should reduce the invoice it sent to Mr B 
by £90, in compensation for the long delay  in emailing him, which unfairly  constrained his opportunity 
to pay his penalty  at the lowest charge.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9105849