K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that a used van she acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with 
Advantage Finance Ltd was mis-represented and not of satisfactory  quality.
background
In October  2018 Miss P entered into a four year hire purchase agreement with Advantage 
Finance for a used van. The van was three  years  old and had a mileage of around 53,000.  
The van was advertised as being  in excellent condition and that it came with a warranty. 
In December 2018 the van began  to make a high pitched whistling noise that got louder with 
acceleration. Miss P says she reported  the problem to the dealership who advised her not to 
drive it as it sounded like a problem with the turbo. The dealership told Miss P to contact the 
manufacturer as the van was covered by a warranty. Miss P did so and the van was 
recovered and taken to a garage. She was also provided with a courtesy  vehicle. The 
garage stripped  down  the vans engine and reported a possible issue with the turbo. 
A few days  later the garage  asked  Miss P to provide the paperwork including  the service 
history. She gave  the garage the paperwork shed received for the van. Miss P was told by 
the garage that the paperwork wasnt sufficient and it wouldnt honour the warranty for the 
van. Miss P says she was told she would have to pay for both the repairs and any future 
vehicle hire while the van was being  fixed.  She had to return the courtesy  car after about one 
week and was left without a vehicle over the Christmas period.
In January 2019 the manufacturer called the dealership and said it wouldnt be repairing the 
van under  the warranty and asked if Miss P could either return the van, have it repaired 
locally to her or if the dealership would  recover the van and arrange  repairs  at a garage of its 
choice. The dealership responded to Miss P by offering to pay £500 towards the repairs.
Miss P says she obtained  independent advice  and then contacted Advantage Finance. 
Advantage Finance said that the van would need  to be independently  inspected  if Miss P 
was complaining about its condition and quality. Miss P says that Advantage  Finance  told 
her this inspection would take three weeks to arrange and that in this time no hire vehicle 
would be provided  to her.
Miss P says that she told Advantage Finance that this delay was unreasonable as she had 
no funds to hire a replacement vehicle and that the van was used for both business and 
pleasure. She said there would be a significant negative  impact on her if she was without the 
van for that long.
Advantage Finance says it told Miss P not to have the van repaired. However, Miss P 
arranged for the van to be fixed.
 . 
Advantage Finance accepted that the van had been incorrectly advertised  as having a 
warranty. It noted that the dealership had offered  to provide a six month  warranty  for the van 
but it accepted  it hadnt been as described  at the point of sale.  Advantage Finance offered to 
cancel the agreement and repay Miss Ps deposit. But it said that as Miss P had got the van 
Ref: DRN94609202repaired when asked  not to she had denied it an opportunity  to determine whether or not 
the fault had been  present  at the point  of sale. It also said as the repairs had been 
completed by a third party it was unreasonable to expect it to accept liability  for that work. 
This meant it was unreasonable to expect Advantage Finance to reimburse Miss P the cost 
of the repairs.
Miss P complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that Miss Ps complaint 
should be upheld.  She said that the fault with the turbo had occurred less than two months 
after Miss P had acquired the van and after it had been driven for around  2,500 miles. It was 
a reasonable expectation  that the components of a vehicle function without significant issue 
or problem  for a reasonable  amount of time. And the invoice from the garage  had said the 
turbo failure  was caused by a mechanical breakdown  and should  not have occurred this 
soon. The investigator said she was satisfied the van wasnt  sufficiently  durable  as a 
reasonable person would expect. 
The investigator said she appreciated Advantage Finance wasnt able to get the van 
inspected independently but didnt  think this would have affected  the outcome of Miss Ps 
complaint. 
The investigator said usually where a vehicle  wasnt of satisfactory quality the finance  
provider, in this case Advantage Finance, were given the opportunity to repair the fault, 
However Miss P had already arranged for this to have happened so it was reasonable for 
Advantage Finance to reimburse her that cost.
The investigator said that Advantage Finance had accepted the van was misrepresented to 
Miss P and that she was entitled to reject the van. And it would be reasonable for Advantage 
Finance to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the collection of the van at no cost to Miss P.
Reimburse Miss P £1,343.35 together with interest for the cost of repairing the turbo 
Reimburse Miss P £348.27  together with interest for the month she was unable to 
use the van
Reimburse Miss Ps deposit of £1,999 together with interest
Remove the agreement and associated information from Miss Ps credit  file.
The investigator noted that Miss P was in arrears on the agreement  and said that these 
could be collected  from her separately.
Advantage Finance disagreed with our investigators  opinion. It said that the investigators 
opinion was unfair. Miss P hadnt given  it sufficient time to investigate whether  the fault with 
the van had been present at the point of sale or not. And it shouldnt be forced to pay for the 
unauthorised repairs  if the fault hadnt  been  proven to have existed at the point of sale.  It 
also said that the van had been second-hand  and this hadnt been taken into account  by the 
investigator. Advantage Finance said that the only evidence about  the fault with the van had 
come from a non-independent source.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me.
Ref: DRN94609203my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that the van was misrepresented to Miss P and that she is entitled to reject  it. 
Advantage Finance says its concerned that Miss P has continued to use the van even 
though she has asked to reject  it. However Im not surprised that she has, as it was her only 
means of transport and her complaint  hadnt  been resolved. The issue about the cost of the 
repairs was still outstanding along  with other  associated costs that not being able to use the 
van had caused.  Miss P is responsible  for paying  for the use of the van during this time and 
Ive seen that the investigator didnt recommend that any of the monthly payments should be 
reimbursed save for the one month  when the van couldnt be driven.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) all products must be of satisfactory 
quality, fit for purpose and as described. When a vehicle is second-hand then its age and 
mileage need  to be taken into account  when assessing whether its of satisfactory quality or 
not.
Miss P was told that the van was in excellent condition and it was three years old and had 
done 53,000 miles.  It does appear there  may be an issue  with the vans services  as the 
manufacturer wasnt happy about  the validity  of the service paperwork it had seen. So its 
difficult to know the true condition of the van.
However although I appreciate that components of vehicles dont last forever and over time, 
with wear and tear, items  will need  to be replaced  I dont think  most people would expect a 
three year old van in excellent condition to require substantial repairs  to its turbo with few 
weeks of taking possession of it. Looking at the mileage I dont think  Miss Ps usage  of the 
van was excessive. Looking at how quickly the van developed a problem I think its 
reasonable to consider there was an issue with its durability.
Under the Act if a fault comes to light within the first six months after taking possession  of a 
vehicle then there is a presumption  that the fault was either present or developing at the 
point of sale and the onus  rests on the retailer (in this case  the finance provider Advantage 
Finance to show that it wasnt. Advantage Finance says that Miss P, by getting the van 
repaired, has prevented it from being  able to do so and thereby disadvantaged  it. It also says 
that the only indication the van wasnt durable  came  from a non-independent source.
Where evidence is missing or inconsistent  then I have to decide what the most likely  thing to 
have happened  is. Miss P experienced a problem with the vans  engine. It went for an 
inspection and a problem with the turbo  was suspected.  Unfortunately the manufacturer  
wouldnt cover  the repairs  due to unacceptable service  paperwork. Miss P says she had no 
choice but to arrange the repairs as she couldnt  wait for an independent  engineer to be 
arranged. She wouldve  been without a van that was being  used  for a business and had 
already been unable  to use it over the Christmas  period resulting in a negative impact  on 
finances. I dont  think her decision in these circumstances was surprising  or unreasonable. I 
think most people in these  circumstances wouldve made the same decision. 
Miss P also says that the advice she was given was that she was entitled to get the van 
repaired if the part was kept for later inspection. I havent seen  any evidence that Advantage 
Finance has asked to see the faulty part but I also havent seen any evidence  this option 
was offered to it.
Ref: DRN94609204But I dont think Advantage Finance has been disadvantaged by Miss P arranging the 
repairs. I think it very unlikely that an independent engineer wouldve found that this fault 
wasnt either present  or developing at the point of sale taking into account the length of time 
Miss P had the van and the amount of miles she had driven  in it.
Advantage Finance has queried the evidence of the fault. I appreciate  the garage that 
carried out the repairs may not have been  truly independent but the manufacturer  had 
earlier identified a potential issue  with the turbo. So Im satisfied that there is sufficient 
evidence that a fault with the turbo existed. I also dont have any evidence that the repair  
invoice was excessive  in the amount charged  for the work.  
So Im satisfied that Miss Ps actions in getting  the van repaired hasnt resulted in unfairness 
to Advantage  Finance. And as Miss P is entitled  to be reject the van then Im satisfied its fair 
that she is reimbursed for the repairs shes paid for. 
Im upholding Miss Ps complaint and Im asking Advantage Finance to now cancel the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay; collect the van; remove  the agreement  from Miss Ps 
credit file, reimburse her the deposit,  reimburse  for the one month she was unable to use the 
van and reimburse  her the costs of the repairs carried  out in January 2019..
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Miss Ps complaint. Im asking Advantage  
Finance Ltd to do the following: 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the collection of the van at no cost to Miss P.
Reimburse Miss P £1,343.35 for the cost of repairing the turbo together with interest 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement 
Reimburse Miss P £348.27  for the month  she was unable  to use the van together 
with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement 
Reimburse Miss Ps deposit of £1,999 together with interest at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement 
Remove the agreement and associated information from Miss Ps credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9460920