K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  (Halifax)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs K bought the policy  at a meeting in 1993  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
Mrs K wasnt  in paid employment at the time and Mr K was employed as a production worker 
and had been there 2 years. Hes told us he was entitled to redundancy pay and less than 
six but at least three months full sick pay. Mr and Mrs K have told us they didnt have any 
other means, like savings, with which to pay the mortgage if Mr K couldnt work.
Mr K has told us of an injury he had involving a broken bone  more than 25 years  before the 
sale. Hes also told us he was in hospital  for two weeks  with a health  issue  more  than ten 
years before the sale and that this issue did recur, but he cant  recall when. Hes also told us 
of a health issue he had treated more than eight years before  the sale, including a course  of 
treatment that took six months. Hes told us he never missed  work as a result of that issue 
and that the issue wasnt  affecting  him at the time of the PPI sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr K for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £200 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage costs  in the event of a successful  claim and cost £13.80 a month at the time. 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2006. Mr and Mrs Ks 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  Mr and Mrs Ks 
representative says,  in summary:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs K 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs K and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN92087142The information Mr and Mrs K received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN92087143I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ks 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs K and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs K know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The mortgage application Mr and Mrs K 
signed had a PPI section  that asked whether they wanted the PPI  and said the question 
Ref: DRN92087144could be answered  either  Y or N. It said if the answer was Yes, the appropriate PPI form 
should be completed. All this makes  me think it likely the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs K 
at the mortgage  meeting as something they could  say yes or no to. On Mr and Mrs Ks the 
answer given was Y, so it looks from this like they said yes to the cover, knowing they 
could say no instead if they wanted.
Also, Mr K did sign the appropriate PPI form  a Mortgage Payments Protector Application. 
So I think he agreed to the cover. The form was filled out with his details, showing he was 
the one to be covered, and with details  of the cover. The separate form makes  me think it 
likely Mr and Mrs K were  aware the PPI was something separate from the mortgage.  Also,  
what the mortgage application  said about the PPI form makes  me think  Mr and Mrs K were 
made aware  that the form for the PPI should  be completed if they wanted the PPI  and they 
likely wouldve known that if they didnt want the PPI, the form for it shouldnt be completed.
Mr and Mrs K have  said Halifax  told them they had to take the PPI to take the mortgage. 
Theyve also said they wouldnt have taken the PPI had they not been rushed or pressured.  I 
give their recollections some weight, but I bear in mind also that they were  set out for us well 
over 20 years after the sale  so it wouldnt  be surprising if Mr and Mrs K didnt vividly  recall 
all the details of what happened. Also, if Mr and Mrs K are saying they were led to believe 
they didnt have a choice  about taking the PPI, I dont find this supported  by the paperwork  
we have from the time of the sale, as this does present  a choice  as discussed  above.
With all Ive said above in mind  given also how long ago the sale was  Mr and Mrs Ks 
recollections arent on their own enough to make me think they werent given a choice about 
the PPI or were pressured  into it  and I havent anything else to make  me think this. Taking  
everything into account, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs K knew the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure  but it would  be understandable if they didnt recall 
all the details now, given  how long ago the sale was.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax and Mr and Mrs K agree advice  was provided during this sale. This means Halifax  
had to advise  Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy 
was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what was discussed in the meeting  exactly, but what  I have suggests Halifax  
took some  steps  to establish whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs K. For example, Halifax had some  information about  Mr and Mrs Ks financial 
circumstances from their mortgage application   like details of their employment  statuses, 
Mr Ks income and his length of service.  Also,  the PPI application form Mr K signed had 
established he wasnt aware of any impending unemployment, wasnt on a fixed term 
contract and hadnt  seen  a doctor  in the previous 36 months  other than for minor illness.  
But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish 
Mr and Mrs K had a need for it. For example, Ive nothing to show that Halifax asked Mr K 
what redundancy or sickness benefits  his employer  provided.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs K given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN92087145While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I do think  its more  likely  than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs K had a need for the cover.  Even allowing for Mr Ks work sick pay and 
redundancy benefits, its likely  Mr and Mrs K would suffer  a fall in income if Mr K were 
unable to work for an extended period due to sickness  or unemployment. The PPI 
benefit wouldve  helped  Mr and Mrs K manage  the consequences  and at what  could be 
a difficult time if Mr K were unemployed or too sick to work.  Also,  Mr K was the only 
wage earner at the time, so such a fall couldve put Mr and Mrs Ks finances under strain 
 and they didnt have  any savings  to fall back on.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs K. There  
was nothing about Mr Ks employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for them to claim. Also, although  Mr K has mentioned a number of health issues  hed had 
before the sale, Ive nothing to suggest  hed been advised or treated by a doctor for any 
of these in the three years before the policy start - bearing  in mind  also that his PPI 
application form was ticked  to say he hadnt seen a doctor  in that time other than for 
minor illnesses. So, based on what I have, Mr K didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions that the policy terms mightve excluded.
-Benefits would only be paid for a maximum of 12 months for each unemployment claim, 
and 24 months for disability, but the policy still provided valuable  cover in Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances given  the role the policy benefit  could play in helping  them  if Mr K couldnt 
work for an extended time, Mr Ks position as sole wage earner, the fact the PPI helped 
protect the payments on the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Ks home and the potential  
consequences if Mr and Mrs K were to have  become unable  to make the payments on a 
loan secured against their house.
-The monthly cost of the PPI appears  to have been affordable  for Mr and Mrs K and Mr K 
met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
c
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what it was 
recommending to them and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that advice 
and take the policy. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs K were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments if Mr K 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) because  I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs K wouldve taken  the PPI without  any sense  of what it was for. 
Also, their mortgage  application form called the PPI Accident, sickness and unemployment 
Insurance and the application  form Mr K signed for it called it Mortgage Payments 
Protector  which would  also have given an idea of what the policy  was for.
I also think it likely Mr and Mrs K were told what the policy premium and monthly benefit 
would be, because the PPI application form Mr K signed set these out. But the evidence  
Ref: DRN92087146from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient information about  the 
policy exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs K agreed to take it. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs K, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs K all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ks representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ks. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ks representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs K have  suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs K? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs K. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  While  Im not persuaded 
Halifax took the steps it should have done to establish whether the policy  it recommended  
was suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I have found  the policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs K have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs K would have acted differently or whether they would have taken the 
policy in any event. Mr and Mrs K say they wouldnt  have taken it and believe I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN92087147Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs K had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean, based on what I have, I think that when Halifax advised  Mr and Mrs K there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would help protect their mortgage payments if Mr K 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. As 
Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs K were given about  the cost and the 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions,  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs K thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  for which Mr K had been advised 
or treated by a doctor in the three years before the policy start; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr K wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The policy would pay to help protect  payments for up to 12 months for unemployment 
and up to 24 months for disability, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.   
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs K pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on cover,  when coupled with other shortcomings  in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs K from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr K was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs K should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr K wouldve been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions  he was in permanent employment and although  the policy would  
exclude claims for health issues hed had advice or treatment from a doctor for in the three 
years before the start,  from what I have  Mr K hadnt  had any such  treatment (unless  for 
something minor). So, I think Mr and Mrs K still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for Mr K for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs K might  reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely Mr K wouldve expected to 
Ref: DRN92087148be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs K from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs K, in their circumstances, 
still had some good reasons to take it.
To make a disability claim, Mr K needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected. 
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs K any claim they made would be limited  to 12 months  
for unemployment and 24 for disability. This may have differed from what they expected and 
mightve hoped for. But Mr K wouldve received  full sick pay for less than even 12 months 
and his redundancy entitlement  was also likely  significantly  less than 12 months  income. In 
those circumstances,  I consider it likely Mr and Mrs K wouldve still thought a policy that paid 
for up to 12 months for unemployment and 24 for disability, would be of benefit  and would 
help them manage the consequences  were Mr K unable to work in the circumstances the 
policy covered. The PPI allowed for multiple  claims to be made, could help Mr and Mrs K 
reduce their outgoings  and help them ensure their home was not placed at risk  and at what 
could be a difficult time for them if Mr K were unemployed or too sick work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs K would still have taken  the policy. It was suitable  for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr K were made redundant, or unable  to work due to accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs K would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs K would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs K believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN92087149Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs K in the position they wouldve been in had 
they not bought the policy.  Thats because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have 
taken the policy,  Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more  likely than not they wouldve 
still taken it had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the PPI they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs K compensation,  as that would put them in a 
better position than they wouldve been in had everything happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs K think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1993 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ks representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs K and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs K in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9208714