K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that this card and PPI were taken out during a meeting. Mr P doesnt  
think that Halifax made a recommendation that he take PPI. Halifax thinks that it did make  a 
recommendation. Based on what Ive seen, Ive considered that Halifax  did make a 
recommendation to take PPI. 
This means  not only did Halifax had to give Mr P good enough information about the PPI, 
but they also had to take reasonable steps  to check that the policy was right for Mr P when 
making their recommendation. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  I've seen copies of some  of the paperwork  completed  as part of 
this sale, including  a copy of Mr Ps credit  card application form.
On the application form theres  an option  for PPI and an X has been typed in the 
box for this option. As this sale took place in a meeting where Halifax were making a 
recommendation, I think that its more likely than not that a discussion  took place 
about the PPI and the X was typed to reflect what Mr P had decided. 
Mr P has also signed the overall form to agree to everything on the form. Ive 
carefully considered  what Mr P has said about not being aware that the PPI was 
being added. 
Although I think that its more likely  than not that the PPI was sold after Mr P had 
decided to take it out - as Ive described above,  Ive also considered what if the PPI 
had been added without Mr P knowing?
But it would have  appeared  on his monthly credit  card statements when he had an 
outstanding monthly  balance.  I think  that Mr P would  reasonably have questioned 
with Halifax  much earlier than he did, why he was paying for PPI if he hadnt been 
aware of taking it out. But I havent  seen evidence that he did and the PPI remained 
on the account for some time after it was taken out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
Ref: DRN91289362was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means of making his repayments. Mr P has told us that he had some 
savings. But based  on the value of the savings and Mr Ps income  from his salary at the time 
of sale, this PPI policy  could have paid out for longer  than Mr Ps savings likely  would  have 
lasted  if he was relying  on them to replace his income. So I still think  that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy was right for him.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  
doesnt need to refund everything Mr P paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will make  arrangements to pay Mr P now Ive 
issued my final decision. Its possible that theyve  already done  this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9128936