K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs H say Progressive Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think its likely Progressive made  it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have  to take out the 
PPI and they chose  to take it out. I say this because they were sent the PPI application 
form in the post. And although  they say they were told the PPI was a normal part of the 
mortgage and to fill in the form and return it, Progressive has given us the leaflet it says 
was sent with the application form which makes it clear it isnt something they had to 
have. 
Progressive didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Progressive gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
- so it would  have been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put 
them off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H has said - including what they have said about 
the benefit of the policy being more than their mortgage repayments. It does appear there 
was an issue where the premium increased  at some  point and Progressive has confirmed 
this was an error. It says this was identified and the account corrected in 2014 when the 
policy was cancelled.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether 
Progressive treated them unfairly. 
Progressive has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Progressive has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think Progressive treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN93673632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9367363