K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Experian took too long to remove incorrect  searches from her credit 
file. She says that this impacted on her ability to get credit and resulted in her losing interest 
on some  investments.
background
Mrs O has been represented by her husband  Mr O throughout this complaint. For ease I will 
refer to Mrs O in this decision although I recognise that many of the actions may have been  
Mr Os.
When Mrs O applied for a mortgage  the mortgage  company  performed  four hard searches 
when only one was necessary. Mrs O says this meant her credit score  reduced.
Shed intended to take out a couple  of 0% interest  credit cards to fund some of the expenses 
related to her house move but found  she couldnt and therefore had to resort to trading in her 
premium bonds. She says that these bonds  wouldve been invested if she hadnt been 
forced to use them  and that shes  therefore  not been  able to earn interest on them.
Experian offered  Mrs O £200 to compensate her for their mistake. They  accepted that the 
searches had been incorrectly held on file for too long due to a technical issue.
But Mrs O was not satisfied and she referred  her complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
agreed that it had taken  Experian too long to remove the searches but he didnt  think  Mrs O 
had provided sufficient evidence shed been  applying for 0% credit and he couldnt  find a 
record of institutions  that were offering  such a deal at the time. He explained that even if 
Mrs Os application for 0% credit had been  clear;  her acceptance for the credit cards 
wouldnt have been as providers approval  processes vary. So he didnt think Mrs O had 
evidenced a loss of interest.  Overall, he thought Experians offer of £200 was reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience that had been experienced and he didnt think they 
needed to take any further action.
But Mrs O disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs O but Ive not been persuaded that Experian  need to take any 
further action.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN90110282Theres no dispute here that Experian held the spurious searches on file for too long.  The 
issue that appears to be important to decide is what the impact of this delay has been on 
Mrs O. 
Im not persuaded that there has been  a financial loss as a result  of the issue. Ive noted that 
since the investigator provided  his view, Mrs O has provided links that she says 
demonstrates 0% interest credit cards were  available. But Ive not been provided with 
evidence that a firm application was made and rejected so I cant say that Mrs O missed out 
on alternative free credit to pay the costs related to her house purchase. Mrs O has 
explained that she didnt want to make  a firm application because it would impact  her credit 
file further. So she said shed completed soft searches to establish an application would be 
fruitless. But its clear no actual application  was made.
Its evidently been a distressing issue for Mrs O she appears to be financially astute and 
aware of the importance of keeping her credit file as clean as possible. But I think Experians 
offer of £200 compensation was sufficient to recompense her for the distress  and 
inconvenience shes experienced in this instance. I dont think  its necessary for them to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9011028