K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about a claim he made on his commercial legal expenses insurance 
policy provided by DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance Company Limited  (DAS). 
background
Mr A is unhappy because DAS declined cover  for him to pursue a dispute  with a tenant  for 
damage caused to his property. 
DAS declined the claim based on legal  advice that there were  no reasonable prospects of 
Mr A recovering damages against  the tenant  because the tenant  didnt have the means to 
meet any awards  that might be made against  him.
 
Mr A says the tenant has unlawfully  transferred  his assets to a relative  and that DAS should  
cover his costs in taking  legal action to revert the transfer back. He also says that once this 
happens his claim  against the tenant  will have reasonable prospects of recovery.  
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. She said DAS was entitled 
to rely on the legal advice it had received in respect  of the prospects of recovery of the claim. 
She also said that DAS didnt need to cover  a claim for reversing the transfer of assets from 
Mr As tenant to another.  Mr A doesnt agree. He says that DAS deliberately  delayed  dealing 
with his claim and that he has obtained new advice to suggest the reversal of assets is 
possible, if a court order is issued. Our investigator said that shed looked at everything up to 
the point that Mr A had made  his complaint to this service and based her conclusions on 
that. She directed Mr A to refer any new information  about his claim to DAS directly. 
Because Mr A remains of the view that DAS should  cover his claim, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
As complaint. Ill explain why.
For claims such as the one Mr A wishes to bring,  its a requirement of the policy  that its 
always more likely  than not that an insured person will recover  damages  or obtain any other  
legal remedy which DAS have agreed  to. It wouldnt be prudent for a privately paying person 
to pursue a claim where the prospects  of recovering the sums  claimed  arent reasonable. 
For the same reason  we wouldnt expect an insurer to fund a claim in these circumstances. 
In this case DAS has obtained legal advice  from suitably  qualified lawyers that supports 
prospects of recovery arent reasonable. Mr A hasnt obtained anything  to contradict this in 
the form of a considered legal opinion that makes me think  DAS need to do anything more. 
So I dont  think DAS have  done  anything wrong  by refusing to cover  his claim. 
Mr As claim is for recovery of damages. I know he feels that his prospects of recovery would 
be much  improved if DAS were to fund a claim that would  put the tenant in a stronger 
financial position - but thats not something  the policy covers, nor is it intended  to cover.   
Should Mr A wish to pursue that claim himself  and the obtain  a considered legal  opinion  
confirming that his prospects of recovery are reasonable, then Id expect  DAS to reconsider 
their position. But until then I dont think DAS need  to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN90771792I know Mr A has said that DAS have caused  delays. Having considered everything I dont 
think DAS unreasonably delayed dealing with Mr As claim. And theres nothing in the timing 
of their obtaining advice or corresponding with Mr A that makes  me think  this was the case. I 
accept however that it took them longer to deal with his complaint than Id expect. DAS have 
offered to pay Mr A £100 in respect of this. I wont be making any findings about  this as this 
isnt something Mr A was unhappy about when  he brought his complaint to us. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  against  DAS Legal Expenses  
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9077179