K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about Nationwide Building Societys handling  of an incoming 
international CHAPS  (or SWIFT) payment to their account with Nationwide.
They say Nationwide  failed  to help them enough to find out why the payment hadnt arrived 
in their account. This caused them financial losses. 
background
The events took place in and around  October 2017.  The payer of the SWIFT  payment,  of 
which Mr and Mrs O were the intended  beneficiaries, lived abroad and used a foreign bank 
(the sending bank) to initiate the payment.  The purpose of the payment was to facilitate the 
purchase in the UK of a property by Mr and Mrs O. 
The payment went  first to an intermediary  bank, in this case  HSBC, whose job was then to 
forward the payment  to Nationwide. 
The payment was attempted twice, and both times  it failed to reach Mr and Mrs Os account. 
Mr O had a number of phone calls with Nationwide trying to find out where the money was. 
Nationwide was unable  to tell Mr O why the payment hadnt reached his and Mrs Os account. 
In the end, Mr and Mrs O used another bank to complete the SWIFT payment. The property 
purchase was delayed and Mr and Mrs O had to pay interest  to the vendor for late 
completion of around £530. Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide should pay them  that sum as 
compensation as well as losses  from currency movements and a duplicate fee incurred for 
the successful  SWIFT  payment.
The essence  of Mr and Mrs Os complaint is that Nationwide  should have done more to help 
them understand why the payment  had failed, in particular by contacting HSBC. As 
Mr and Mrs O see it, Nationwide took far too long (four months) to find out why the payment 
didnt reach  their account. They say Nationwide was trying to avoid  responsibility  by continually  
referring to how long it could take for an incoming  payment to appear on the account.
Nationwide upheld Mr and Mrs Os complaint up to a certain point and offered them  a total of 
£200 compensation, first £100  and then a further £100 for the additional delay in confirming 
the reasons for the failed  payment. These  reasons were said to be a lack of complete and 
meaningful data as required under the Wire Transfer Regulations. 
Nationwide said it hadnt acted wrongly in rejecting  the SWIFT payment, but it accepted it 
had caused Mr and Mrs O inconvenience  by not being able to confirm  the whereabouts of 
and rejection of the attempted payment on two occasions. 
Nationwide said in its final response to Mr and Mrs O: 
Our SWIFT Team have confirmed from your screenshots, these  payments  in 
question had reached Nationwide. However,  these payments had been  stopped  
by an internal team [at Nationwide] , as the incoming payments  had failed the 
Wire Transfer  Regulations  for SWIFT payments, and as such we had been asked 
to return this to the sending  bank.
Ref: DRN91850752As these were rejected  by an internal  team prior to reaching our SWIFT Team, 
we wouldnt have been able to confirm  that these payments were received, 
however, I apologise  for the inconvenience caused  as you werent aware of the 
location of your payment. 
The sending bank  shouldve made  you aware the reason why these payments 
were being  rejected and to ensure all required information was provided on the 
SWIFT sent to Nationwide.
Our investigator ultimately  concluded Nationwide had paid enough compensation for its 
admitted service failings.  She said Nationwide wouldnt have been able to contact HSBC  as 
this was the responsibility of the sending  bank. She didnt conclude Nationwide should 
compensate Mr and Mrs O for the interest  paid for late completion of the property purchase.  
She thought  Nationwide  had said enough in phone  conversations to make it clear there 
might be a delay in the payment reaching  the account in the normal course. And the second  
attempted payment had been  made  very close to the contractual completion date. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said:
Nationwide  was clearly able to contact  HSBC.
The sending bank  made several  fruitless attempts to find out from HSBC why the 
payment had failed.
Nationwide  used  HSBC as an intermediary bank  and should take some 
responsibility for a service that it had sub-contracted out.
In the case of both failed transactions, the money was quickly returned to the sending  
bank, so the location of the money  was never in question.  It was the reason for the 
rejection that was paramount. Mr O contacted Nationwide  because  he specifically 
wanted to find out the reason for the rejection. He told Nationwide  several times the 
intermediary bank  was the only party that could explain the rejection.
Mr and Mrs O left the second attempted payment until close to the completion date 
as they were trying without success to find out why the first attempt failed,  and they 
didnt want to risk another failure.
In summary, the sending bank did as much  as it could to find out why the payment 
failed, but it hit a brick wall with HSBC. Nationwide simply refused to help 
Mr and Mrs O as their customers and washed its hands of the issue,  firstly by 
blaming the sending bank and secondly  by claiming  it had no means  of contacting  
HSBC on Mr and Mrs Os behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O but I 
too think £200 is enough compensation  from Nationwide for what  happened  in this case.
Ref: DRN91850753Theres no doubt that Nationwide made mistakes. Nationwide has admitted this. The 
question is whether Nationwide should be held responsible for the financial losses  that 
Mr and Mrs O have claimed.  This in turn raises  two further questions:
Did Nationwides mistakes cause  the financial losses? In other words, if 
Nationwide hadnt  made the mistakes, would the losses have been avoided?
In all the circumstances of the case,  would it be fair to require Nationwide  to be 
held responsible for the financial losses?
The first question is debatable. Its important to be clear about the extent or scope of 
Nationwides mistakes, which depends  on the extent or scope of Nationwides duty. The 
latter was to take reasonable care to answer  Mr and Mrs Os questions correctly. Nationwide  
didnt have a duty to ensure the payment succeeded, whether on time or not. Nationwide  
had no power over what the sending bank did and over whether the sending bank provided 
the necessary  information for the payment to succeed.
Theres also the question  whether Nationwide,  even if it acted  with all reasonable care, 
would have ascertained quickly enough  the reasons for the failure of both payment attempts. 
That would have  depended on HSBC and/or the sending bank providing the necessary 
information to Nationwide  on time,  when  those other banks apparently failed to do that as 
between themselves.
But the second question leads me to conclude in any event that Nationwide has, in all the 
circumstances, done enough in terms of paying compensation. I say this because I think it 
would go too far to hold Nationwide fully responsible for the due performance of a financial 
transaction that depended on a payment made into Mr and Mrs Os account, when 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for the ordering or the timing  of the payment or for ensuring  
the payment was made correctly. In light of that, I think  that the contribution by Nationwide of 
£200 towards the compensation  for what Mr and Mrs O suffered  in this case, is enough. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided Nationwide Building Society has paid or offered  to pay 
enough compensation to Mr and Mrs O in respect  of their complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9185075