K820x#14Complaint
Ms Y complains  that Nationwide Building  Society wont  refund  disputed cash withdrawals 
made from her account. 
Background
Ms Y says that 12 fraudulent cash withdrawals totalling £2,810  were  carried  out without her 
consent between  2 May and 4 June 2018.  
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute.
Ms Y explained that at the time of the transactions she wasnt  in the UK and was overseas 
visiting her family. And didnt return to the UK until 6 June 2018. Shes said that she hasnt 
given anyone her bank card or PIN. Ms Y says the last genuine  transaction she made was 
on 30 April 2018, when  she withdrew  £50 on the same day she travelled to the airport.  
Ms Y says she wasnt  monitoring her account whilst she was overseas. And she left her 
bank card in a cupboard inside her home address whilst she was away.  Ms Y says that she 
has never disclosed her PIN to anyone else. And only discovered  the fraudulent transactions  
when she returned  from her trip and checked  her bank  statements. 
Ms Y says she cant  explain how someone else was able to obtain  her PIN details as she 
has never made a record of it. Shes  also confirmed that no one else, apart from her letting 
agent, has a spare set of keys to her home  address. And only a neighbour was aware she 
was on holiday.   
Ms Y has said that on her return from holiday there  was no evidence that her home had 
been broken into. And her bank card was still in the place shed left it. Shes also said that 
she hadnt given  her keys to anyone or asked  anyone  to look after her home whilst she was 
away. So, she cant explain how someone else was able to gain access  to her home, take 
her card and know her PIN details.
Ms Y says as a result  of the transactions shes been left out of pocket and fallen into 
financial difficulty. And been served  with an eviction  notice as she couldnt keep up with her 
rent. 
Nationwide investigated  and decided not to refund the disputed  transactions.  It concluded 
that Ms Y had probably allowed someone else to make the withdrawals. They  said:
Ms Ys genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
Ms Y hasnt offered a plausible  explanation  as to how someone else was able to gain 
possession of Ms Ys bank card and PIN details 
as this was Ms Ys main account,  its unclear  why she wasnt contacted for important 
missed bill payments
the funds were withdrawn over several weeks which is unusual for a fraudster
there were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
its not clear how Ms Y funded her stay overseas when it seems she had only taken 
out £50 from her account the day she left the UK
Ref: DRN97199062Ms Y disagreed with Nationwides decision.  In response she said that her parents had 
funded her trip overseas,  so she hadnt  needed to access her account  whilst she was away. 
And she was contacted  by one of her utility companies about a failed direct  debit whilst  she 
was on holiday.  
Our investigator looked into Ms Ys complaint  and didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she thought that it was most  likely the transactions had been carried  
out by someone  known  to Ms Y  and someone who knew Ms Ys PIN. So, our investigator 
concluded Ms Y had failed with intent to look after her security details. 
Ms Y disagreed with the investigator. She said that she hadnt given her card or PIN to 
anyone. She pointed  out that she had never  been  to the areas  where the ATM withdrawals  
were made. And maintains that she never  made the transactions. 
As Ms Y didnt agree,  its been referred to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why below. 
Nationwide can hold Ms Y liable  for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not she failed with intent to look after her security details. 
Im satisfied from the technical  evidence that Ms Ys genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But I also need to think about how a fraudster obtained 
Ms Ys card and PIN without Ms Ys knowledge.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide  to conclude  she failed 
with intent to look after her security details.  I say this because:
Ms Ys genuine card has been used with the correct PIN
Ms Y has provided evidence that at the time of the withdrawals she wasnt in the UK. 
So, I accept she didnt  make  the withdrawals herself.  Someone  else did, but they 
used her card and PIN
theres no obvious opportunity for someone  to obtain both Ms Ys card and PIN
Ms Y has said that she has never disclosed her PIN to anyone  else.  And has never  
recorded it anywhere
its unlikely that whoever  had Ms Ys card could have guessed the PIN especially as 
Ms Y has confirmed the PIN hasnt  changed and was issued by the bank. So, it 
wasnt easy to guess
Ms Ys explained that no one had access to her home where  her card was kept
Im unable  to see a convincing explanation for how an unknown  third party could  
have obtained  her PIN
the fraudulent  transactions dont  follow a typical pattern of fraudulent  use. They  are 
spread over several weeks. This is unusual  and would also mean  the fraudster ran 
the risk that Ms Y could have become aware of the transactions  and alerted the bank 
funds were withdrawn from the account on days credits were  received but no balance  
enquiries were made. Therefore, it would  appear  the person making the transactions 
was fully aware of the credits being applied. And Ms Y hasnt provided an 
Ref: DRN97199063explanation how someone else would have  been  aware of the regular activity  of her 
account
Ms Y says when  she returned from holiday on 6 June 2018, her card was still in the 
cupboard. She then said shed  cut up the card.  However, balance  enquiries were 
made on 6, 7 and 8 June 2018  using the card. So, its unlikely the card was in the 
cupboard or had been destroyed as it was still being  used
In summary,  I think its most unlikely that whoever made the payments had the card without 
Ms Ys knowledge. I think its likely too that Ms Y told them what  the PIN was. I say this 
because theres no plausible explanation for how someone else would have  known this 
information. So, whilst I accept that Ms Y didnt make the payments  herself,  I think  Ms Y has 
failed with intent  to look after her security  details. And shes  breached the terms and 
conditions of her account. It follows that Nationwide is entitled to hold Ms Y liable  for the 
disputed transactions.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9719906