K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited obtained a County Court Judgment  
(CCJ) for a debt she says shes already settled. She wants  the CCJ set aside and the entry 
removed from her credit file.
background
Miss C tells us that several years ago she fell into financial  difficulty.  As a result she says a 
CCJ was issued for a debt she owed to a company Ill call V. She says this was settled in 
May 2012 and a certificate of satisfaction issued. Miss C tells us shes  now become aware  of 
a CCJ made  against her in May 2017.  She says this relates to the same debt that was 
previously repaid. She says she didnt receive notice of the court hearing as shed moved 
address.
Capquest told us that it bought this debt in November 2010. It says a payment arrangement 
was agreed but subsequently cancelled by Miss C - although she later made  two payments. 
It said it had been  unaware of any address  change  and had issued the court  claim to the last 
known address it had for Miss C. And it said it could not find any record of previous legal 
action being taken in relation to this account.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 April 2019. I said that I was not 
minded to uphold  the complaint as I did not have  the power to set aside a CCJ.
Both parties  have since replied and I thank them for their responses.  Capquest has said it 
had nothing to add. Miss C expressed  her disappointment at my provisional view.  She said 
she thought that - whilst  the CCJ couldnt be proved to relate to the older  debt - I hadnt 
taken into account  the lack of correspondence  from Capquest. And that as a result  shed  
been unable  to defend  herself against  the CCJ. 
Ill deal with these  points in more detail  in my final decision  below - but as Ive not been  
provided with any further evidence  Im not minded to change  my provisional  view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss C has found herself in this situation. It must have been an unwelcome 
surprise to learn about the CCJ which was made in 2017. Particularly when  she believed 
shed already repaid the debt.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. And where  evidence is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is 
here - I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide 
what is the most likely  explanation  to account  for whats happened.
Its also important that I should  emphasise  that this service can only issue decisions - and 
require businesses to take actions - which fall within the range of powers  weve been given. 
For reasons Ill explain  later this limitation  is highly relevant to my decision here.
Ref: DRN99527102Having looked  at the evidence, I think there  has been some degree of misunderstanding 
between the parties,  and this service, about  both the sequence and factual circumstances of 
events. This is understandable, as several years have elapsed  since the occurrences - 
which eventually led to the current position  - first occurred.
The evidence Ive seen  shows Miss C had opened two catalogue  accounts  - with V and L. 
Whilst owned by the same  parent  group, the businesses are run as separate entities. And 
whilst both Capquest and V have been  involved in different aspects of accounts  held by Miss 
C - this has not always been at the same  time.  For various reasons, Capquest and Miss C 
have also not been in regular contact. And so there  are gaps in the evidence which is 
available to me.
Capquest purchased one of the accounts, from V, in November 2010. The balance  at the 
time was £545.36. This is the account  for which it eventually  secured a CCJ in May 2017. 
That judgment was in the sum of £520.17.
On 15 May 2012 Miss C obtained a certificate of satisfaction (record of a settled debt)  in 
respect of a CCJ which had been made  in October 2011. This related to a debt in the 
amount of £362.60.  Theres  no direct evidence that the CCJ relates to the account  held by L 
- but records  show that account was closed in May 2012 with no outstanding balance. So 
whilst its possible  the two events  might be coincidental, it seems more  likely that they are 
linked.
It was Miss Cs belief that the two CCJs relate to the account she held with V. And she 
considered that - in obtaining  the 2017  judgment  - Capquest had acted in a way which  
amounted to an abuse of court process.  So she asked Capquest  to agree to set aside the 
order by consent.  And when it declined to do so she complained to us.
To set aside  the judgment of a court involves a very specific  process,  which is set out in the 
Civil Procedure Rules (CPR). As Miss C has made reference to these, I neednt go into great 
detail as shes obviously aware of them.
But an application to set aside a CCJ can only be dealt with by a court - its not something  
over which this service has any jurisdiction. And the issues  which Miss C raised  in response 
to my provisional decision - regarding  the lack of correspondence and the resultant inability 
for her to defend the proceedings - are matters  relevant to whether the CCJ should be set 
aside.
So I can assure Miss C I have not ignored  these aspects. But for the reasons Ive explained 
Im not able to take any action about these matters which would assist her.
It still remains open to her to make  a set aside application to the court.  Although I accept she 
would face considerable  difficulty given she now appears to accept there  is no way she can 
show the old debt - to which the certificate of satisfaction refers  - relates  to the same  debt as 
the CCJ. And without  such proof its unlikely a set aside application would succeed - given 
the requirement to show a real prospect of successfully defending the claim.
Although this service  cannot deal directly with the issue  of a set aside  application, I can look 
at whether or not I think Capquest  has acted  fairly.  That includes considering whether it had 
reasonable grounds in the first place for seeking  to enforce the debt by making the 
application which resulted in the CCJ.
Ref: DRN99527103The available evidence does not support Miss Cs contention that the certificate of 
satisfaction and the CCJ of 2017  relate to the same  debt.  If anything, the evidence would 
lead me to think that different debts were involved. Ive discounted  the fact that the two court 
case references are different - I dont think this is persuasive evidence that the accounts are 
different. If the application in 2017 had been  mistaken - and Im not making any finding it was 
- the court would have issued a different case reference anyway, as the applications were 
made six years apart.
Ive seen evidence  of two separate accounts in the name of Miss C. The certificate  of 
satisfaction is for a different (lesser) sum than the more recent CCJ. And one account  was 
closed in 2012 at around the same  time the certificate of satisfaction was issued. Ive already 
said I think its probable  the certificate related to that account. And Capquest  had no 
involvement with that account.
In these circumstances I think Capquest had reasonable grounds for believing  it was entitled 
to enforce the debt it owned  through the County Court. And where  a CCJ is made  - and is 
not settled within one month - it is entered on the Register of Judgments. As this is a record 
of a judicial  decision its not something  I have jurisdiction to alter.  
I should clarify that the CCJ is not itself a default  - and its not recorded as a default on a
credit file. CCJs are listed separately and are obtained from public records.  So to have the
entry removed from her credit file Miss C would  need to have the judgment  set aside and
then have it removed  from the Register of Judgments.
In summary,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say Capquest  had done  anything 
wrong. And whilst Im aware it will come  as a disappointment to Miss C Im not upholding her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9952710