K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  Lloyds Bank  PLC as when Mrs T attempted to claim 
on a breakdown policy which came with their Platinum packaged bank account they were 
told that she was not covered. Mr and Mrs T say that they do not feel that Mrs T was ever 
covered for any of the benefits and therefore  they would like half their monthly account fees 
refunded.
background
In 2017, Mrs T tried to use the breakdown cover that came with the Platinum account she 
held jointly  with Mr T. She was told that she was not covered and only Mr T was covered.  
This resulted in Mr T having  to drive to where Mrs T had broken  down in order  for the 
breakdown company to help.
Lloyds have accepted that Mrs T had not been  registered with the breakdown  company,  
which was their fault, and therefore credited Mr and Mrs T with £150  to reflect the distress  
that this would have caused and £30 for the cost of the calls that they made resolving  this 
issue. 
Our adjudicators looked into this already and they thought that what Lloyds  had done  was 
sufficient given the overall circumstances of this complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  as they 
believe that they should be refunded half their account fees as they feel that Mrs T was 
never covered for any of the account benefits.
I would like to explain that where a financial business does,  or has done, something  wrong  
we look to ensure  it puts things right for the consumer in a fair way. We normally look to 
businesses to do this by, as closely as possible,  placing  the consumer in the financial 
position they wouldve been  in if things hadnt gone wrong. So we essentially look to unwind 
any wrongdoing  after all it wouldnt be fair for a consumer to lose out financially because  of 
something a business  had done wrong.  But importantly we would  not ask a business to 
refund losses that potentially could have happened but did not.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Mr and Mrs T say that they do not feel that Mrs T was ever covered for any of the benefits  
that the account came with and therefore  they feel that they should  be refunded half the 
account fees. I accept  they were relying  on them during this period, but they have not 
suffered a loss as a result  of this, such as a declined claim. The only impact on them has 
been the problem with the breakdown cover, as discussed in the background section. So 
even if Lloyds did fail to register Mrs T for other  benefits, they have not financially  lost out 
because of this.
That said it is not in dispute though that Mrs T was not registered  under the breakdown 
cover and while this did not cost Mr and Mrs T financially it would have caused a measure of 
distress and inconvenience when she attempted to claim. So what I need to do here is 
Ref: DRN91093252decide whether  what Lloyds  have  done to put things right for Mr and Mrs T is fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of their complaint.
I can understand that breaking down and finding  out that you were  not covered wouldve 
been a distressing situation. And that Mr T then having to drive  to where Mrs T was would  
have been inconvenient for him. I have carefully  thought about this and overall I think  that 
the £150 already paid by Lloyds  reflects  an appropriate level of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this, and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that Lloyds does not need  to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9109325