K820x#14complaint
Ms M complained that Lloyds Bank PLC had:
-acted unfairly when her property  went through the Mortgage  Rescue scheme;  and
-wrongly passed her details to a third party debt collection  agency.
Ms M wants her debt written off.
background
Ms M and her ex-husband had a mortgage  with Lloyds.  They  split up in 2011.  After 
discussions, the property was bought by the local housing authority under the Mortgage 
Rescue scheme. But Ms M was in arrears and still owed £4,242.73, which  wasnt paid off 
by the sale. She signed a promissory note,  agreeing  to pay £15 a month. No interest would 
be added.
Ms M complained to Lloyds in 2012 about  what had happened. She received a final 
response dated 20 August 2012.  This said that if Ms M was dissatisfied with the decision, 
she could refer her complaint to this service, provided she did so within  six months of the 
date of the letter. Ms M didnt contact this service,  and continued to pay £15 a month.
In 2018, Lloyds changed its debt recovery agency, which  acts for the bank to recover 
mortgage shortfalls. The banks new agent wrote to Ms M in May 2018. The letter  said 
Lloyds had passed on Ms Ms account  details. It said it offered a flexible approach to 
repayment and had different options,  and it would be in touch with her. 
Ms M complained to Lloyds. She was unhappy  that Lloyds had passed her details to the 
debt recovery agency, and felt Lloyds had broken  the agreement.  
Lloyds replied that the debt collection agency  had got in touch with Ms M in order to set up 
an official plan, and might  want  her to go over a financial statement over the phone,  for the 
records. Lloyds said it had spoken to the debt collection agency, which had said that if Ms M 
got in touch, it would be happy  to continue the same payment  plan as she was already on.
Ms M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told us about what had happened 
in 2011, and why she was unhappy  with this. She also said she hadnt authorised  Lloyds to 
pass her details to the debt collection  agency, and she was unhappy that she and a relative 
were getting  calls from the agency.  Ms M believed Lloyds had broken the agreement. She 
wanted the debt written  off, as she said it was based  on unfair charges and was always 
unfair. She said Lloyds  had now breached  the agreement by passing  on her details to the 
debt collection agency.
The adjudicator explained that this service cant look at part of Ms Ms complaint. And she 
didnt uphold  the part we can look at.
The adjudicator said that Ms M had initially complained to Lloyds about  events  around  the 
Mortgage Rescue  in August 2012. In the banks final response, it had told her about the 
right to complain to this service  provided she did so within  six months of the letter.  Ms M 
hadnt complained to this service within that time.  So we cant consider the shortfall  on Ms 
Ms Lloyds mortgage or how it arose.
Ref: DRN90894622But the adjudicator did consider Ms Ms complaint about Lloyds passing  her details to the 
debt collection agency. The adjudicator  explained that as that organisation was acting as the 
banks agents,  Lloyds hadnt  breached Ms Ms data protection rights.  Essentially, the agent 
was acting in the place  of Lloyds, so it could have  the information.  And it would have the 
same duty of care over Ms Ms data as Lloyds did.
The adjudicator also explained that Lloyds had said that what the debt collection agency  was 
trying to do was a review,  to ensure that £15 a month remained affordable, or whether Ms M 
was able to pay a little more. It wasnt  that Ms M had to pay more  just that her 
circumstances hadnt been reviewed, so it was time this happened.
Ms M wasnt satisfied. She gave more detail about the circumstances of the 2011 changes. 
She said she wouldnt have agreed to pay £15 a month to Lloyds if shed thought  shed then 
be chased by debt agencies for something she was continuing  to pay. She still believed  that 
Lloyds was in breach  of the agreement, and said she was prepared to take this to court. She 
wanted to know  why all of this had happened  in the first place,  and why it had been 
transferred to a third party who now had an interest in her finances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Ms M feels strongly about many issues in her situation. But this service is 
governed by rules  about what we can and cant look at. These are set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  One of those  rules says that complaints must be brought to us 
within strict  time limits. I issued a separate decision about the part of Ms Ms complaint which  
I cant consider. In that, I explained that I dont have the authority to look at Ms Ms complaint 
about how her mortgage  debt came about, or anything about  the circumstances at the time.  
Thats because she brought it to us outside the time limits.
What I can look at is Ms Ms complaint about  Lloyds change to using a new debt collection 
agency. That happened in 2018,  and Ms M complained to us in time. Thats what this 
decision is about.
The debt collection agency acts as an agent of Lloyds   in other words, on its behalf and in 
its place. So Lloyds was allowed to let the agency  have Ms Ms details, and there  are no 
grounds for writing off Ms Ms debt on that basis.
Ms M said that even  if Lloyds said it had the right to pass on her details in a mortgage,  this 
agreement was no longer a mortgage agreement. She said it was a completely separate 
agreement drawn  up only with her  whereas  the mortgage had been in the joint names of 
Ms M and her ex-husband. 
Its correct that the shortfall debt was no longer a mortgage agreement. However,  its not 
correct that Lloyds gave Ms Ms details and an interest in the debt to a third party.  What 
Lloyds did was hire the third party  debt collection agency to do its debt management.  So the 
debt collection agency was Lloyds agent.  Nothing thats happened means the debt 
collection agency has an interest in the debt.
Ref: DRN90894623And in relation to Ms Ms details being  given  to the debt collection agency, as long as Lloyds 
was satisfied with the agencys  data protection arrangements,  it was fine for it to hire in 
resource, to do functions which would otherwise be carried out by an internal department. 
Although I find that Lloyds  hasnt done anything wrong, I recognise that Ms M has expressed 
anxiety that she might be chased by a debt agency for something  she was continuing to pay. 
I understand why shed  be concerned  about  this when she was used to dealing with Lloyds 
direct. But Ive seen  nothing  on file which would indicate that the agency was trying  to get Ms 
M to pay more. Its understandable that after some years, it would be time for a review  of Ms 
Ms circumstances, and I accept that this update was what the debt agency was trying  to do. 
And I see that Lloyds  reassured Ms M that it had got in touch with the agent  on her behalf, 
and the agent was happy to accept the ongoing  £15 a month  payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint  about  Lloyds passing on her 
information to its debt collection agency.
In a separate decision, I explained that I dont have  jurisdiction  to consider Ms Ms complaint 
about the circumstances around her 2011-2012 mortgage rescue, because she brought  the 
complaint too late.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9089462