K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the distress and inconvenience and consequential loss she believes 
she has incurred as a result of being  mis-sold  a fixed  rate loan from HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
(HSBC).
background
Mrs R was sold a fixed rate loan by HSBC. As I understand  Mrs R has already accepted 
redress for direct losses in respect  of the mis-sale  of this product. What remains  in dispute 
between the parties  is Mrs Rs claim for distress and inconvenience and consequential loss. 
HSBC feel their previous  offer of £1500 for distress  and inconvenience is fair. HSBC has 
also explained that part of a previous payment to Mrs R included  8% interest which  reflects  
the loss of opportunity she may have  had to make  a profit on the money that was offered 
and subsequently accepted by her.
Upon this complaint  being  referred  to our service, an investigator looked at the case. She 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint and felt HSBCs offer of £1500 was in line with the 
recommendation our service would have made.
Unhappy with the investigators findings, this case has been  referred  to me to now consider. 
I can assure both parties that Ive looked at all the evidence which  has been submitted. And 
this includes the additional submissions Mrs R has made since  the investigator issued her 
view. It is important to note that Mrs R has already accepted compensation for the direct 
losses of having  been mis-sold the fixed rate loan. It is therefore  just the claim for distress 
and inconvenience  and consequential  loss that I need to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to say that I too am unable to 
uphold this complaint for reasons in line with those already  expressed  by the investigator.
Ive given a great deal of thought to Mrs Rs position  and the arguments she has put forward.  
In particular the impact  she claims the mis-selling of the loan had and continues to have on 
her mental health and relationship with her family. I have  no doubt that Mrs R has been 
through a very troubling time and Im genuinely saddened to hear of the huge  impact  this 
has had on her mental and physical  wellbeing. But under the circumstances  I do think  that 
HSBCs offer of £1500 for any distress and inconvenience is fair and in line with the 
recommendation we would  make  on a case of this nature.
Mrs R has explained that part of her claim for consequential loss is the missed  opportunities 
to expand her business  as a result of having been  mis-sold  the fixed rate loan. As the 
investigator has already  explained part of the redress payment made to Mrs R by HSBC 
included 8% compensatory interest. I can see that HSBC has tried to compensate Mrs R for 
consequential loss without her needing  to submit a detailed assessment. And just like the 
investigator Ive not seen  good enough  evidence  to show a legitimate recoverable loss in 
excess of the amount  of compensation already paid to Mrs R. Im therefore of the view that 
HSBCs actions in respect  of this have  been fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN91750212my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 August 2019.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9175021