K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains as a sole trader about  the service shes  received from Amtrust  Europe 
Limited when claiming under her mobile  phone insurance policy. 
background
Ms N contacted Amtrust to claim under her mobile phone insurance  policy  when her 
business phone was stolen. She says the information Amtrust requested from her was 
unreasonable, so she claimed under her content insurance with a different provider. Ms N is 
unhappy with the service  shes received from Amtrust. She says it wasnt  helpful and refused 
to talk to her over the phone.  
Amtrust says the information it requested to be able to consider Ms Ns claim was necessary 
as part of its claim validation process.  Amtrust says the service it provided Ms N was helpful  
and it refused to talk to her over the phone as a result of the way Ms N communicated  with 
its staff. 
Ms N brought the complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and she thought some of Amtrusts service  couldve  been better.  So she asked  Amtrust  to 
pay Ms N £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused  her.
Ms N and Amtrust  didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
Ms N says Amtrust should consider her claim for her stolen  mobile phone. Amtrust says 
£100 was too high and it thought £50 compensation was more appropriate, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.      
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
When Ms N contacted Amtrust regarding her stolen mobile  phone, it asked her to provide 
more information  regarding the circumstances  of the incident, proof of purchase,  proof  of 
usage, iCloud screenshot,  information about other  insurers,  ID, proof of address and a police 
report. Ms N wasnt sure about  some of the information it requested so she called Amtrust. 
It informed her during  the telephone call that Ms N needed to provide a screenshot  of her 
iCloud account  showing her device details and a picture of her passport photo page  held 
beside her face.
Ms N says she provided all the information it requested apart  from the police report, iCloud 
screenshot and a picture of her passport photo  page  held beside her face. She says this 
information was unreasonable and disproportionate  to what  most insurers would request 
when claiming  under  a mobile insurance policy. 
Amtrust says the information it requested as part of its claim validation  process was 
necessary for the purposes of fraud  prevention. So Ive considered  whether it was fair for 
Amtrust to not consider  Ms Ns claim.  
Ref: DRN95820962Amtrust has told us that it wouldnt  have  declined the claim if Ms N didnt provide the iCloud 
screenshot or a picture of her passport photo  page held beside her face. It does however 
say that Ms N didnt  provide a police  report which it does require as set out in its policy  terms 
and conditions. But having considered the information provided I think she has provided  a 
report that meets the requirements of the policy term (or at least the intention of the term). 
I say this because  Ms N provided Amtrust  with an email  from the police which contained a 
crime reference number  and confirmation  that the incident wasnt  going to be passed for 
further investigation. 
Amtrust says it wanted a report  so it could see if Ms N had CCTV in support of her claim. 
But that isnt a requirement  of its claim validation process. I think if Amtrust wanted  to know 
more about the circumstances  of the theft it could have explored that as part of the claims 
process. 
But I think Ms N had provided enough information for her claim to be considered. And I think  
Amtrust should now consider Ms Ns mobile  phone insurance claim under the terms of her 
policy. I understand Ms N has claimed  for her mobile phone under her content insurance and 
received £250,  so if Amtrust decides to pay her claim then it will be entitled  to deduct £250  
from any award it makes.
Ms N is unhappy with the service shes received from Amtrust, in particular she says it lied to 
her and refused  to talk to her over the telephone. Amtrust says it didnt lie to Ms N and it 
refused to talk to her over the telephone because of the way she communicated  with its staff. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls Ms N had with Amtrust, and having done  so, I think the 
service it provided Ms N couldve  been  better. 
When Ms N called Amtrust to query the information  it requested from her, the advisor 
introduced themselves at the beginning  of the call. Later on in the same telephone call when 
Ms N asked for the advisors  name, the advisor  provided a different name. Ms N explained  
that this was her business mobile phone  which is why she needed  it to be dealt with 
urgently. Ms N asked  to respond to its query  over the phone  as she wanted to avoid Amtrust 
asking for further  clarification which wouldve  delayed the process. But the advisor asked 
Ms N to respond in writing. 
When Ms N called Amtrust the next day, it said it didnt have an advisor with that name 
working in its office. Ms N was frustrated by this so she wished to raise a complaint  about 
the service she was receiving. The call was transferred through  to the advisors  manager  
and whilst Ms N was explaining her concerns to the manager, she was informed that they 
werent prepared  to be spoken  to in this way and terminated the call.  
Having considered the service Amtrust  provided Ms N, I think it should  pay her £100  for the 
trouble and upset  it caused her. I say this because I think Amtrust couldve  been  more 
helpful in assisting Ms N when  she explained  that shed prefer  to explain the circumstances 
over the telephone. The advisor also provided her with an incorrect  name. I acknowledge 
that Ms N sounded frustrated during  these  telephone calls,  but when the telephone call was 
terminated Ms Ns tone of voice was calmer. If it thought Ms Ns communication wasnt 
appropriate then I think it couldve given her a warning about this by letting her know that if 
she continues in this way then they would terminate the call before actually terminating  it. So 
considering the impact  this inconvenience  wouldve had on Ms N at an already difficult time, 
I think £100 is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN95820963responses to my provisional  decision
Ms N agreed with my provisional decision.  Amtrust  confirmed receipt but didnt have any 
further points  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into consideration, as Ms N has accepted my provisional decision and 
Amtrust raised no further points, Ive no reason to change my mind from my provisional 
decision. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings I uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ns complaint. I require Amtrust Europe  Limited  to:
consider Ms Ns claim under the terms of her policy and if it makes a payment  on the 
claim then it will be entitled to deduct £250  from that 
pay Ms N £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9582096