K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains Capital  One (Europe) Plc wouldnt help her set up a payment plan to pay 
off her credit card debt.  
background
Miss W applied for a credit  card with Capital One in December 2016.  In early 2018  she 
struggled to keep within the credit limit and to pay the minimum payments. She said she 
tried to set up a payment plan with Capital  One but it wouldnt help her and subsequently 
started demanding she pay the balance in full. She said it registered a default  on her credit 
file. She brought her complaint to this service. She said Capital One refused to answer her 
complaint and hadnt tried to contact her. 
Capital One told this service it had issued a final response concerning  this complaint to 
Miss W on 4 April when  it had responded to a separate complaint. It said it had invited 
Miss W to make  contact regarding her financial  situation. 
The adjudicator thought  Capital One had dealt  with Miss Ws complaint fairly. She said it had 
tried to contact Miss W on a number of occasions  and asked her to complete an income and 
expenses form. Miss W disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman. She 
said shed completed  the form five times  but that Capital One was not prepared  to work with 
her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss W but having done so I wont be asking  Capital One to do anything 
further. 
Ive looked at contact notes  between  Capital One and Miss W. I can see Miss W contacted  
the business in January to say she was in some financial difficulty. Capital  One responded 
by sending out a self-help pack.  Ive seen a copy of this. It includes information about 
payment plans, an income and expenditure form and details of not for profit agencies that 
can help. Capital One said it didnt receive a response. 
In early March Capital One tried to call Miss W a number of times. It reported a problem with 
the mobile number  of the account  but that Miss W was able to answer extra security  
questions. Capital One noted that Miss W said she didnt  have time to discuss  the account  at 
that time.  It said it emailed  her on 12 March because the number it had was unobtainable. 
On 15 March Miss W spoke with the fraud  team about another  complaint and they arranged  
for a specialist team to call her about her financial situation. When  that team called  
Capital One said Miss W asked it to remove her number  from the account.  
Capital One told this service it had issued a final response concerning  this complaint to 
Miss W on 4 April when  it had responded to another complaint. In that letter it informed 
Miss W her account was currently in arrears  and invited her to call Capital One to talk 
through her situation. It also said it could help find the right option  to get her finances back  
on track such as arranging a payment plan. It again  went on to list a number of not for profit 
organisations that could help. It said it sent another self-help pack to Miss W in May. 
Ref: DRN98419922Financial businesses have a duty to respond positively and sympathetically when they 
become aware  a customer  is in financial difficulty. Though this doesnt automatically mean it 
muststop charges  and interest. In order to help it is reasonable to expect customers  to 
submit information related  to their income and expenditure in order  to help draw up a 
suitable plan the customer can afford. Im satisfied Capital One reached out to Miss W a 
number of times to discuss  her situation and try to help. 
Miss W said she sent Capital One an expenditure form five times but that it was never  
prepared to work with her. The adjudicator asked Miss W if she had proof  of posting but 
unfortunately she didnt.  Nor could she recall when  she sent the forms. 
Im not disputing Miss W sent the income  and expenditure forms, its very possible that she 
did. But Ive seen no evidence in the contact  notes that this information has been received. I 
would expect, given  Miss W specifically wanted  a payment plan, that had she not heard  from 
Capital One she would  call them  specifically  to discuss  such  an arrangement. But I havent 
seen any evidence this happened.  
Im satisfied Capital One hasnt done  anything wrong so I wont  be asking it to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9841992