K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Premier 
packaged bank  account. He says that when the account was sold to him his situation wasnt  
properly discussed  and the benefits didnt suit him.
Mr S has also complained that Lloyds didnt tell him about the Platinum  packaged account 
during an account  review.  Mr S said that had Lloyds told him about the cost and benefits of 
the Platinum account during the account review, he wouldve downgraded his account.
background
Mr Ss account was upgraded from a Gold Service packaged account to a Premier packaged 
account on 26 February 2008. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  this complaint  and didnt think  that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
Premier account or had acted unfairly because it didnt tell Mr S about other accounts  in its 
range of packaged accounts.
Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. Where  evidence is 
incomplete and matters are in dispute,  as they are here, I make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider  
circumstances at the time. 
Having considered everything  that Mr S and Lloyds have said and provided,  I dont  uphold  
this complaint. I will explain  why.
Premier account mis-sale 
Mr S has complained that when Lloyds sold him the Premier account, it didnt properly 
discuss his circumstances  with him and he says the benefits didnt suit him. 
It doesnt appear to be the case that Mr S thought he had to have the Premier account  or 
had no choice in the matter. So I think its likely that he agreed to the Premier account 
because he was attracted  to, at least some of, the benefits it provided. I say this particularly 
as he already had a packaged account  that came with a range of benefits.
Mr S says the benefits didnt suit him and it looks like Lloyds recommended the account  to 
Mr S. This means it had to make sure it was right for him.
Ref: DRN98948122At the time,  the Premier account cost £25 per month and provided  a range of benefits  
including worldwide family travel insurance that included winter  sports  cover, comprehensive  
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance,  card protection, Identity theft protection  and 
home emergency cover. It also provided  non-insurance benefits such  as a £500 interest free 
overdraft facility with reduced interest  rates on balances overdrawn by more  than £500. As 
well as airport lounge access and will writing service, amongst other benefits.
Mr S says that at the time of the sale, he didnt  drive,  had a smartphone and travelled within 
Europe. So it looks like he had a need  for the mobile phone  insurance and the travel  
insurance provided by the account. Lloyds  notes from the time show  that the Premier  
account was recommended to Mr S because it contained Identity  theft protection  which 
was another benefit that Mr S could make use of. And as the Premier  account was the 
cheapest account that provided these  benefits, I dont think that Lloyds recommendation 
was unreasonable in the circumstances. I say this particularly  as Mr S was also able to 
benefit from the overdraft  benefits that came  with the Premier account.
As well as making sure it was right for Mr S, Lloyds also had to give Mr S important 
information about the account and the associated benefits. This included drawing any 
onerous terms or exclusions to Mr Ss attention.
Its clear that Mr S was given some information  about the account benefits. For example he 
knew he had to register phones under  the mobile phone insurance for them  to be covered. 
And he knew who to call to use the breakdown cover. Mr S has said Lloyds shouldve  given 
him the best possible  advice when his wife was told that her pre-exiting medical condition 
wasnt covered by the travel insurance.  But as Mr S was aware of the need to contact the 
underwriter about  existing medical  conditions, this suggests that Lloyds made Mr S aware of 
that particular  requirement of the policy. 
The decision  of whether to cover  Mr Ss wifes condition wouldve been made by the travel  
insurance underwriter,  and not Lloyds. So I dont think it would be appropriate to hold Lloyds 
responsible for a decision made by the underwriter. Essentially, when Mr S was told by the 
underwriter that his wifes condition wouldnt be covered, it wouldve been up to him to 
decide whether  he wanted to keep the Premier  account or not. 
I accept its possible that Lloyds may not have given  Mr S all of the information  about the 
Premier account and its benefits when it sold the account to him. But I cant see anything 
specific about Mr Ss circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to it, had he been given more  information  about it.
Because of these  reasons, I dont think that the Premier account was mis-sold.  
Premier account review  
Mr S says that he attended a Lloyds branch in 2013 for a review of his financial situation. 
Lloyds doesnt  have any detailed information  about  what mayve been  discussed during an 
account review in 2013 in its customer notes. Mr S says that the member of staff asked him 
several questions  about  his financial situation. And although he told the member  of staff that 
the monthly fee of £25 was expensive  and that he didnt need  many of the benefits, he says 
he was told to keep  the Premier account as it was a very good account  and was no longer 
offered to new customers.
Ref: DRN98948123Mr S says that the Platinum account offered pretty much the same  benefits as the Premier 
account but for a much lower fee and shouldve been told about it. But, in 2013 the Platinum 
account didnt  provide  the same benefits  as the Premier account. For example the Premier 
account provided a bigger interest  free overdraft facility of £500, compared to £300 on the 
Platinum. It also provided  lower interest  rates on overdrawn balances beyond  the interest 
free portion  which,  based on documents provided  by Lloyds, looks  to have been 15.43% 
compared to 17.28%  on the Platinum  account.  And it also provided enhanced levels of travel 
insurance, mobile phone  insurance and breakdown cover. 
Ive thought about Mr Ss recollections  of the review.  And I think  its likely that the member of 
staff suggested  the Premier account  remained suitable for Mr S because it provided benefits 
that Mr S was using  that werent available on the Platinum account. For example I can see 
that Mr S was often  registering two handsets  on the mobile phone insurance and relied on 
the Relay Plus benefits in June 2013   both of which werent  available on the Platinum 
account. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr S may now regret his decision to have 
gone along with Lloyds  suggestion that he keep  the Premier account. But I am not 
persuaded, on balance, that Lloyds actions during the account review  were unfair or 
unreasonable.
So having  carefully considered everything  that has been said and provided  by both Mr S and 
Lloyds, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold  the Premier account or acted unreasonably, in 
persuading Mr S to keep his Premier account, during an account  review.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr S, but I hope he understands the 
reasons why I have  reached this decision.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9894812