K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help her when she was the 
victim of a scam, losing £15,000.  
HSBC say they are not liable for the loss because Ms M authorised  the payments and they 
had no reason to suspect  there was an issue. But they accepted they could have provided 
better service when communicating about  their recovery  attempts and offered £100  
compensation for the impact  of this. 
background
In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision extracts  of which Ive copied below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint  for the following reasons. 
1.It is common ground that on 25 and 26 March 2017  respectively, Ms M authorised 
the scam  payments of £10,000 and £5,000 from her account with HSBC to the 
scammers account. She was tricked  into doing  so believing that she was making a 
genuine investment  with a firm G who at the time were regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA). Ms M describes checking the FCA website at the time to 
confirm this. During email communication  with G Ms M was provided with the 
account details  for where to send her payments. And having  made  the payments she 
received confirmation  that she had invested for 12 months  with a guaranteed return 
of 5%. But unfortunately, when Ms M tried to make contact around a year later to 
discuss her options,  her emails bounced  back and the numbers she had werent 
answered. Ms M contacted G from publicly available details and found G had been 
impersonated by a scammer  who received  Ms Ms money, rather  than the genuine G. 
She became  aware that the FCA had published  a warning about this a few weeks  
after shed checked their website and made the payments.   
2.I accept that these were authorised payments even though Ms M was the victim of a 
scam. She provided  valid instructions  through her online banking. So, although she 
didnt intend to pay the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(PSRs), and the terms of her account,  Ms M is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
3.However, taking account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice  at the time, I consider it would have  been  fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to have:
Monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Maintained systems  to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators  that their customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things),  
particularly given  the increase in sophisticated fraud  and scams  in recent years,  
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
Ref: DRN93663212Taken additional steps or made additional checks  in some circumstances 
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing the payment; or in 
some cases, to have  declined to make a payment altogether  in order  to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm  from fraud.
4.In Ms Ms case, Im satisfied there were the following triggers  to alert HSBC  to the 
possibility of a fraud  or scam:
The payment  was for an unusually large amount. Ive looked  at Ms Ms account 
statements going back to December 2015,  which I consider gives  a good sample 
size to assess what was typical activity for the account. The account was 
generally well-managed and was typically in a credit balance. Most payments 
leaving the account were generally  for only a few hundred pounds.  Within  that 
time period  there was nothing  else approaching the initial payment amount of 
£10,000 that was sent as a result  of the scam.
The payment  represented  a sudden  and uncharacteristic increase  in spending 
from the account.
The payment  was to a new payee.
5.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to 
configure their fraud detection systems given the balance  between  the duty of care 
towards clients and the duty to execute instructions without  undue  delay.  HSBC  have 
pointed out that most customers, from time to time, do make payments that are larger 
than their regular expenditure. So, they say its not reasonable to expect them  to 
have intervened in what  they consider to be relatively modest  payments,  particularly  
where there was no interaction with their staff. Ive considered this, but on the facts 
and evidence before  me, I am satisfied that HSBC  could and should  reasonably  have 
made additional checks with Ms M before they let the first payment through. There  
were enough triggers  of unusual or uncharacteristic activity such that, in my view, a 
prudent and professional banker could and should have realised that something 
didnt look quite  right  and that further  enquiries  would  be appropriate. It was 
reasonably foreseeable that failing  to do so, might result in this type of financial harm. 
I therefore conclude  that HSBC didnt  do enough to protect  Ms M from the risk of 
loss.
6.So, Ive gone  on to consider whether HSBCs  intervention at this point would  have 
made a difference  its essential for any failing to have caused the loss. Here,  if 
HSBC had contacted Ms M, Id have expected them to have asked probing questions  
with the aim of uncovering  a potential scam and not necessarily to have taken 
Ms Ms answers  at face value (because  banks know that victims are often coached 
into giving  cover stories by the scammers). I think Ms M probably  would  have 
truthfully answered any questions she was asked. I think its likely she would have 
explained that she was instructing the payment  to fund an investment. I think  a 
reasonable question for HSBC to have  asked would have been where Ms M first 
heard of the investment. Its likely  she would have  explained that she found the 
investment opportunity in an email with a celebrity  endorsement. This is a common 
feature of many scams and I think this would have been a red flag to HSBC.  Ms M 
was also given the account details  for where  to send her funds in an online chat the 
link to which was provided in an email she received. So another risk was that this 
was an email interception scam. For either of these reasons, if HSBC had warned 
Ms M of the possibility  of this being  a scam, I think she would have listened and 
acted upon such  a warning. The money  was her inheritance from her late mother.  As 
Ref: DRN93663213such, I think she would have been particularly  cautious. Had there been a warning, I 
think Ms M would have contacted the genuine G (as she later went on to do). This 
would have resulted in the scam being  discovered.  I think that, but for HSBCs failure 
to ask questions,  the scam  probably  would not have succeeded. I think it is self-
evident that if the first payment had been prevented,  the second likewise  wouldnt 
have happened. 
7.HSBC have suggested that their intervention wouldnt  have made  a difference.  They 
highlight that the FCA warning about G was only published in April 2017  after the 
payments had been made. Ive considered this, but as Ive mentioned  above,  there  
were a number of risks to the first payment  which  I think HSBC ought to have picked 
up on and warned Ms M about. Key to this was to warn her to ensure she was 
actually dealing with G, rather  than someone  impersonating them or someone who 
had intercepted an email.  I accept  Ms M might  have felt some  reassurance as a 
result of her own checks. But had she known of the possibility of emails  being 
intercepted or of G being  impersonated, I think she would have taken steps to 
contact them on publicly available details.  Ms M made  checks  on the FCA website at 
the time,  Ive no reason to think  she wouldnt have made further checks  if prompted 
to by HSBC 
8.HSBC also made  reference to part of the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Specifically, they highlighted that reg. 71(2)(b)  says: 
A framework  contract may provide  for the payment  service provider to have the right 
to stop the use of a payment instrument on reasonable grounds relating tothe 
suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of the payment instrument.
9.Ms Ms payments were made in March 2017 and would therefore be subject to the 
PSRs 2009, the PSRs  2017 didnt come  into effect  until early 2018.  But Id be happy 
to consider further submissions in relation to the 2009 PSRs should  HSBC wish to 
make them  in response to this provisional  decision.  But in any case I will address  the 
crux of HSBCs  argument which is that the threshold of reasonable grounds wasnt 
met and so they had no permissible  way to stop the payments  Ms M instructed 
through her online banking. Im not suggesting  that solely on the basis  of how 
unusual the transaction was that HSBC ought  to have  prevented  Ms M from making 
all payments. But as Ive explained  above,  I think they ought reasonably to have had 
concerns that Ms M might be at risk of financial harm. And, without breaching  their 
contractual or regulatory obligations,  I think they could reasonably  have held the 
transaction until theyd  satisfied themselves  that it was legitimate or that Ms M at 
least understood the risk and was nevertheless prepared to continue.  It may be that a 
conversation with another customer, in similar circumstances, could result in the 
customer still wanting to instruct the payment, and HSBC do have the ability  to refuse  
that instruction  if they feel reasonable grounds  exist to suggest unauthorised use or 
fraud relating  to the account. But  for the reasons set out above  I dont think  that is 
what would have  happened on the facts  of this particular case.
10.I accept  that, prior to speaking  to Ms M, the threshold to decline outright her 
instruction and to prevent the payments altogether, against her wishes,  might not 
have been met. But I think a warning would have been  effective and that Ms M would 
then have changed her mind  about  instructing the transaction.  I am not persuaded 
this is a case where HSBC would  have had to have gone against their customers 
instruction...
Ref: DRN9366321411.there  were enough triggers of unusual and uncharacteristic  activity with Ms Ms 
instruction to pay £10,000 to a new payee that HSBC objectively had reason to be 
concerned that she might be at risk of financial  harm. Had they intervened,  its likely  
the scam  would  have  unravelled, and this loss would not have  occurred.
12.In light of my conclusion above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether  
HSBC also exercised enough care and urgency when trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the beneficiary bank.  But for completeness, I can see that HSBC did 
contact the beneficiary bank  and raise the issue. If there wasnt a prompt  response  
from the other bank,  I dont think I can hold HSBC liable  for this. And generally, it 
appears to be a common feature of scams that money is quickly  moved  on from the 
beneficiary account. So, as the scam  was reported nearly a year after the payments 
had been made, its unlikely  there would have been  funds remaining in the 
beneficiary account. 
13.I have  also considered whether  Ms M should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that when making the payment she 
believed this to be a genuine investment. Ms M also describes how shed taken  steps 
such as checking  the FCA website prior to authorising the payment. These  arent the 
actions of someone acting  carelessly or courting obvious risks.  I dont think  Ms M can 
fairly be described as having been negligent   she was the victim  of a sophisticated 
scam. And whilst  it is unfortunate that due to the passage of time Ms M hasnt been 
able to evidence  the correspondence  between her and the scammers, I accept her 
statement as to how the scam unfolded. HSBC are the finance  professionals and 
Ms M was an average consumer with no knowledge  of such scams, who had been 
cleverly duped into sending her funds to the scammer. 
14.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to 
reimburse Ms M for the loss she has suffered without  any reduction, together  with 
interest to compensate  for being deprived  of the money she lost from her account.  
HSBC have suggested that 8% is a punitive  rate of interest  that isnt fair to apply in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  They say this will result in Ms M being in a better 
position to the banks  detriment. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Im not 
suggesting that Ms M would have otherwise invested and achieved  a return of 8%. 
But, given the average costs of borrowing over time, it has long been our approach  
that this is a suitable rate to compensate for being deprived  of the funds and I remain 
satisfied it is fair to apply  it in the circumstances of this complaint.
15.Ms M has described how painful  revisiting these events have been for her when  
sharing information  with our service. Particularly as it was her inheritance that was 
lost. I can understand  that these events have  had quite an impact  on her. With that in 
mind, I also think  that a modest compensation award of £300 should  be made for the 
distress and inconvenience Ms M has suffered. In reaching that conclusion, I am 
mindful that much of the distress  was caused by the criminal act of fraudsters who 
tricked her into authorising the transactions  but HSBC ultimately could have 
prevented this.
Ms M responded and said she had nothing further  to add. HSBC responded and re-iterated 
their position. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
Ref: DRN93663215my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC responded  to say they disagreed with my provisional decision and for the reasons 
theyd previously set out. In particular they said that Ms M was pro-actively looking for an 
investment and there was nothing to distinguish  her activity from that of someone who 
wasnt being scammed. They repeated that there  was no FCA warning at the time of Ms Ms 
payments. And also that even if they had intervened, they dont think  it wouldve made a 
difference, as Ms M had already researched G.
Ive considered all these points but Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome in my 
provisional decision. The activity was objectively unusual for Ms M and her account   to the 
extent that I think it would have been fair and reasonable for HSBC  to have intervened. But 
for HSBCs  failure to intervene  in the way Ive described above, I think  the scam and Ms Ms 
loss would have  been prevented. Ms M was cautious due to the personal nature  of the funds 
involved (the inheritance  from her late mother), so I think she would have been particularly 
receptive to any warnings  given. 
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of them  in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and they have referred  to the Quincecare  duty in support of their argument.  I am 
mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases.
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
Ref: DRN93663216my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay £15,000 (less any amount already recovered and returned) to Ms M within 
28 days of receiving  notification of her acceptance of my decision;
Pay interest on that sum at the simple  rate of 8% a year from the date of loss to the 
date of refund;
Pay Ms M £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of 
receiving notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision, failing which  interest will 
accrue thereafter on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until payment. If the 
£100 referred to above has already been  paid, only a further £200 needs  to be paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9366321