K822xcomplaint
Mr C says that the loans  he applied for were approved  by Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as 
Lending Stream without  it doing proper affordability  checks. It didnt properly assess Mr Cs 
signs of indebtedness  and lent him money  he couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Lending Stream approved 24 loans between October  2015  and February  2017.  There is no 
significant gap between the loans  and in some months  Mr C took out more than one loan. 
One of our adjudicators thought that Lending Stream  hadnt done enough checks  for loans 5 
to 24. He wasnt able to say what better  checks would have revealed for loans  5-8 as Mr C 
wasnt able to provide  his bank statements for that period. So he couldnt  say that the loans 
were unaffordable.  But he thought  that at the point of loan 8 Lending  Stream  should have 
seen that Mr Cs borrowing was unsustainable and harmful  and it shouldnt  have given  him 
loans 8 to 24. Our adjudicator said the business  should put things right for Mr C by refunding 
all interest and charges  hes paid on loans 8 to 24 inclusive, adding interest at 8% to the 
refund and removing  all negative information  from Mr Cs credit  file about the refunded 
loans. Lending  Stream accepted that opinion and offered the settlement proposed  by the 
adjudicator.
Mr C did not agree and said in summary that he had suffered significant anxiety and 
hardship as a result of the lending and he thought  that the outstanding principal balance  
should also be written  off. Mr C didnt provide further  information  in the form of his bank 
statements or other confirmation of expenses.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lending Stream, each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr C would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Cs indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Lending Stream did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C 
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN95785252Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Loan 1 was applied for in October  2015. Mr C asked for £80. It was repaid in full and on 
time. Given this was the first loan and was for a relatively small amount compared  to the 
disposable income that Mr C declared he had I dont think Lending Stream  needed to do any 
more checks. I dont think it was wrong  for Lending  Stream to agree  this loan. 
On 31 October 2015 Mr C was given  loan 2 for £500  repayable over 6 monthly  instalments.  
The highest  instalment was £208.00. From the records I have seen Mr C repaid  this very 
early on 28 November 2015. Again, I think the checks  that Lending Stream did in asking for 
Mr Cs income  and outgoings went far enough  and didnt suggest  he wouldnt be able to pay 
this loan back.
Mr C applied for loan 3 on 2 December for £80 and this was repaid on the same  day. 
On 23 February 2016 Mr C applied for loan 4 for £50. Up until this point I agree with the 
adjudicator that there was nothing concerning in Mr Cs borrowing history  that suggested  he 
couldnt afford to repay or was in difficulty.  I think it was reasonable to grant these  loans 
without any further  checking of Mr Cs circumstances beyond  asking about his income and 
outgoings. The repayments were small and looked affordable on the basis  of the figures  Mr 
C gave. There was no harmful pattern of borrowing  such as increasing sequential amounts.  
Loan 5 was applied for on 1 March 2016 whilst  loan 4 was still outstanding. At this stage  of 
the lending I would have expected Lending  Stream to have asked Mr C specifically about 
any short  term lending he may have had to check that he wasnt  reliant  on this sort of credit 
or using  borrowing to repay other  borrowing. I  would also have expected Lending Stream  to 
verify what Mr C was saying about his finances  by checking his bank  statements or asking to 
see other evidence  of income  and outgoings.  I cant see from the information provided  that 
Lending Stream did this. 
I havent got Mr Cs bank statements to see what other short  term lending  he had and so I 
cant say what better  checks would have revealed.  The position is the same  for loans 6 and 
7.
At the point of loan 8 I think Lending  Stream  should  have been  concerned  that Mr C was 
borrowing in a harmful and unsustainable  way. He had been borrowing for around 6 months 
and was taking  additional loans in the same month. This suggested that Mr C wasnt  
responsibly managing  his finances and could have  been juggling  short  term lending.  Lending 
Stream ought to have verified Mr Cs income and his regular financial commitments, regular 
living costs  and outgoings and his liabilities  to any other short term lenders (STL). This is 
because his level of declared disposable  income  did not fit with his borrowing pattern.
 
Ref: DRN95785253Lending Stream has agreed to refund the interest and charges on loans 8 to 24 and so I 
dont consider I need to say any more about this aspect of the loans. Mr C was unable  to 
repay what he had borrowed which further suggests that the loans were unsustainable. 
There is a balance outstanding and he wants that balance  written off.
I sympathise with Mr C and I can appreciate that this lending  has caused him difficulties  and 
anxiety, especially when  he was unable to repay it. Refunding the interest  and charges 
means that Mr C only needs to pay back what he has borrowed. Mr C has had the benefit of 
that money and so I think it is only fair that he should pay it back. I would expect  Lending 
Stream to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically if there is any money to be paid back  
after the refund.   
For these reasons I uphold Mr Cs complaint in relation to loans 8 to 24 inclusive.
putting things right
Because Lending Stream should not have  given Mr C some  of the loans he took, its not 
right that Mr C should have to pay interest  or charges on these, or have them affect  his 
credit file in a negative  way. Lending Stream should do as follows:
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr C in respect  of Loans 8 to 24;
write off any interest and charges not yet paid and use the refund to pay off the 
capital outstanding before paying  the balance to Mr C;
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the refunded loans and credit 
account from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest and it 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I wasnt clear  whether Gain Credit had sold the outstanding balance of any loans to a third 
party. If it has, it will need to ensure that Mr C doesnt repay any more than the amount he 
originally borrowed.  It will need to buy back the loans before doing  what Ive said above. If it 
cant do this for any of the loans, it can either:
make  a payment  to the third party  which  has the effect of removing any interest included 
on the loan; or
pay the amount  of any interest directly  to Mr C.
If Mr C has made payments to the third party and has paid more  than the amount he 
originally borrowed,  Gain Credit will also need  to clear any outstanding balance with the third 
party and refund any extra (over and above the amount Mr C originally  borrowed) plus 8% 
simple interest from the date the extra amount was paid to the date of settlement. Gain 
Credit should ask the third party to remove any adverse data about the loan from Mr Cs 
credit file. 
Ref: DRN95785254my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and I direct that Gain Credit LLC do 
as I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9578525