K821x#15Complaint
Ms T has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited has unfairly
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms T took out, will continue  to cover any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Ms T and our 
investigator didnt  think  it had done this. Red Sands has now offered to pay her £750 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  been  caused as a result of this. 
Ms T hasnt accepted  the offer and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances  of Ms Ts 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power  to tell a business what its insurance  
should cost. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Ts policy is too high, she should have 
been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Ms Ts premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Red Sands has treated her differently to how it would have  treated  any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant tell Red Sands  to charge her a lower  premium 
going forwards.
I know this will be disappointing to Ms T. I understand this situation has caused her 
significant upset  as shes had to cancel  her cover and take out a new policy which  doesnt 
cover her pets  existing medical conditions.   
But the thing Red Sands did wrong was not give Ms T the information she needed to 
understand she could end up in the position she now finds herself  in. Where I find something 
has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer 
has lost out. Its not my role to punish Red Sands. 
Ms T chose to take out pet insurance,  so she wanted some  type of cover for her pet. And,
Ref: DRN92361812as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level
of cover it provided. If Ms T hadnt taken  a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover
at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced  level of
cover, where she would still have found herself  in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were
no longer covered. So I think  its likely  she would still have gone ahead  with the lifetime
policy, even if shed  known the premium could  increase significantly in the future.
I recognise that its possible Ms T may have  gone with a different provider offering a similar 
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Ms T would have ended  up with  it might 
have been cheaper, but it might also have been  more expensive. I think its unlikely better  
information about the possible  future costs of the policy would have resulted in Ms T paying 
a significantly lower  amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way - taking  the same sort of factors into account when the premiums  are calculated  
at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms T wasnt so 
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something she knew could happen and was prepared  for. 
The compensation Red Sands has offered recognises that better  information  about the 
longer-term costs of the policy could have  avoided some of the trouble and upset Ms T has 
experienced. Its not compensation  for any financial loss  I can see Ms T has benefitted 
from the policy with a number of claims.  And its also not to help cover her pets  medical 
costs or insurance going forward  although  of course Ms T can use it for that. I think the 
offer fairly compensates Ms T. 
My final decision
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds offer to pay Ms T £750 compensation is 
fair and reasonable and it should now pay this to her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms T to accept
or reject this decision before 4 January 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9236181