K820x#14complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the way Fairmead  Insurance Limited handled a claim under her home 
insurance policy for an escape  of water.
background
In March 2018 Mrs J made  a claim for damage caused by a burst water pipe. Fairmead 
appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property  about eight days  later. It accepted  the 
claim and instructed a contractor to carry out repairs.
There were delays in finding  out which parts of the property contained asbestos. The 
asbestos removal company told the contractor that the contents  of the rooms would need to 
be put into storage  before  the asbestos could be removed. There was some confusion  
between the parties  about this causing a further delay.
In June 2018 Mrs J complained to Fairmead. She was unhappy that three months after 
making the claim she and her elderly husband  were living in cramped conditions with no 
electricity in half the house. She said she wasnt aware of the timescale for the repair  works,  
she was still waiting for an interim contents payment, she hadnt  been told what  was 
happening with the soft furnishings in her home  and she hadnt been reimbursed costs  for 
the plumbing and electrician costs shed paid in connection with the claim.
Fairmead accepted  that its service hadnt  been as good as it should have been. It said it had 
chased its various contractors regarding the outstanding issues. It said it would pay Mrs J 
£500 compensation for its poor service.
In February 2019  Mrs J complained again to Fairmead. She said she was having the same 
problems as previously  with no-one  taking ownership of her claim, a lack of communication, 
delays and poor workmanship. She was unhappy  that she and her elderly, disabled husband 
had been sleeping in a small, cramped bedroom  since early  November  2018.
Fairmead said Mrs J and her husband didnt need alternative accommodation because they 
still had a useable  bedroom and washing/cooking facilities.  But it accepted that Mrs J had 
been inconvenienced by not having  full access to all her home and paid her a disturbance 
allowance of £2,020 in respect of that. It apologised for its poor service  and offered Mrs J a 
further £250 compensation.
Mrs J brought her complaints to this service. Fairmead agreed to us considering both 
complaints together. Our investigator thought Fairmeads offer was fair. As Mrs J didnt 
agree, the matter  has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that the works have  been completed and the claim settled, I believe the only issue that 
remains is the amount  of compensation  Fairmead  should pay Mrs J for the shortcomings in 
its service to her. So Ill focus on that.
Ref: DRN98617142Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble  and upset the insurer  has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
Fairmead accepts that its contractors caused  a delay of about 11 weeks. Mrs J calculates 
that the total delay was 25 weeks. Although its hard to say precisely,  I think  Mrs Js more  
likely to be about right since I think a realistic time estimate for the completion of all the 
works was approximately six months.  Unfortunately  the works took about twice  as long as 
that.
Its clear to me that there were also other  failings on Fairmeads part. Mrs Js claim was 
complex with several different parties  involved, But that doesnt excuse the delays or the fact 
that she wasnt kept informed of what was going on and constantly  had to chase for updates. 
I can understand that this would have caused  her a lot of unnecessary stress. 
Mrs J is in her 70s and her husband who suffers from poor health is in his 80s. While  the 
repairs were going  on, it must have been inconvenient for them  to be crammed into a small 
bedroom and only have use of half of their kitchen together with a bathroom for months. That 
also meant Mrs J couldnt have her family to stay as she would normally  have  done.  
There were various problems caused  by Fairmeads contractors. In particular one room had 
to be replastered and redecorated and another room  redecorated  because  of sub-standard 
work. Workmen damaged  some of Mrs Js contents  while she and her husband were away 
on holiday. They also took out her phone and internet connection. Even though these things 
were put right, it would have been  upsetting  to see the poor workmanship and unnecessary  
damage to her possessions. 
I know Mrs J feels  she should have been  offered alternative accommodation for much 
of the time the repairs were going on. But there was somewhere  to sleep and 
cooking/washing facilities. So I wouldnt normally expect an insurer to offer alternative 
accommodation in these circumstances. I think the amount of £2,020 paid by Fairmead 
to reflect  the fact that Mrs J didnt  have full access to all parts  of her property from the 
end of September to early January 2019  is reasonable to compensate her for the 
inconvenience caused by this.
It wouldnt be fair for me not to recognise  that Fairmead has acknowledged  its service should 
have been much better and that it has offered a total of £750 on top of the disturbance 
allowance to compensate Mrs J for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service. Having 
taken all the circumstances  into account  I think that compensation  of this amount is fair and 
reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J but Ive thought  
about this services approach to awards  made  in similar  circumstances  and I dont think  I can 
fairly award  any more.  
Ref: DRN98617143my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861714