K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Ms L have complained about  the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV)  dealt 
with a claim Mr H made on his travel insurance.  
All references to URV includes its agents  and representatives. 
background 
Mr H and Ms L have a travel insurance  policy underwritten by URV. 
Mr H went to Bali and was involved in a motor bike accident in September 2017. He suffered  
injuries and was taken to a private  hospital  by the locals.
A number  of telephone conversations took place between Mr H, Ms L and URV. Ive 
summarised the key conversations  and chain  of events below:
11 September 2017
Mr H had the accident and was taken  by locals to a private hospital in Bali. He found  it 
difficult to get through to the URV  emergency  helpline.
When Mr H got through to URV,  he told them he was in a private hospital  URV  told him to 
get a taxi to a public  hospital,  without paying  the bill. Mr H said he couldnt do this as he was 
badly injured. He sent URV  copies  of his X-ray. 
12 September 2017
Ms L called URV to ask what Mr H should  do as the nearby public hospital was full and so 
he couldnt go there. Mr Hs friend,  a surgeon in the UK, emailed URV to say Mr H should be 
flown back to the UK for an operation. 
As there were no beds available in the public hospital, Mr H couldnt be transferred on this 
day.
13 September 2017
URV arranged for Mr H to be transferred to the public hospital  by ambulance but there was 
an issue with guarantee of payment  (GOP). The private hospital wouldnt let Mr H go without 
GOP but URV explained  that the hospital  kept rejecting  its GOP.  
The private hospital discharge report said Mr H wasnt fit to fly but could be transported by 
ambulance. 
Mr H arrived at the public hospital but there  were  problems with the GOP. The hospital 
wouldnt treat Mr H without GOP  and this hadnt been pre-arranged by URV. URV  told Mr H 
and Ms L it would get an agent involved to progress things. A number of calls took place 
about this and Ms L told URV that the hospital was full, Mr H was in a corridor and wasnt  
being seen to. GOP went through  at 10pm UK time which was early morning in Bali. Mr H 
had spent the night in the hospital corridor.  
14 September 2017
Ref: DRN95748832Mr H called URV to say that he hadnt had any medical attention and his leg was swelling 
up. He still hadnt been moved to a room and was feeling extremely vulnerable.  URV 
contacted its agent  who said the room was being  made ready. Ms L called URV to say the 
hospital wouldnt be able to do the surgery until Monday  18 September. 
Mr H was moved into a room but as the hospital said it couldnt do the surgery until Monday, 
Ms L and Mr H said they wanted Mr H to be moved  to another hospital. 
The medical director of URV made a number of calls to Mr H, Ms L and Mr Hs son and 
spoke about the risks involved in air ambulances. 
Ms L got a quote for approximately £47,000 for a private air ambulance. 
The medical directors final call of the day with Mr H and Mr Hs son discussed a plan  
which was to wait for surgery  on Monday but that if it was delayed beyond  this then URV 
would implement plan B  which  was an air ambulance  to Singapore for treatment at a 
hospital there. Mr H and his son agreed  with this plan. 
15 September 2017
The hospitals medical report said Mr H wanted to go to Australia for treatment   it said the 
surgery was being  postponed due to low level of thrombocytes. URVs notes show  it wasnt 
sure if Mr H was fit to fly. 
Ms L got a second quote for an Australian air ambulance company for approximately  
£60,000. She booked the first company and paid them £46,800 for Mr H to be transported to 
the UK by stretcher. 
The medical director called and spoke to Mr Hs son who explained that Mr H had arranged 
his own repatriation. The medical director said he had an air ambulance  company ready but 
Mr H said it was too late. 
16 September 2017
The public hospitals medical report recommended  that Mr H was repatriated to the UK for 
surgery. A doctor from the air ambulance company arrived  in Bali but said he didnt know  
about the stretcher arrangement.   
17 September 2017
The air ambulance  company was due to repatriate  Mr H on this day  the doctor and 
paramedic from the company did medical checks and confirmed Mr H was fit to fly. But the 
company had failed  to book the promised flights and Mr H wasnt comfortable  with the 
alternative they had proposed. He asked  for the contract to be cancelled  and booked  an air 
ambulance with the Australian air ambulance  company instead. 
18 September 2017
The public hospitals medical report confirmed Mr H was fit to fly. URV called for an update  
and asked if Mr H was now back in the UK. His son explained that Mr H was still in the 
process of getting  his own air ambulance. Ms L flew out to Bali.
Ref: DRN95748833Mr H told URV that he expected it to cover his costs  for the first air ambulance  company 
which had failed and also the Australian  company.  He said he had to do it himself due to the 
lack of support  from URV. 
19 September 2017
URV discussed the situation with Mr H and Ms L and confirmed it could still arrange 
transport for Mr H to have treatment in Singapore. Mr G agreed (and subsequently  cancelled 
the Australian air ambulance contract).
20 September 2017 
URV arranged the transfer to Singapore. The medical report from the hospital in Bali 
confirmed Mr H was fit to fly. 
21 September 2017 
Mr H was taken to Singapore by air ambulance organised and paid for by URV. URV  also 
booked a hotel  for Ms L.
There were GOP issues at the Singapore  hospital  and the hotel booked  for Ms L
was too far away and she asked to be moved  closer to the hospital. 
On this day, the payment  of £59,259.99 went through to the Australian air ambulance
company. However  Mr H was refunded £45,744 on 6 October 2017. The total paid to the 
Australian air ambulance company was approximately £13,515.
Mr H is unhappy at the length of time it took to have an operation  and the communication  
with URV.  He complained to URV and subsequently to this office. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended  that URV pay Mr H £1,000  
compensation for the stress, frustration and lack of communication. She didnt think  URV 
was responsible for the cost of the air ambulances Mr H had booked and cancelled himself.  
URV agreed  with the investigators opinion  but Mr H disagreed. Mr H said URV should  be 
responsible for all of his financial  losses  as he had organised the air ambulances  due to 
URVs failures to help him promptly. He also said more weight should  be given to the 
medical professionals in the UK who had been  in contact  with him and had been giving him 
advice. They had provided their opinions on what they thought of URVs service and 
conversations they had had with the medical director. 
And so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Ref: DRN95748834Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  FCA regulations also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
URVs policy says:
Your case  may be referred to one of the doctors  on the team  who will, if necessary, 
contact you to ascertain  the exact  nature of your injury or illness  and then put in 
place the appropriate strategy to ensure that you receive the correct  treatment  and if 
required, advice  on your repatriation.
It also says:
Where the 24 hour emergency  assistance  service has not been notified  or has not 
agreed the costs,  we reserve the right to decline associated costs.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld  and largely  for the same  
reasons as already explained  by the investigator. But I dont think URV should pay for Mr Hs 
financial losses as a result of the air ambulances he booked himself.  Our investigators 
opinion is overall,  an accurate  summary of the facts of the case. I agree with all the 
conclusions she has reached. 
In this decision, Ill outline the areas where  URV failed  to handle the claim promptly, in line 
with its responsibility under the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
Ive seen that URVs communication was lacking  and that Ms L and Mr H had to initiate most 
of the contact with URV. Ms L made  over 40 calls to URV over a period of three days  and 
expressed her frustration a number  of times. In addition, they didnt always  get call backs 
promptly when promised  and as a result Mr H and Ms L had difficulty contacting URVs 
emergency assistance line immediately. I would expect a customer  to be able to get through 
to an emergency  assistance line quickly and without  difficulty.
As a result, both Mr H and Ms L suffered stress  and anxiety as a result  of URVs failure to 
communicate effectively.  
Ref: DRN95748835In addition, URV didnt  ensure the GOPs  were  in place at the hospitals in Bali or Singapore 
and this caused further frustration and anxiety at an already difficult  and stressful  time. I do 
not doubt the extent of worry this situation  has caused Mr H and his family. But I have to 
consider URVs actions and its specific failures to consider whether it is responsible  for Mr 
Hs losses. 
The facts  of the case are outlined  in the background above.  Mr H says Ms L had to arrange 
air ambulances as a result of URVs failures. And I can see why he would feel this way with 
the number of calls that had to be made  to chase matters and the situation he was left in. 
But I have to consider  whether it would be fair to hold URV responsible for the costs of the 
air ambulances organised by Ms L.
Mr H had spoken to the medical director at URV on 14 September 2017 and agreed  that he 
would wait until Monday 18 September 2017 to have the operation in Bali. If the hospital said 
it was going to take longer  than this, then URV would implement plan B which was to fly Mr 
H to a hospital in Singapore as waiting any longer than that wouldnt be acceptable. But on 
the following  day - the 15 September 2017, Mr H told URV he had arranged for his own air 
ambulance to take him back to the UK. He had booked the air ambulance before letting URV 
know he was going to do this.
The air ambulance  didnt  do as it said it would and so Mr H booked  an alternative  with an 
Australian company,  at a further cost.  URV  telephoned Mr H to ask for an update  and when 
it learnt he was having difficulties,  it said it could still help him and arranged  an air 
ambulance to fly to Singapore where he had his operation.
There were a few hiccups in Singapore  with the GOP and the hospital chased Mr H for 
payment. But URV eventually sorted  this out and paid for the flights,  transfers, hospital 
costs, treatment and repatriation. 
Based on the above timeline  and chain of events, I dont think I can hold URV responsible 
for the costs of the two air ambulances booked by Ms L and Mr H as they had been booked  
before URV were told. URV wasnt aware that the agreed plan on 14 September 2017 was 
unsatisfactory to Mr H and so it didnt have an opportunity to arrange an earlier  air 
ambulance to Singapore. On balance, I think URV would have booked the air ambulance to 
Singapore if Mr H said he didnt want to have the operation  in Bali as essentially this is what 
it did when Mr H told URV he was arranging his own air ambulance. 
I can completely understand Mr Hs frustration and Ive carefully considered the 
communication he had with other  medical  professionals here in the UK. Ive reviewed  all of 
the available  transcripts to consider the advice Mr H had been  given.  But this information  
doesnt change  the fact that URV werent  aware that Mr H had booked  his own air 
ambulances until after he had already made  arrangements. In a nutshell, Mr H was advised  
by URV  to have the operation in Bali but if that didnt  happen by a specific date, he would be 
transferred to a hospital in Singapore. And ultimately, Mr H agreed to this course of action. 
And so I dont think its fair or reasonable for URV to pay the costs of the two air ambulances  
booked by Ms L and Mr H. 
However, I do think the lack of updates  and the amount of chasing Mr H and Ms L had to do 
caused a significant amount of stress. And for this I think URV should  pay Mr H £1,000  
compensation to recognise the impact  of this.
Ref: DRN95748836I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have explained how I 
have reached my conclusions based  on the circumstances of the case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct  Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr H £1,000  compensation for the significant stress  and 
frustration caused  to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9574883