K821x#15complaint
Mrs T is a director of a limited company Ill refer to as C. Shes  complained on Cs behalf  that 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) didnt let them know that a claim had been made 
against their commercial vehicle policy. 
background
Mrs T notified RSA after their vehicle was involved  in an accident. RSA said Mrs T accepted  
liability and agreed  it could continue to deal with the claim. Mrs T said she hadnt known the 
other driver was definitely going to claim and only found out when she came to renew  the 
policy. She thought  RSA should have let her know about the claim earlier. 
RSA thought Mrs T was aware of the incident and initially  said it wasnt  required to update  
her. But it accepted it should have communicated better and paid her £50. 
Mrs T didnt  think  this was enough  and brought her complaint to us. She said not knowing 
about the claim until renewal meant she didnt have much time to find an alternative.  She 
said her premium had increased  as a result of the claim and she would have been able to 
shop around if she had more time. She thought £500 would be a more  appropriate amount 
of compensation.  
Our investigator thought RSA should  have told Mrs T about  the claim sooner  and asked it to 
increase the compensation to £150.  
Mrs T accepted our investigators  recommendation but felt shed been put at risk of declaring 
incorrect information when buying a new policy. She also said RSA had told her it should 
have updated  her.
RSA didnt agree. It said Mrs T should  have expected that her premium would rise as a 
result of the accident.  And it doesnt  issue closure or update letters  where the customer  isnt 
making their own claim. It thought the crux of the complaint  was that Mrs T was unhappy that 
Cs premium had increased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mrs Ts told us, Im satisfied the crux of Cs complaint is that they 
werent told sooner  about the claim and the inconvenience this caused. 
Ive listened to the call where  Mrs T reported  the claim. I accept she knew  about the incident, 
accepted liability  and agreed  for RSA to take over the claim. So, on that basis she would 
most likely have needed to let any new insurer know an incident  had taken place, if it asked 
about any accidents or damage,  even if she didnt know there was definitely a claim. 
Having said that, given the importance of a policyholder  providing  accurate information when 
buying a policy,  I do think its good  industry practice for insurers to let their customers  know  
when a claim has been recorded  and the outcome of that claim. So, I think it would have 
been fair and reasonable for RSA to have done  this, even if its not its process. 
Ref: DRN98228022In this case Mrs T did find out about  the claim before she looked for a new policy, which  
means she was able to give the correct information going forward. So, while I accept  she 
could have provided the incorrect  information  as she didnt know  there had definitely  been a 
claim, that didnt happen. And I cant award  any compensation for the inconvenience of 
something that might have happened  but didnt. 
Mrs T said she received the renewal  paperwork on 21 January for the renewal was due on 
31 January. She said this meant she spent time on the phone trying to sort out what  had 
happened with the claim and also in phoning other insurers to get a competitive quote. Mrs T 
said in addition to this C had to find extra money in a short  amount of time to pay the 
increased premium. 
I can see the claim increased Cs premium at renewal. I think  Mrs T would always  have had 
the inconvenience of having  to phone around  other  insurers if she wasnt happy with that 
quote. And its likely  she wouldnt have done this until she knew what the renewal premium 
was anyway. However, shes also said she had to spend time trying to find out what  had 
happened, and I think that would have caused  some inconvenience. I also accept that if 
shed known about the claim  and not just the incident - sooner shed have been able to 
consider how this would affect  Cs premium going forward  and budget  accordingly.  
Having taken all this into account, I think it would have been  fair and reasonable for RSA to 
have told C about  the claim sooner and in not doing  so has inconvenienced  C. To 
compensate C for this RSA should pay C a total of £150 for their inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay C £150 
compensation for their inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9822802