K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC charged for an unauthorised overdraft 
after they repaid their mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs B wanted to repay their mortgage and asked Barclays for a redemption 
statement. Mr and Mrs B repaid the mortgage  in early July 2018. They  withdrew the balance 
from the mortgage current account  about  £80. Later in July, Barclays  debited  £81 interest  
and this made the account overdrawn.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said the 
redemption statement showed the £81 interest charge would be debited.  
Mr and Mrs B said they understood what the adjudicator  said and must have overlooked  the 
part of the statement that said charges were pending. However, they thought  this didnt  
seem fair. Mr B said Barclays  should  have taken the £81 before confirming the mortgage 
was repaid and the deeds were  released.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage account and mortgage current account with Barclays. They  
asked Barclays for a redemption statement. Barclays provided a redemption statement 
dated 27 June  2018 which was valid for 30 days. It set out the outstanding mortgage and 
overdraft balance and the total amount due. 
Barclays also sent Mr and Mrs B a statement for the mortgage  current account dated  29 
June 2018. This said interest for 31 May to 28 June  2018 would be debited on 23 July 2018.
Mr and Mrs B repaid the mortgage on 4 July 2018. There was a balance  of about £81 in their 
current account.
On 5 July 2018 Mr and Mrs B withdrew  £80 from the account.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 13 July 2018 saying the charge on their property had 
been released. It sent a letter on the same  day saying the mortgage had been fully repaid.
On 23 July 2018 Barclays debited £81 interest. The current account became overdrawn by 
£80. Mr and Mrs B received a letter from Barclays in mid August 2018  saying the current 
account was overdrawn by £80. They contacted Barclays for an explanation.
Ive listened to the recording of that call. Barclays  explained that the overdraft was due to the 
interest debited in July. It said that when the mortgage was redeemed  this payment was left 
Ref: DRN97392962in the current  account  for the interest  payment. Barclays explained that the account  was 
overdrawn because Mr and Mrs B had withdrawn the money. 
Mr B said he was annoyed at Barclays poor service and thought  Barclays  should sort it out. 
Barclays said it would raise this as a complaint. But it said it considered  the debt was 
legitimately owed and didnt intend to write  it off. Barclays said until the debt was paid 
Mr and Mrs B would be contacted about  the debt.  It explained the possible consequences  
such as a default on their credit file. 
Mr B says in late 2018 he received unpleasant communications  from Barclays  about the 
debt. And found  out his credit score  had gone down.
did Barclays make  an error?
The statement  for Mr and Mrs Bs current account showed the upcoming interest debit under 
the heading Charges coming up. It explained  what this was for, how much  it was and when 
it would  be debited. The redemption statement also said it might be necessary for Barclays  
to place the account in credit to cover  debit interest and ensure the overdraft borrowing is 
satisfied in full. 
I dont think Barclays made an error  when  it debited the payment  this was interest  due. 
Barclays made Mr and Mrs B aware  of the upcoming interest  payment. And when Mr B 
contacted Barclays  in August 2018 Barclays explained what  had happened.  It made it clear 
that it expected  the debt to be paid.  In the circumstances, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to require  Barclays to write  off the debt or remove any information recorded on 
Mr and Mrs Bs credit  files.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9739296