K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Between 2015 and 2018 Mr M borrowed four loans from Quick Quid  as follows:
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £400 2.5.15 21.8.15
2 £200 2.9.15 21.12.15
3 £400 13.2.16 5.1.17
4 £150 6.7.18 25.10.18
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought that loans one to three 
shouldnt have been provided to him. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  Because  the parties havent been  able to 
resolve the compliant informally its been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr M could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN91504922I think its important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid  was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments  were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. In light of this Ive come  to the 
conclusion that Quick Quid shouldnt have provided  loans one to three.  I say this because:
In relation to loan one I note from Quick Quids files that the primary loan repayment of 
£434 represented a significant  proportion of Mr Ms declared income - which  was around 
£1,093 per month. In these circumstances I think that Quick Quid  should reasonably 
have been concerned  that there was a significant risk that Mr M wouldnt be able to meet 
his commitments  to it without having to borrow again;
Mr M did struggle to make  the contractual repayment to Quick Quid for loan one - initially 
the final payment  due of £496 was deferred  by a week,  but this was then further 
rescheduled for repayment via three weekly payments. The loan was eventually repaid 
around two months after the originally agreed  date;
loan two was given within two weeks of the prior loan being repaid. Whilst it was for a 
lower value, I think that the fact Mr M was needing to borrow  again, coupled  with the 
difficulties hed encountered in repaying loan one, ought to have highlighted to Quick  
Quid that this loan too was unlikely to be sustainably affordable  to Mr M;
Mr M was unable  to meet the first interest  instalment  on loan two when it fell due, and a 
pre-default repayment plan was then established  which  involved four monthly  
repayments  in practice extending  the loan by three months. One of the agreed 
payments was missed;
there was a gap of just under two months between  repayment of loan two and the 
provision of loan three.  But, given  the repayment difficulties experienced with the 
previous two loans,  and the fact that the loan amount was double  that of loan two, I think  
that Quick Quid shouldve recognised that it was more likely than not Mr M was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous loans left in his finances.
There was a break of around 18 months between  repayment of loan three  and the granting 
of loan four. I think this is a sufficient period of time for Quick Quid  to reasonably consider 
that Mr Ms financial  circumstances might have changed materially. Repayments to this loan 
were relatively modest compared to Mr Ms declared monthly salary which had, by then, 
increased to £1,730 and his declared  expenses of £455. I think  that the checks made by 
Ref: DRN91504923Quick Quid were proportionate and I dont see any reason why it should have thought  that 
this loan wasnt sustainable.
putting things right
To put things right I require Quick Quid to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  one to three inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on the refunded  interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file relating to loans one 
to three.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. CashEuroNet  UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9150492