K822xcomplaint
Miss Js unhappy that a direct debit making  a minimum payment to her credit card wasnt  
claimed by TSB Bank plc. She says this led to her incurring charges and interest and its 
impacted her credit score. She wants the direct debit set up properly, a refund of interest and 
charges and the adverse  information removed from her credit  file.
background 
TSB says that Miss J complained in 2016  about  why a direct  debit wasnt  being claimed and 
she was given a response.  So, she shouldve known that the direct  debit she set up in 2017  
wouldnt have worked as nothing had changed. But it accepted  there was confusion  about 
her 2017  complaint and it offered £50 compensation for the delays that occurred. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said:
Even though  TSB told Miss J in 2016  that it couldnt set up a Direct Debit  on her 
account until shed  told it of the outcome of a PPI claim, it still accepted  and set up a 
direct debit  with her bank in June 2017.
Her statements  for the following two months  said it would take the minimum monthly 
payment by the direct debit but it didnt attempt to claim them as itd advised. As a 
result TSB should pay Miss J £50 compensation for the misinformation and refund 
the £12 over limit fee from September 2017 as her account wouldnt have been over 
the limit had the direct debit been  claimed.
Miss Js account is currently over its limit and requires  payment. But this isnt due to 
TSB failing  to collect the direct  debit as she hasnt made a payment into it for over 14 
months. TSB has sent Miss J statements and written to her about this asking for 
payment. Its ultimately Miss Js responsibility to ensure the required monthly 
payments are made  as set out in her agreement. Its not therefore fair to require TSB 
to do any more.
Miss J should tell TSB of the result of her PPI claim and it should then take the 
necessary action based on the outcome. If Miss J is experiencing  financial difficulties 
and cannot make  her payments she should  speak  to TSB so that it can try to help.
Miss J says she thinks the level of compensation isnt appropriate given the extent  of the 
issues shes faced with TSB. Despite what she was told previously TSB allowed her to set 
up a direct debit as normal. Shes had to pay £440  more as a result of its error. Miss J has 
asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB told Miss J in 2016  the reason why a direct debit couldnt be set up on her account.  It 
also said what it needed to know before  one could be set up. 
Despite this Miss J asked TSB in 2017 for a direct  debit  to be set up to pay the minimum 
payments to her credit card. TSB acknowledged this request  and wrote  to her saying the 
Ref: DRN92850532direct debit wouldnt come into effect until the next statement and that a message would 
appear on that statement confirming when the first direct debit would go through. It also said 
she should continue  making manual payments until this message appears.
The 3 July 2017 statement said the first direct debit would be taken from her bank  on 28 July 
2017. The following  months statement also said the direct  debit would be taken on 29 
August 2017.
Miss Js bank confirms the direct  debit was set up but TSB didnt claim any payments on it 
and its now been  cancelled.
As a result Miss Js TSB card account  went over its limit and she incurred a £12 over limit 
charge.
Although TSB says Miss J shouldnt have  set up the direct debit as she knew  nothing  had 
changed since 2016 I think once TSB accepted  the direct debit request from her she was 
entitled to rely on its repeated assertions it would make the requested payments. 
Its clear TSB made a mistake by telling Miss J her direct debit would  be used to make  the 
minimum payments in these two months.  And as result of that error she incurred  the £12 
over limit charge because  if a direct debit  payment  had been taken the account wouldnt 
have bene over its limit. So, I think its fair TSB should reimburse this £12 charge.
TSB has also clearly misadvised Miss J and thats caused her distress  and inconvenience. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
investigator that an award of £50 compensation for this is fair and reasonable.
Even though  TSB couldve handled  the direct debit better it was and remained Miss Js 
responsibility to monitor  her card account and ensure she maintained  the agreed payments 
into it. She would  also have quickly been  able to see that the direct debit wasnt being  taken  
from her bank account and couldve made alternative manual payments. 
Unfortunately Miss J also didnt make  any payments into her TSB card account in April and 
May 2017. And although a payment was made  in June 2017 there havent been any more 
since then. 
Miss J says shes  lost £440  as a result of what TSB has done. But apart  from the £12 over 
the limit charge  from September 2017  it appears  TSB has correctly  applied interest and 
charges on her account. It was entitled to apply the over limit charges from October 2017 to 
April 2018. 
Overall I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask TSB to refund any more than the one £12 
over the limit fee. And, although I recognise  Miss Js frustration and strength of feeling,  I 
dont see any compelling reason  to increase the amount of compensation to be paid to her 
or change  the proposed outcome in this case.
If Miss J is experiencing financial difficulties  she should  contact  TSB.  It has an obligation  to 
treat her positively and sympathetically while she remains in financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN92850533my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right TSB Bank plc should, if it hasnt done  so already, 
refund the £12 over the limit charge to Miss J and pay her £50 compensation. 
TSB must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Miss J accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If TSB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss J how much  its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285053