K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with what  CIS General Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his 
legal expenses insurance policy
background
Mr G has legal expense insurance  with CIS. In July 2016 he got in touch as he wanted to 
make a claim in relation  to damage  caused to his property  by the police. CIS referred  the 
matter to panel solicitors  for them to assess whether the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success (as required by the policy terms). The panel solicitors didnt think it did. Mr G was 
unhappy with that and CIS agreed to refer the matter to its in house solicitors for review. 
Between November  2016 and June 2017  Mr G provided further information  for that review.  
He was told in June it should be completed  by the end of that month.  That didnt happen. So 
Mr G contacted CIS again in April 2018  and made a complaint about the time this had taken. 
Following that CIS asked  for counsels opinion on whether the case had prospects of 
success. He advised in May it didnt. Mr G subsequently asked  for a discussion with counsel  
about this which took place in August. Counsel  then provided a revised  opinion  on an aspect 
of the claim which  hadnt previously been covered. He said this didnt have reasonable 
prospect of success either. 
CIS accepted it had delayed in reviewing Mr Gs claim and in dealing  with his complaint. It 
offered to pay a total of £650  to recognise  the impact on Mr G of this. Our investigator  
thought it was reasonable of CIS to rely on the legal  opinion  the barrister  had provided. She 
agreed there  had been delay in dealing with the claim but thought  the £650 CIS had offered 
did enough to put things  right. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said there had been  significant delay  in dealing with his claim and that 
CIS failed  to make reasonable adjustments it had agreed for his disabilities. When  it then 
provided instructions  to the barrister it still missed out an aspect of his claim. Mr G said he 
wanted to discuss  the further  opinion the barrister  issued with him but CIS wouldnt  allow  him 
to do so. And he didnt  agree this claim wasnt covered  by the policy. 
Mr G said as a result  of the delay  he was very stressed as he didnt know whether he was 
covered for the claims he wanted  to make. And the impact of this was made  worse  by his 
disabilities. He didnt  contact the business during  this period because he wrongly  trusted that 
action was being taken on his case. And limitation  expired on one of his claims in January 
2018. So by the time matters were finally reviewed  by CIS this had been missed.
Mr G said the proposed compensation didnt do enough to recognise the impact of what  
happened on him (taking into account  his disabilities) and his mother and wasnt  enough to 
get his property back from the police. He said he wanted CIS to arrange  a further discussion 
with the barrister so he could be sure all of his issues had been  understood
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
initial assessment  of the claim
In common with other legal expenses insurances  polices Mr Gs will only provide cover  
where a claim has a reasonable chance of success.  And thats something which  should  be 
assessed by a qualified lawyer. So I think it was right that, on receipt  of the claim, CIS asked 
Ref: DRN93864042panel solicitors to consider this. Those solicitors didnt think, on the basis of the available 
evidence, the case was likely to be successful. 
I think CIS was entitled to rely on that opinion but I think  it then treated Mr G fairly  in asking 
in house solicitors to review matters following the complaint he made. And there doesnt 
seem to have been delay  in progressing matters between November 2016 and June 2017  as 
during this time Mr G was providing further  information in support of his claim. 
June 2017 to April 2018
I dont think its in dispute CIS got things wrong  here. In particular after Mr G had provided 
information about his claim it doesnt appear  to have moved  forward  between June 2017 and 
April 2018. Thats a period of around 10 months. I appreciate Mr G wasnt in contact with 
CIS during this period  but hes told us that was because he trusted things  were  being done 
on his case. I understand that and I dont think he should have had to chase CIS to ensure 
his claim moved forward. I appreciate it will have been extremely  frustrating  for Mr G to learn  
that hadnt happened when he got in touch  with CIS in April 2018. 
I also recognise the adjustments Mr G requested because  of his disabilities include,  in 
summary, being give clear explanations of decisions and taking time to ensure he 
understands whats being said.  The delay  by CIS here wont have met his needs in relation 
to this and I agree it will have caused  unnecessary distress  and uncertainty.  I recognise that 
because of his disabilities  the impact on him will have been greater than it might otherwise 
have been. Ive taken this into account  when thinking about what  CIS needs to do to put 
things right. 
after April 2018
Counsels opinion on the case was provided in May 2018. That said the case didnt have 
prospects of success in excess of 50%.  The barrister explained that in relation to the 
damage to Mr Gs property there  would  be difficulties in showing  this was in good working 
order when seized and so what damage  had been  caused to it. He also thought there  were  
some issues  around limitation. 
As CIS had a clear legal  opinion  which said the case didnt  have reasonable prospects of 
success I dont think it did anything wrong  in relying  on this. But as Mr G was unhappy with 
that advice and had questions about it I think it was reasonable CIS organised a conference 
call with the barrister so Mr G could discuss these points in more  detail.  
After that the barrister  issued some further advice and Mr G wanted to have a further 
discussion about that. CIS didnt agree. I can understand  why Mr G wanted to have that 
discussion but I dont  think CISs  decision was unreasonable.  Mr G had already had the 
opportunity to have  a detailed discussion with the barrister. Ive seen the note of that 
meeting and I can see it was wide ranging and Mr G had an opportunity to explain his 
position and question the barrister in some detail  about  what hed said.  And the barrister 
then explained  his view on issues he hadnt previously considered  in a further advice note. 
I appreciate Mr G might disagree with that opinion but I think it sets out the issues  
reasonably clearly. So I dont think CIS acted unfairly in deciding it didnt need  to arrange a 
further discussion between him and the barrister, particularly as on the evidence it now had 
none of the claims  Mr G wanted to make were  covered by his legal expenses insurance  
policy. 
Ref: DRN93864043Mr G didnt agree a claim for the return of his goods  wasnt covered by his policy  as he said 
it didnt specifically exclude this. Ive looked at the policy terms and I appreciate  there isnt a 
specific exclusion. But the policy sets out whats covered in the What  is insured section and 
a claim of this nature  simply doesnt  fall within  that. So I dont  think CIS did anything wrong in 
saying this isnt something the policy covered. However, I agree with Mr G that without the 
delay by CIS hed have  found out this wasnt covered at a much earlier stage. 
putting things  right
Mr G says because of the delay by CIS in moving his case forward  the limitation date for part 
of his claim expired  and that meant it didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Ive 
looked at the barristers  opinion and I can see limitation was an issue  in relation to parts of 
the claim.  But there were also other reasons  why he said the claim was unlikely to succeed. 
The only part where it seems to have been the primary reason for concluding the claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects relates  to an allegation  of wrongful seizure  of Mr Gs goods  by 
the police. 
However, Mr Gs key concern is about damage  he believes was then caused to those goods 
and I dont think thats something his policy would assist with. It does cover events which  
cause (or are likely to cause) physical damage  to material property owned by, or the legal 
responsibility of, the Family,  provided  that the amount in dispute  exceeds £100. But the 
issue in this case (and the key reason why the barrister concluded the claim didnt have  
reasonable prospects of success) is that it wasnt possible to say what  condition  Mr Gs 
property was in when it was seized and so what, if any, damage had been caused to it. I 
accept Mr G may disagree with that opinion but I think  its one CIS was entitled to rely on. So 
even setting aside  the limitation issue I dont think this claim is one his policy  would have 
covered. 
As a result it doesnt  appear the delay in moving the claim forward has caused Mr G to lose 
out on cover  that would otherwise have  been  provided by CIS. And I havent seen anything 
to show that if Mr G had been  told this sooner  hed have funded his own legal action  within 
the limitation period. So I think its the distress  and uncertainty caused to Mr G by the delay 
in dealing with his claim that I need  to focus  on here.  
CIS has offered  to pay a total of £650  in relation  to this (which also includes payment  to 
reflect problems in dealing  with the complaints he made).  Mr G says that compensation 
didnt do enough  to recognise the impact of what happened on him (taking  into account his 
disabilities) and his mother  and wasnt enough to get his property back from the police. 
Ive thought carefully about how this. There was significant delay by CIS in moving the 
complaint forward. I agree  that Mr G will not only have been unclear about  what was 
happening with his case during this period but will have  been extremely  disappointed  to then 
find out that it hadnt moved forward. I accept that will have been exacerbated by the fact 
CIS only referred matters  to in house solicitors  following his previous complaint. So he could 
reasonably have expected it would then try and move matters forward as quickly  as 
possible. That didnt  happen. And without this delay Mr G would have had more information 
at a much  earlier stage as to why his claim wasnt covered. There were also further delays 
by CIS in dealing with the complaints he made.  
However, while Mr G says the amount CIS has offered isnt enough to fund a claim against 
the police  that isnt the intention of the payment. Its to recognise  the trouble and upset he 
Ref: DRN93864044was caused as a result of what CIS got wrong. I understand Mr Gs mother  was also upset 
by what happened  and I was sorry to hear about that. But, under our rules,  its only the 
impact on him I can consider because hes the person  bringing  the complaint to us. I have 
taken into account  that seeing  his mother upset is likely in itself to have been distressing for 
him. 
I appreciate CIS has already offered a relatively  significant sum of £650  in order to recognise 
the impact on Mr G of what it got wrong.  But taking into account  his particular circumstances 
and that the impact on him will have been  greater  because  of his disabilities I think  a higher 
amount would be appropriate  here. I think CIS should pay him an additional £150 meaning 
the total compensation would be £800. 
responses to my provisional  decision
CIS didnt  have any further comments on what  Id said but Mr G did. In summary he said:
The initial conference  with the barrister  had been  arranged  in part as a reasonable 
adjustment for his disability and so as further  advice was then issued another conference  
should have been  arranged (he said CIS initially agreed to this). 
Hed made general inquiries about  the wrongful seizure of his goods but was asked 
about limitation before any discussion of the merits of the case took place. He said the 
delay by CIS had denied  him the opportunity  to get an opinion on this issue  and he 
would never know  for sure what this would have said. He thought he should  receive  
compensation for this. 
Mr G didnt agree the compensation  Id already  recommended did enough to recognise 
the impact of what had happed  on him. 
He asked for a further discussion before I reached my decision on the complaint. He was 
also concerned  about  being  identified in a published  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr G would  like another opportunity  to discuss the complaint with me. So Ive 
carefully considered  whether that would be appropriate taking into account his particular 
needs. I note Mr G has already had the opportunity to let us know  his thinking about the 
complaint in response to the investigator and in a detailed and lengthy conversation prior to 
me reaching  my provisional decision. 
And hes also had the opportunity to respond  to that provisional decision which  hes done. I 
understand the points hes made  in response  and I dont think there  is a need for a further  
discussion. In my view I have the information  I need  to reach a fair decision on the 
complaint. 
further conference  with the barrister
I understand why Mr G wanted to have a further  discussion  with the barrister. I recognise 
that additional advice had been provided by that barrister. But as I said in my provisional 
Ref: DRN93864045decision there had already  been a detailed and wide ranging discussion over the issues  prior 
to that taking place.  
I appreciate CIS may then have  indicated it would look to arrange a further  conference but 
that wasnt the view it ultimately reached. And taking into account  the limited  extent of the 
further advice  provided  by the barrister I dont  think it acted unreasonably in coming to that 
decision. So I dont  think there is more that CIS needs to do here. 
wrongful seizure  of goods
I agree  that without  the delay by CIS its possible Mr G could  have obtained an opinion on 
this aspect of his claim without the issue of limitation playing a part in this. But, as I said in 
my provisional decision, I havent seen evidence to show  that Mr G would then have been 
able to fund his own legal action. However,  I do accept there is a loss of opportunity  here. 
But I think that the compensation Ive already recommended does  enough to recognise the 
impact of that on him. I appreciate Mr G doesnt  agree but I think a total figure of £800 is 
appropriate here. 
other issues
Mr G is also concerned he could be identified from this decision.  Ive explained our approach 
to publishing  decisions to him and having reviewed this decision Im satisfied it wouldnt be 
possible to identify him from it. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right CIS General Insurance 
Limited will need to pay Mr G a total of £800. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9386404