K822xcomplaint
Miss C is unhappy TSB Bank plc rejected an incoming payment into her account on several
occasions.
background 
Miss C was being sent a payment for $30,000  USD  from a company in America. She
attempted the payment  on several  occasions,  but none were successful. Ive listed the
attempted payments below. This is based on evidence supplied by Miss C including an email
chain between herself and the sender of the funds  and evidence supplied by TSB.
Payment attempt  1  Miss C provided  the first set of payment details to the sender of
the funds on 2 August 2018. Unfortunately, TSB had recently updated its
international payment details, so the IBAN and BIC codes Miss C gave to the sender
were incorrect. This meant the payment was unsuccessful and Miss C was notified
of this by the sender on 10 August 2018.  Miss C has said she isnt claiming for any
losses arising from this issue as she accepts the change in IBAN  and BIC codes
took place shortly before her payment and led to the mix-up. She says this wasnt a
result of any deception by TSB and so hasnt  included it in her losses. However, she
mentioned this for background and to add context  to her actual complaint.
Payment attempt  2  Miss C attended branch on 13 August 2018  to remove a block
that had been placed on her account  following  her attempt  to re-access her online
banking. Miss Cs card was blocked on 12 August  2018. Miss C had called TSB as
she was trying to access her online banking and an error  code appeared asking her
to call. Because she failed security, she was asked to attend  branch with ID to have
the block removed.  During this visit Miss C was given a printout of her account  with
the IBAN and BIC codes on. She sent these to the sender of the funds on 15 August
2018. The sender let her know that the IBAN was incorrect on 16 August 2018 and
so the payment could not be processed. The IBAN  used  on this occasion  was two
digits short.
Payment attempt  3  Miss C called TSB on 28 August 2018 and was given the
correct IBAN and BIC codes. She notified  the sender  of the new details on 31
August 2018 and according to TSB the payment  was received by it on 5 September
2018. Although  the IBAN and BIC codes were  correct  on this occasion,  the payment
was still unsuccessful.
Payment attempt  4  emails between Miss C and the sender suggest the sender
attempted the payment  again on 21 September 2018 using the correct details, but
they received  a message  back saying  the transfer had been rejected due to internal
policy. Miss C was told shed been charged  a $5 wire fee and $29.27 in other fees
as a result  of the failed payment attempt, and this had been deducted from the
$30,000.
Miss C called TSB on 25 September 2018  to ask why the payment  was not reaching her
account. She was told that a block had incorrectly been left on her account  which  was
stopping payments in and out. She was advised that this had now been  removed  and to
make her payment again. Miss C notified the sender of this on 25 September 2018.
Miss C explained in her letter of complaint  that before attempting the payment again  the
Ref: DRN97424622sender wanted  more  concrete clarification  that it wouldnt be rejected again, so she called
TSB on 26 September 2018. At this point she was told that the payment had been rejected
due to where it was coming from and that it would keep rejecting  if she attempted it again.
Miss C raised a complaint at this point.
Miss C was unhappy TSB had given her the incorrect IBAN, blocked her account  and
refused to credit her payment. She wanted an explanation as to why her payment had been
refused, specifically what internal policy it had relied  on, and reassurance  that there would
be no issue if the payment was attempted again.  Miss C requested compensation for her
time and losses, including the charges applied to the payment, loss of interest and losses
due to the exchange rate fluctuation.
TSB didnt  issue a final response  letter  to Miss C. However, once the complaint had been
referred to this service  it explained that it hadnt  made any errors in the IBAN it had given
Miss C or refusing the payment. It received the payment on 5 September  2018, at which
point it was referred for additional checks.  Following this, it took the decision to reject the
payment and sent notification of this back to the sending bank on 17 September 2018.
However, TSB did acknowledge it had given incorrect information on 25 September  2018,
when it told Miss C that the block was stopping the payment crediting. It also acknowledged
delays in dealing  with the complaint.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Cs complaint. He didnt find TSB had made any errors
in processing the incoming payment.  And explained that he couldnt get TSB to guarantee
any future payments  in would be successful. This was because all payments are subject to
checks under UK and international  regulations.  However, he agreed  that TSB had given
Miss C incorrect  information about the account block,  which had misled her into thinking this
was causing an issue with her incoming payment.  He recommended TSB pay £150 in
compensation, which it agreed  to.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigators findings.  She maintained that TSB had been
deliberately deceiving her and still hadnt  provided an explanation for why it put a stop on her
account and rejected the payment. Neither  has TSB confirmed that her account  is okay to
accept international  payments.
Miss C asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman, so it has been passed
to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 
23 September 2020. I provide a copy of my findings  from that decision below:
Payment attempt 1
As mentioned, payment  1 doesnt form part of Miss Cs complaint other than for context.
Shes made this clear on several  occasions,  specifically  that her claim starts from the date of
the first deception which she believes is payment 2 when she was given the incorrect IBAN
and BIC codes in branch. I will therefore  not be addressing the issues around payment 1 in
my decision.
Payment attempt 2
Ref: DRN97424623Miss C has explained  she was given a print off in branch  of her IBAN and BIC codes.  The
IBAN she supplied to the sender of the funds was incorrect  two digits  had been  left out.
Miss C says TSB must have given her the incorrect details. She no longer has the print out
so we cant ever know for certain what happened. Ive therefore  looked at any other
evidence to determine what I think is more likely to have happened.
In the call Miss C had with TSB on 28 August 2018, she says she was given a print out of
her account  with her IBAN  and BIC codes on. This print out would  have been  autogenerated
on TSBs systems,  so rules out the cashier making  any manual mistakes in writing
down/typing in the codes.
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  the codes for Miss Cs account  were incorrect  on
TSBs systems at the time. Theyve  been  able to show  me they are correct now and more
importantly, when Miss C called TSB on 28 August  2018, a couple  of weeks  after her branch
visit, she was given  the correct codes by TSB.  This suggests the codes were  correct on
TSBs system  of course it doesnt completely rule out any update  in that two-week window,
but on balance,  Im persuaded they were likely correct at the point of the branch visit.
Instead, I think its more likely  that Miss C couldve accidently emailed the incorrect  IBAN  to
the sender  this is easily done  given  the length of the number and seems plausible given
only two characters were missing.
I understand Miss C may not agree  this is what happened. However, I think  its more
plausible than TSBs systems containing  the incorrect  IBAN. For this reason,  I dont think
TSB contributed to payment 2 being unsuccessful.
Payment attempts 3 and 4
Before I continue, I just want  to clarify  payment 4. In the emails  between Miss C and the
sender, the sender suggests they attempted the payment on 21 September 2018 and
received the message back quoting an internal policy decision. However, I dont believe this
was the case.  I think the payment was sent on 5 September 2018 as confirmed by TSB and
the evidence provided. It was this attempted payment that the sender received the message
back saying the payment  had been  rejected due to internal policy, which  was sent by TSB
on 17 September 2018 following its decision to reject  the payment. For this reason, I dont
believe there was a fourth payment  attempt.
Payment attempt 3 on 5 September 2018 was made  using the correct  IBAN and BIC codes
which were given to Miss C when she called TSB on 28 August  2018, so this wasnt  the
issue here.
I want to address the fact Miss Cs account was blocked on 12 August 2018. This block has
caused a great deal of confusion. To clarify, the block was only applied to Miss Cs debit
card. The block  didnt affect the ability for the account to receive payments into it. TSB has
provided sufficient evidence to show there were no account blocks  in place that wouldve
prevented incoming payments, and that remains the case to this day.
When Miss C called TSB on 25 September 2018 she was incorrectly  informed  that the block
on her account from 12 August 2018 hadnt been  fully removed and this is why the payment
into the account had failed. The block had been  removed, and in any event, it was only
applicable to the debit  card, not the whole  account. I think  this incorrect  information  has led
to a great  deal of confusion and Miss C being led to believe this was the reason  why her
Ref: DRN97424624payment wasnt being received into her account.
In fact, Miss Cs incoming payment wasnt being  impacted  by any block.  Instead, as already
explained, TSB had received payment attempt 3 on 5 September  2018. However, the
payment was referred for additional checks.
TSB has a wide range  of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers.  These  are ongoing  so dont just apply at account  opening
stage. To comply with these obligations,  it may need to review  accounts and the activity
taking place on them. If TSB didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
Following its review of the payment, TSB took the decision to reject  it and returned it to the
sending bank on 17 September 2018. Having reviewed the evidence around why TSB
rejected the payment, Im satisfied it was within its rights to do so and did so in order to
comply with its legal  and regulatory obligations.  I therefore dont believe it made  an error in
not crediting Miss Cs payment.
TSB wasnt obliged to tell Miss C why it wouldnt accept the payment and it wouldnt be
appropriate for me to require it do so, as much as Miss C would like to know. And nor would
it be appropriate for TSB to make assurances  that this wont ever happen again.  Whilst
banks have these  legal  and regulatory  obligations  to adhere to, there is always  a risk that a
payment may not be accepted.
It is for these reasons that I wont be asking TSB to pay Miss C the compensation she has
requested for her losses including interest,  exchange  rate and damages. I understand this
will come as a great disappointment  to Miss C. But Ive explained why I dont think TSB was
at fault for any of the payments not crediting  Miss Cs account, so it follows it doesnt have to
compensate her for this.
However, TSB did give Miss C incorrect  information  when she called on 25 September 2018,
regarding the block being the reason  for the payment not crediting.  Instead of this, it
shouldve told her the payment had been rejected,  just as was explained when Miss C called
on 26 September 2018. I can understand why Miss C feels like TSB has been dishonest in
its dealings with her. Rather than dishonesty though, I think the advisor most likely made a
mistake when it told Miss C the block was the issue causing her payment to be 
unsuccessful. But regardless, this mistake  led to unnecessary confusion which has lasted for
the past two years.
Miss C has said the incorrect information  led to the fees being applied to the payment as she
was told to go ahead and make it again.  However,  this isnt the case. The fees were applied
to the transaction on 5 September 2018, which was before shed been given the incorrect
information about the block and told to try the payment again. The payment wasnt 
attempted following the incorrect information on 25 September 2018.  Miss C called  back the
following day for further clarity and was at that point given the correct information about the
payment being  rejected.
Miss C did also speak  to TSB on 28 August 2018  to obtain the correct IBAN  and BIC codes
and she was told in that call that there were no issues  at TSBs end that would stop the
payment. This was correct information  at that point.  The payment had not yet reached TSB 
due to the incorrect IBAN  being used  so the advisor wouldve had no way of knowing at
that point, that the future payment made on 5 September 2018 would be referred  for
additional checks, and ultimately rejected.
Ref: DRN97424625Our investigator recommended TSB pay £150 compensation. However, I believe £300 is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances. TSB gave incorrect  and confusing  information to Miss
C at the time and then didnt take any steps to clarify this when she complained. This has
compounded the confusion  and incorrect information given and understandably  led Miss C
into thinking TSB has been  deliberately  deceiving her.
So, subject to any further representations from Miss C or TSB, I was minded to partially 
uphold the complaint and ask TSB to pay Miss C £300 for the trouble and upset caused.  
TSB responded to the provisional decision agreeing to pay the £300. 
Miss C also responded,  disagreeing  with the provisional decision. She said she would 
provide her comments as to why, saying she believed the provisional decision contained 
factual inaccuracies  and unfounded personal opinions. We have since  asked  Miss C for her 
comments, but unfortunately she hasnt responded. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As TSB agreed with my provisional findings  and Miss C hasnt provided any further  
comments or evidence that makes  me change my mind, I see no reason to change  my 
findings as set out in my provisional decision.  It follows that I partially  uphold  Miss Cs 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Miss Cs complaint and ask TSB Bank  Plc to pay 
her £300  compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9742462