K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of a housing society,  B, that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has unfairly 
declined a claim for subsidence  damage under its block of flats building  insurance policy.
background
Mr S said that subsidence has severely damaged two flats within the block  owned by B, with 
cracking to internal and external walls.  He said AXA unfairly declined  Bs claim on the basis  
that the foundations are inadequate. Mr S complained about this to AXA.
AXA said its loss adjusters appointed a structural engineer to assess  the claim, who found  
that a flooring slab is in place to bear the building  load. The engineer  said that both raft 
foundations or floorings slabs tend to include steel  reinforcement to prevent cracking, and in 
some cases  incorporate stiffening beams or thickened areas to provide additional support. 
He said these werent present within Bs building  although theres a mesh providing some 
additional support,  but it still relies on a flooring slab, whether  loadbearing or not. 
AXA said the damage to the property resulted from movement of the floor slab and the policy  
carries an exclusion  clause for this type of foundation. AXAs 2016 policy applies and covers 
claims for subsidence of any part of the site on which the block of flats stands, but not: 
Damage to solid floor slabs or Damage resulting from their movement  unless the 
foundations beneath the outside walls of the main building of the Block of Flats or Private 
Dwelling House are damaged at the same time by the same  cause .
B arranged  for a structural engineer  to review the damage. He said AXAs conclusion would 
mean that any raft supporting a building is a floor slab. He said a raft is a footing but also a 
floor supporting inner load bearing walls, so if the reinforced slab is capable of dropping,  
then the raft must also be affected. He said hed never heard of a claim repudiated on these 
grounds before and said this doesn't reflect how buildings are sometimes built. He said the 
foundation would have passed Building  Regulations  at the time of construction.
AXA said the report provided by Bs engineer refers mainly to external cracking, but its 
expert considered  that this is of a different magnitude to the main problems and due to a 
separate, unidentified cause.
Bs engineer said there was external cracking around the windows and dropping of the lower 
brickwork below the damp proof course, which indicated downward movement of the 
building foundations. He said the external  cracking isnt of the magnitude of the internal 
cracking, but if the cause is the same  then AXA should accept the claim.  
 
AXAs loss adjusters provided details about  its site investigations. They  said under the terms 
of the policy  claims for damage to solid floor slabs, or from their movement are excluded  
unless the foundation beneath the outside  walls of the building is damaged at the same time 
by the same cause. They said the claim cant succeed considering  the way Bs building  had 
been constructed.
Mr S brought Bs complaint to our service and said he would like AXA to accept the claim so 
that the repairs can begin to the building. 
Ref: DRN95512472The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He said the parties  agreed  the 
damage was caused by movement of a solid floor slab and so the question  is whether there  
is also damage to the foundations beneath the outside walls of the building and whether this 
was at the same time by the same cause. He said AXAs loss adjuster said the external  
cracks and internal cracks  dont  emanate from the same cause. But he had said he didnt  
know what the cause  was and recommended that investigations should be made.
The investigator thought that from the reports there are clear  signs the external foundations 
have been damaged by subsidence. He said it isnt reasonable for AXA to have declined  the 
claim without  being  able to show the cause of the movement  was different for the external 
and internal damage.
AXA disagreed with the investigator.  It said Bs engineer would be correct  about the damage 
if the foundation was a reinforced raft extending beneath the external loadbearing  walls as 
well as picking up internal partitions on the same  foundation. But it said its a separate 
foundation under the external loadbearing walls  with an independent reinforced floor slab. 
AXA said this isnt a 'continuous footing' and isnt a reinforced  raft foundation. It said the 
foundation to the external  walls was at about  1.2m below ground level.  AXA said that on the 
basis the foundation to the external wall and the internal  reinforced  floor slab are separate  
entities, the floor slab exclusion still applied.
Because AXA disagreed about the outcome of the complaint it has been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the parties to this complaint agree that theres been  damage from the movement  of 
a solid floor slab foundation, they disagree about the construction of the foundation  and the 
effect of this on Bs building. When the parties  disagree about the cause of damage that is 
the subject of a claim, we look closely at the expert  evidence to see if decisions have been 
made fairly. In this case  both parties  have obtained  reports from structural  engineers.
Bs engineer said the reinforced  raft slab acts as a continuous footing supporting not only the 
external walls but also internal loadbearing walls.  He said this type of footing is one that, is 
often designed  when it is appropriate  for ground conditions. It would have passed Building 
Regulations at the time of construction and therefore deemed fit for purpose.
AXAs engineer  said its a separate foundation under the external  loadbearing walls with an 
independent reinforced floor slab. And so it isnt a 'continuous footing'  and isnt a reinforced 
raft foundation. AXA said that on the basis the foundation to the external wall and the 
internal reinforced  floor slab are separate entities.
AXA thinks  that this means its exclusion clause in the policy  applies,  but I cant  be certain 
about the nature of the foundation from the conflicting evidence.  
The policy,  in common with most building insurance policies allows claims for subsidence to 
be brought. However, the policy excludes claims unless damage to floor slabs and 
foundations under the outside walls  occurs  at the same time by the same  cause.
Ref: DRN95512473Its the responsibility of an insurer seeking  to rely on an exclusion clause to prove  that it 
applies to a claim. To decide if AXA applied the exclusion clause fairly, we need to know  if 
the floor slab and outer walls foundations were damaged  by the same cause. If they werent 
then there  must be two separate causes of downward movement  at the site of the building. 
Because it appears that the internal and external cracking relate to downward movement, I 
think they are both due to subsidence. As far as I know, the damage  manifested  itself around  
the same  time and so it seems likely to me that the causes are linked. 
In order to prove that internal and external damage occurred separately would require expert 
evidence. However,  AXAs loss adjuster said the cause of the external cracks  hasnt been 
established. The loss adjuster and Bs engineer said this should  be investigated, presumably 
because they could see that the exclusion clause depended on this evidence.  I dont  think  
there has been any investigation and so some uncertainty remains.
There must have been some investigation of the foundation when the block of flats was built 
as it appears to have  passed Building  Regulations, meeting the standards within the 
Planning Permission  at the time. AXA hasnt shown what regulations or other standards it is 
relying on to determine  the foundation  was too shallow or incorrectly constructed.
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the external cracking  has occurred at the 
same time and by the same cause  as the internal damage. Although AXA disagrees  with 
this, it hasnt provided expert evidence and I dont think its fair to B to prolong its claim any 
longer by carrying out further investigations, which  may be inconclusive.  So, I think the 
fairest response to this situation is for AXA to accept  and deal with Bs claim for subsidence.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to deal with Bs claim without further consideration of the subsidence 
exclusion clause. My decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay the claim up to a 
maximum of £150,000. If the amount  of the claim is more than £150,000, I recommend that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc also pays the balance of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 1 June 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9551247