K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Mr E took out three loans  between  January 2019  and February  2019. Mr Es borrowing 
history is set out on the table below:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Combined 
Repayment
1 09/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £101.06
2 07/02/2019 Outstanding 6 £270.00 £184.30
3 28/02/2019 Outstanding 6 £120.00 £224.13
Mr E said that when Lending  Stream  gave  him the final loan the previous loans had still not 
been repaid. If Lending Stream had done better checks then it would have found he had 
more than £10,000 outstanding in other  short-term  loans  and credit  card debt and it would 
have been clear that none of the loans should have been provided. The loans were 
unaffordable, and Mr E said he had to call Lending  Stream to set up a payment plan.
In its final response Lending Stream said in summary, it conducted  rigorous affordability 
assessments for all its customers. Based on the information it had been given it concluded 
that proper and proportionate  affordability checks were conducted at the time each loan was 
approved. 
Mr E said that the information used by Lending Stream had not been  verified  - it had made 
its decision to lend based on the information Mr E had given it and it failed  to look at any of 
the actual costs via his credit file.
 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he did not think Lending  Stream  had 
irresponsibly provided the loans. He said given  the loan amounts, the number of loans, what 
was apparent about Mr Es circumstances at the time and his history, he didnt  think it would 
have been proportionate  to ask for the amount of information needed  to show  that the 
lending was unsustainable. From the information Lending Stream should  have  been  aware  
of there  wasnt anything which meant Lending Stream  should have started  to verify the 
information it had. And he said that although  there are outstanding  loans,  when these loans 
were arranged any existing loan was paid to date, so it might not have been apparent Mr E 
was having difficulty  in repaying the loans at the time. He did not uphold  this complaint.
Mr E did not agree  with our adjudicators view. He said that at the time of taking these loans 
he already had multiple loans with other lenders  and he also had four credit cards. If Lending 
Stream had done proper checks it would have been clear  the loans were not affordable. He 
asked that this matter  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN95286492Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Thinking about everything,  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr E but I will explain why Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Lending Stream has said it carried out a credit worthiness  check and checked Mr Es other 
credit obligations  at the time of loan approval via a third-party source and these met all 
reasonable affordability criteria.
Lending Stream has sent a copy of Mr Es application form at the time he applied  for his 
loans. His application  for loan 1 gave his monthly income which  he stated to be £1,300  and 
his monthly expenditure of £250.00. Lending Stream said it had verified Mr Es monthly 
income with a third party. It explained it had asked Mr E to subdivide his expenses into 
Ref: DRN95286493specific categories, and then revised  upwards the total stated expenses which still resulted 
in a viable  disposable income. It also said that a credit worthiness check  was carried  out.
His second loan application stated Mr Es income  to be £1,350.00 and his monthly  
expenditure to be £425.00. And when  Mr E applied for his third loan, he expressed his 
monthly income as £1,380.00 and his monthly expenditure as £350.00. I can also see on 
each occasion  his required loan amount was more than Lending Stream provided to him. 
Taking into account Mr Es declared  income and expenditure overall, I cant say it would 
have appeared  to Lending Stream that repayment  of the loans it had provided  were 
unsustainably affordable  for Mr E.
Ive considered with care what Mr E has told us about his other short-term lending  
commitments and taken into account his concerns.  He told us that if Lending Stream  would 
have properly checked his circumstances it would  have likely known that he had several 
other short-term loans and was having  problems managing his money.
Lending Stream has forwarded a copy of the credit check report it carried out at the time it 
provided Mr E with his loans. It would likely have known  from this report  that Mr E had some 
active accounts at the time it gave Mr E his loans. But I cant  say theres anything  in these 
results which  I think would likely have alerted it that Mr E was having  problems  managing his 
money. So, for example, Lending  Stream was aware that there  were  no defaults and no 
accounts in arrears so I dont think the credit check results would have  led Lending Stream 
to either  declining Mr Es application or prompting  it to carry out more in depth  checks based 
on the credit  checks alone.
As I explained above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldnt necessarily expect  Lending 
Stream to undertake a full review of Mr Es financial circumstances.  In this case, when 
thinking about what it knew about Mr E at the time as well as the monthly  commitments  he 
had, I think the checks  it did were proportionate  and more likely showed that Mr E could 
afford the repayments  he was committed to. And as our adjudicator  explained it was also 
likely that when Mr E took out his next loan he was still up to date with his repayments  even 
if later and in hindsight it turned out that he now has an outstanding balance on each loan.
As there may still be outstanding balances left on these loans, I remind Lending Stream to 
treat Mr E fairly if he is in financial difficulties.
So, Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but I think the checks carried out by Lending Stream  were 
proportionate and I cant say it did anything wrong  in deciding to lend to Mr E - so I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Lending Stream doesnt  need  to do anything further in relation to it.
Ref: DRN95286494my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9528649