K820x#14complaint
Ms G says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms G bought  the policy when she took out a loan in 2001. At the same  time she was sold a 
single premium PPI policy. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI was optional and Ms G had to agree to take it. Ms G 
told us that she didnt ask for the insurance  and she was not made aware  it was optional. But 
she has also told us that it was added without her knowledge. HSBC doesnt  have  any 
specific paperwork from her sale which isnt surprising considering this was over 18 years  
ago. So where  there  is a dispute about  what happened, Ill base my decision  on what I think 
is most  likely.
HSBC has referred me to some sample documents which it says were used at the time of 
the sale. This includes a declaration which had to be signed, which was separate to the 
credit agreement. This declaration confirmed  the decision  to take out the loan protection, 
the name used  by HSBC for PPI. On balance, I think this is likely to be the same or similar  
form that Ms G wouldve seen and signed.  So I think its more likely than not Ms G chose  to 
take out the PPI, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it, even  if she doesnt 
remember that now.
Ms G has told us that the policy  was sold during a meeting and she received advice about 
the PPI. HSBC no longer has a record. I cant say for certain how the policy was sold but, 
because it puts a greater responsibility  on HSBC, and because  it makes no difference  to the 
outcome of the complaint,  Ill assess this case as if HSBC recommended the policy. And that 
means HSBC had to take reasonable steps to recommend a policy  that was suitable  for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was right for her. I 
say this because  Ms G was eligible for the policy and didnt seem to be affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, such as unusual employment status or a medical  
condition of which she was already  aware when taking the policy.
Ms G has told us that she was working  part time when she took out this loan and therefore  
she wouldnt  have been covered by the policy. In order to be eligible for cover  under the PPI 
Ms G had to be working a minimum of 16 hours per week. From what  we have been told, 
Ref: DRN92968522she was working over 16 hours per week and was therefore eligible for the cover  - so this 
wouldnt have affected her ability to claim.
Ive noted that Ms G has told us she would have received at least three months sick pay 
from her employer if she had been too ill to work. And she has said that her husband could 
have helped her meet her repayments. But this policy couldve potentially  covered her 
monthly repayments until the end of the loan term if she was ill, or up to 12 months  if she 
became unemployed. So I think this couldve given her reassurance that her repayments 
would be protected  if anything  went wrong.  And while I appreciate  that her husband would 
have wanted to help, support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can 
also change, meaning they cant provide such financial assistance.  So I think  this policy  
couldve provided a useful benefit to her.
From what  we know Ms G wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if she 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if HSBC thought  about  this when it recommended  the 
policy, or if it explained the situation  clearly to Ms G. But I havent seen anything to suggest  
she thought shed repay the loan early.  So I dont think  this meant the policy wasnt  right for 
her  or that better information about this wouldve  stopped her buying it.
Ive seen a sample  credit  agreement, provided  by HSBC from around the same  time, and 
can see that this shows  the cost of the policy  including the amount of the premium, the 
interest payable on the premium and the total cost. I think this is likely to be the same form 
that Ms G wouldve seen and so I think she would have  understood  how much the PPI would 
cost if she kept the policy for its full term. And I think she agreed to take the PPI knowing the 
cost. But its possible the other information  HSBC gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9296852