K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 2000 when she applied  for a 
loan to buy a car.
background
Mrs E complained to this Service.  She says she did not know PPI had been  added to her car 
loan with Company  S. She believes  FICL sold her the policy.
FICL accepted it was the insurance company which  provided the cover under the PPI policy 
but it did not have any documents to show it was responsible for the sale or that it was 
responsible through the actions of the car dealership which  Ill call Company L.
Our adjudicator said there wasnt enough  evidence  to show  FICL was responsible for the 
PPI sale. Mrs E disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be looked 
at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018  where I explained why I did not think 
FICL was responsible  for looking  at this PPI mis-sale complaint. I sent a copy of my 
provisional decision to Mrs E and to FICL.  Neither  party had any further  comments or 
evidence to add so I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether FICL  is responsible for the sale of the policy. If I 
decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it should have done. If I dont 
think FICL was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mrs E, then Im clearly not able to 
consider a complaint about the PPI mis-sale against  it. 
In this case, Im going to say FICL is not responsible  for the sale of the PPI so I cannot 
uphold a PPI mis-sale  complaint against  it.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by FICL and Mrs E about the sale.  Mrs E was not 
aware she had bought  PPI so she couldnt  tell us any details  about  what happened at the 
time of the sale. She does say she signed  the loan application wherever she was told to sign 
it  she concludes the policy was sold by FICL. 
Due to the age of the sale, FICL  did not have any documents to show  it sold the PPI, so I 
dont think I can safely conclude FICL is responsible for the PPI sale.
I have seen the loan agreement which shows the loan was taken out with Company S and 
signed by a broker company Ill call Company L. The loan agreement says Company  L 
signed on behalf of Company S. So  as our adjudicator explained in his view  we can only 
say FICL is responsible  for the PPI sale if there was an agency agreement between  
Ref: DRN90853672Company L and FICL which was in existence at the time of the sale and saying it should 
take responsibility for Mrs Es PPI sale. Unfortunately for Mrs E, FICL  has only been able to 
establish it provided the insurance cover for her. It cannot provide any evidence  of an 
agency agreement  to make it responsible for the sale through the actions  of Company L. 
So I do not think FICL is responsible for dealing  with this PPI sale. It follows that I also think 
it wasnt responsible  for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So Im not going to uphold this 
PPI mis-sale complaint against FICL.
Our adjudicator has investigated all other  possible avenues for Mrs E and  although  Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs E - I do not think this Service can do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that the Financial  Insurance Company Limited is not responsible  for this 
PPI sale.
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against the Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9085367