K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms H bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Hs complaint because:
 Ms H says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the store card,  and that it wasnt  
made clear that the cover was optional. I cant be sure what  was discussed between  
Ms H and the sales person when the policy was sold.  But the store card application 
form Ms H signed included a separate section  about PPI that was completed to show  
that she wanted the cover. And there was another type of cover available on the form 
that Ms H couldve taken, but it seems she chose not to. In addition,  there  is nothing  on 
the form to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the store  card. From  
what Ive seen,  I havent been  able to safely conclude that FICL didnt make  Ms H 
aware that policy was optional.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any employer benefits Ms H might have 
been entitled to.
 Its possible the information FICL gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Ms H would have  been  affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  her buying  it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
Ref: DRN93443162ombudsman
Ref: DRN9344316