K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complained that BISL Limited incorrectly told him he needed  to tell other insurers  hes 
had a motor insurance  policy cancelled and this led to him paying more  than he should have 
done for a new policy. 
background
Mr L bought insurance  through  BISL, which is a broker.  Shortly afterwards BISL cancelled
the policy because  it said he hadnt declared the correct amount of claims hed had in the
last five years. It said if he had done,  the insurer wouldnt  have offered him the policy.
After the policy  was cancelled, BISLs representative told Mr L hed need  to declare the
cancellation to other  insurers.
Mr L complained about this, as he didnt think BISL should  have  cancelled  his policy. BISL
said it was right to have cancelled his policy, but also said it had given him incorrect
information about having to declare  the cancellation to other insurers. It offered him £50
compensation and said it would reimburse him if hed paid more for his new policy. Mr Ls
new insurer said it hadnt based his premium on him having a cancelled  policy.  So, BISL
didnt think it needed to pay Mr L anything further to compensate him.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. He said hed had to contact specialist  insurers  to find one
who would  cover him, due to having  a cancelled policy. He said hed had to pay much  more 
for his new policy  as a result of BISLs mistake  and so BISL should pay the compensation it 
had offered. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 January 2020 where I explained  why I 
didnt think BISL  didnt need  to do anything differently. In that decision I said:
Mr Ls made a number of detailed  points. I appreciate hed like me to comment on every
point hes made and set out every detail hes provided. But were an informal dispute
resolution service. And while Id like to reassure him Ive considered all the information hes
provided, Im going to focus on what I consider to be the central issues of his complaint.
Mr L has also brought a complaint to us about the broker who arranged his new policy.
Thats being  dealt with separately  and Im not going to make  any findings on that in this
decision. In this decision I can only comment on what  BISL  did or didnt do wrong.
I dont think its for BISL to advise on what other  insurers would need to know. Under the
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure & Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA) Mr L has a duty to
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when buying a policy. And, what  hell
need to declare depends on the question that insurance provider asks him when  he applies
to them.  So, while BISL should have told Mr L it hadnt recorded the cancellation  anywhere,  I
dont think it should  have told him he didnt  need to tell any insurer about it, as this would
depend on the question he was asked.
BISLs provided a screenshot to show that when applying for his policy Mr L was asked any
motor incidents  or claims in the last 5 years?. When clicking the question mark next to this it
says this is regardless of fault or whether or not he claimed.
BISL says Mr L only declared one claim from November  2017. But when it checked  his
details against  the Claims and Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) - which is a shared database
Ref: DRN94301722used by insurers to record claims and other information - it showed  hed had four claims or
incidents. Mr L had also declared another claim which wasnt recorded  on CUE.
Mr Ls provided information about the claims recorded on CUE and explained why he didnt
declare them. He said the first incident  wasnt a claim hed made. He said another  car
bumped into him after which the passengers  got out and shouted  abuse  at him. He said hed
told his insurer about this, as he thought the other driver might make  a false claim. He said
hed forgotten  about this until being reminded  by his previous insurer.
Mr L said the second claim was when his wife was driving and had scrapped  another
vehicle. He said hed also forgotten  this incident  due to the time that had passed. He said he
recalled the third incident, as his car had been  hit by another vehicle while parked and
empty. The fourth incident he said hed reported  to his insurer and repairs were arranged  but
ultimately not carried out as the car wasnt worth repairing. He said hed declared this claim
but provided the incorrect date  which made BISL  think there was a fifth claim.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ls CUE record and this shows there were four claims. So, I think its
likely Mr L made a mistake when telling BISL the date of the fourth  claim.
I can understand why Mr L didnt  think he needed  to tell BISL about the claim where his wife
was driving, as she wasnt going to be insured on this policy  and he didnt  think  it was his
claim. But even  if I accepted it was reasonable for him to have not told BISL about that
claim, I do think he should have told it about  the others. Thats because he was asked to tell
BISL about any incidents as well as claims.  And he did know  hed been involved in those
incidents.
Mr Ls CUE record shows his insurers paid out on three claims, either to Mr L or the other
drivers involved  in the accidents. If Mr L doesnt think thats correct hed need  to contact
those insurers separately.  BISL  accepted Mr L made a genuine error in not telling it about
the claims,  but has shown the insurer wouldnt have covered  him if it had known about  the
incidents. As the insurer wouldnt have  provided cover for Mr L I dont think BISL  had any
other choice  but to cancel his policy.
BISLs confirmed  that Mr L doesnt  have any negative markers  against his record  and said
he doesnt need to declare the cancellation to other insurers.  However,  as Ive said, I dont
think its for BISL to tell Mr L what insurers would want  to know  about,  as that would depend
on the question  he was asked.
In view of this, I dont think BISL  actually  needs  to compensate  Mr L for any financial loss he
may have  suffered as a result of declaring hed had a policy  cancelled.  I appreciate  it gave
Mr L conflicting information, but Im satisfied the £50 its paid as compensation for any
distress and inconvenience Mr L experienced as a result  of this is appropriate.
Mr L made a number of detailed points in response to my provisional  decision. Im not going  
to set out every point  hes made  but will focus on what I consider to be the main issues.  In 
summary he:
Felt that Id repackaged  the nature of his complaint as ultimately the only outstanding 
question was why BISL hadnt paid the agreed compensation which hed provided  
the evidence for. 
Queried which  evidence Id seen and relied on when coming to my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN94301723Said BISL hadnt cancelled his policy and had instead withdrawn its services.
Hadnt asked BISL to reinstate his policy.
Felt I had inferred that he had deliberately or carelessly misrepresented information 
when buying the policy.
Said I hadnt taken  account of any fraud markers that might have been placed 
against his record.
Asked for clarification  on when BISL said he didnt have any negative  markers 
against his record  and didnt need to declare the cancellation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls provided a detailed response to my provisional findings. I can assure him Ive read all 
the information he and BISL have provided.  As with my provisional findings Im not going to 
address every point  Mr Ls made and will instead concentrate on what  I consider to be the 
central issues of this complaint. I also dont intend  to reference every  phone call or document 
and have summarised the information  I find most relevant. Mr L has queried the information 
Ive relied on and asked whether Ive requested and seen information he feels is relevant.  
Im satisfied that Im able to reach a fair and reasonable  decision on this complaint based on 
the information Ive seen,  and I dont require anything further. 
Both Mr L and BISL have  referred to the policy as being cancelled  throughout the complaint, 
so Im satisfied its reasonable for me to do so.
In a letter of complaint to BISL dated April 2018  Mr L said he wanted to challenge its 
decision and had been happy  to pay an additional  premium if required. In his letter  to us 
dated May 2018 Mr L said the decision to continue with the cancellation of my policy  was 
unfair and unjust. Mr L said the reason for the cancellation due to the number of alleged 
claims was incorrect  and wrong  and after setting out the list of claims he said I feel the 
decision taken... . is unjust and wrong . The complaint form Mr L signed included  a request 
to review the decision to cancel my policy.  
This is partly why I looked  into whether it was fair and reasonable for BISL to cancel the 
policy, rather than only considering why it hadnt  paid further  compensation. I also think 
whether Mr L provided the correct information  when buying his policy might also impact on 
whether he needed to tell other  insurers about  this in the future. As I said in my provisional 
findings, what Mr L needed to tell future insurers would depend on the question  he was 
asked. 
I appreciate BISL  said it would pay Mr L the difference  in premium hed been charged  as a 
result of having declared a cancelled policy. But as I said in my provisional decision,  I dont 
think it needs to pay him any further compensation because I dont think its for BISL to tell 
Mr L what hed need to tell other insurers. I appreciate Mr L might  have  provided  information 
that he feels means BISL should pay more compensation. But I think  BISLs response that it 
doesnt need to pay anything further  is fair and reasonable  Im satisfied its already 
compensated him fairly  for the conflicting  advice it gave. 
Ref: DRN94301724Mr L is unhappy that I implied hed made  either a deliberate or careless  misrepresentation 
when buying his policy. However, its not for me to comment  on whether he made a 
misrepresentation under CIDRA  as this is a complaint  against  the broker  cancelling  his 
policy, rather than the insurer. 
BISLs final response letter dated  24 May 2018  says as there are no adverse markers  
recorded against you, the cancellation of your policy does not need to be declared to any 
future insurers. I understand Mr L remains of the opinion that he does have fraud markers 
against his name, but Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that there are. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for, but Im not going to ask BISL  to pay 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9430172