K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies  taken 
out in 2005 and 2010. Mr R and Ms H say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr R and Ms Hs complaint  explaining that I didnt think  the 
PPI policies were mis-sold  by BoS. I thought that because:
I thought BoS made it clear that Mr R and Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out, but I said I understood if they couldnt  remember  this. But I 
noted that the first PPI policy was taken  out around  a year after they took out the 
mortgage in 2004,  so I thought  they would have known they didnt need to take the 
PPI to get the mortgage. I thought it was more likely they chose to take the PPI out 
afterwards to protect their repayments.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr R and Ms H so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Id seen about their circumstances at the time,  I 
thought it was. The 2005 policy only covered Ms H and she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seemed  to have had a need for 
the cover.  And the 2010 policy covered both Mr R and Ms H, but again neither of 
them were affected by any exclusions or limitations on the cover  and seemed  to have 
had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr R and Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But I thought they chose to take it out - so it looked like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seemed like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looked like it was affordable. So I didnt think  better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
I considered what Mr R and Ms H said about their circumstances,  including that they 
both had six months of full sick pay followed  by six months of half pay in both 2005  
and 2010. But these points didnt change my decision  as the policy  could have paid 
out for up to twelve months in any one claim and on top of any sick pay, so I thought  
it meant their sick pay could have been  used for other living expenses and the PPI 
could have been useful when their sick pay reduced after six months.
I also thought  about the commission Mr R and Ms H paid on their PPI  and whether 
BoS treated  them unfairly. BoS offered to give Mr R and Ms H back  some of the cost 
of the PPI sold in 2005 and I didnt think BoS needed to refund anything more.  And 
BoS told us that the commission for Mr R and Ms Hs PPI sold in 2010  was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. We looked  at how BoS worked this out and 
based on what wed seen  it looked right  Mr R and Ms Hs commission was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As that was the case,  I didnt think it needed to tell them  
about the commission  so I didnt think BoS treated  them unfairly. This meant it 
didnt need to pay Mr R and Ms H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI 
taken out in 2010. 
Neither Mr R and Ms H nor BoS responded to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN95272712my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R and Ms Hs case.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to think  about,  I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr R and Mrs H once Ive issued my final decision if it 
hasnt done so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr R and Ms Hs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9527271