K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice she says she was given to contract  back  into the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS) by HW Financial Services  Limited (trading as 
Tilney, but referred  to as HW Financial). She says that if shed been made aware  of all the 
necessary information  at the time she would have realised that shed  be better off remaining 
contracted out of SERPS.
background
Mrs B was given the opportunity to join her employers  group personal pension (GPP) 
scheme in 2001.  HW Financial were  appointed  by the employer to administer the pension  
scheme. As a result Mrs B also contracted out of SERPS at the same  time. 
In 2007 HW Financial wrote to her explaining that it is now unlikely that any pensions  
accruing from the rebates into a personal pension plan will match or exceed the benefits 
potentially derived from contracting back into the state scheme unless the funds sustain 
good investment  growth, which cannot be guaranteed.  
It confirmed that the changes  made  to state  pensions meant it was more likely  to be 
beneficial to contract back into S2P as it would now be known instead of SERPS.  Although 
HW Financial said the decision wasnt straightforward and invited Mrs B to contact it if 
appropriate.
Two years later Mrs B received  a letter from her pension provider who also noted  that it was 
less advantageous to remain contracted out and said she should consider re-joining S2P. It 
enclosed a form which enabled her to re-join and also suggested that she should speak to a 
financial adviser. Mrs B decided to contract back into S2P at that point.
In February 2019  Mrs B complained to HW Financial about what she said was unsuitable 
advice from 2007.  She said shed referred back to its letter  of 2007 when the provider wrote 
to her in 2009,  and based her decision to contract back into S2P on the information 
contained within the letter. But she said she wasnt made aware of the difference  between  
qualifying for a state pension and being  contracted  out and also wasnt informed that further 
state pension  provision could be purchased to top up lost qualifying years. 
She said this information would  have  persuaded her to remain  contracted out of S2P as  
looking at how her pension fund had grown since 2008, she could have used the extra  fund 
to top up her S2P. She wanted to be compensated for any losses shed suffered.
HW Financial didnt uphold the complaint as it said it didnt think  its letter  of 2007 constituted 
advice to contract back into S2P.  It said that it provided information on the merits of 
contracting back in or remaining contracted out but didnt advise on either outcome.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with that outcome  so she brought her complaint  to us. She said shed 
seen the letter from HW Financial in 2007  as being weighted towards advice to contract back 
into S2P. She believed  the letter constituted  unsuitable advice and that shed  subsequently  
suffered financial losses  as a result.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. She made  
the following  points:
Ref: DRN96081692When HW Financial sent the letter in 2007  the incentives to contract out had been  
significantly reduced. So most businesses were writing to clients to make them  aware 
of these changes  and to encourage a review of the decision of whether or not to 
remain contracted out. 
She didnt think the letter HW Financial issued constituted  advice. She noted HW 
Financial didnt  gather any information  about Mrs B or issue a suitability report  setting 
out a personal  recommendation,  so she didnt think it had given advice.
HW Financial hadnt issued any documentation  about its services or any products it 
was recommending. And it hadnt charged a fee, or even  set out what  its fees were. 
This all pointed towards it not giving formal advice.  
There were  a number of balancing statements in the letter which  suggested 
advantages and disadvantages  to both courses  of action.
Although Mrs B had explained why she didnt act on HW Financials letter of 2007, 
the investigator thought that Mrs B should  have contacted HW Financial  prior to 
contracting back in in 2009 as it was possible  the earlier information was out of date.
It wasnt possible to know if Mrs B had suffered any financial loss until shed started  
to receive her state pension. And as shed said she was a cautious  investor  at the 
time it was possible the guaranteed nature  of contracting back in was a good option  
for her.
Mrs B didnt agree. In response she said:
She considered  HW Financial as being  the appointed IFA for her employer. She had 
a one-on-one discussion about joining the scheme  in the first place and her annual  
pension statements were sent to HW Financial so that it could discuss all aspects of 
the plan with her. She thought this amounted  to it having the role of a financial 
adviser.
She hadnt paid any fees to HW Financial for any previous advice or information it 
had provided so she didnt think it was relevant that HW Financial didnt charge a fee 
in this instance.
She provided a letter from 2001 which demonstrated that HW Financial did advise 
her to contract out of SERPS at that time.
Whereas Zurichs  letter from 2009  advised her to speak to a financial adviser before 
proceeding, HW Financials letter didnt make that recommendation but said 
hopefully this will assist you in taking the most appropriate action for your 
circumstances.
She did check whether anything  had changed from the letter  of 2007 before she 
made the decision to contract out in 2009. So she thought the advice from 2007  was 
still relevant. But her view was that HW Financials failure to explain all the relevant 
points around the state pension was more relevant to her making  the decision she 
did. 
If shed been  made  aware in 2007 of the option  to buy back  up to 10 years  of state 
pension provision then she would have remained contracted  out. 
The investigator reiterated her view that HW Financial hadnt given advice in 2007 and she 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.  Mrs B remained unhappy  with that view and asked 
for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed  to me for a review. In 
doing so Mrs B made the following points:
Ref: DRN96081693She wanted us to confirm the financial arrangement  between  HW Financial and her 
employer as she believed there  was an indirect  payment made  which meant 
employees could  receive financial advice from HW Financial without paying direct  
fees.
She thought  that HW Financials letter from 2001  did show that it had advised her to 
contract out of SERPS. 
Shed  explained the reason that she hadnt taken action soon after the 2007 letter 
and she didnt believe that issue was relevant to her complaint.
She believed  she had suffered a financial loss which was crystallised when she 
retired at age 55. Shed provided calculations  to show how much the loss was and 
said it applied now because she was able to access her personal pension  fund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know  this outcome will disappoint Mrs B, 
and. Ive seen  how strongly she feels about  this situation. She has made a number  of 
detailed points, which I have read and considered and I hope the fact that I do not respond 
in similar  detail here - instead concentrating on the crux of the issue  - will not be taken as a 
discourtesy. 
When HW Financial first met Mrs B in 2001  it met with her to complete the necessary 
paperwork to join the above named scheme (her employers GPP). But it did offer to give 
her advice on the investment choices she needed  to make and said that taking into account 
your age and the salary  that you are earning it is advisable for you to contract out of SERPS. 
Currently there is a pivotal age which is deemed for you to contract back in again and this is 
thought to be around the age of 50 for women.
So, Im satisfied that HW Financial did advise Mrs B to contract out of SERPS but positioned 
that there  might be time in the future  when she ought to consider contracting  back  in. And by 
2007, Mrs B was indeed  50 years  old. In addition, the landscape had changed with regards  
to SERPS to the extent that most of the original rebate incentives and payments had been 
significantly reduced or discontinued  and expected investments returns  had also changed.  
It therefore became  important to regularly consider whether or not to remain  contracted  out 
of SERPS. So I think  it was entirely reasonable for HW Financial to contact Mrs B to make  
her aware of the position. 
But the central point of this complaint rests  on whether  the letter HW Financial sent Mrs B in 
2007 constituted giving  her advice.  So Ive considered the contents  of the letter  carefully.
HW Financial said the letter was sent as part of a group mailing for members of the GPP  that 
were already  contracted  out. And I think the letter was generic  in its content and didnt refer 
to Mrs Bs individual circumstances. 
The letter explained the changes to SERPS and the loss of the enhancements  that were  
made available to people whod previously  contracted out. It did conclude  that it would be 
logical to contract back into S2P but I think that statement was based on the changes  which  
suggested remaining  contracting  out might not be in members best interests. This was also 
the view that was generally promoted  by providers to customers beyond the pivotal age at 
that time following the move to S2P. 
Ref: DRN96081694But in any case HW Financial balanced the statement by explaining that the issue of 
contracting back in is not that clear  cut and the alternative needs  some explanation before a 
reasoned decision  can be made. The rest of the letter gave,  in my view, a balanced 
explanation of the benefits and disadvantages  of remaining contracted  out and concluded 
with as previously stated  the decision is not straightforward, although hopefully this note will 
assist you in taking  the most appropriate action  for your circumstances. Should you require 
any further assistance in regard to this issue please  do not hesitate to contact myself.
The approach regarding the merits of remaining contracted out had been signposted many 
years before when  Mrs B did contract  out. I think it was reasonable for HW Financial to do 
what it said it would do and contact  the GPP members when circumstances  changed and it 
was thought the decision to remain contracted ought  to be reviewed. 
But I dont think theres any evidence, within the letter,  that HW Financial gave  a firm 
recommendation of what Mrs B ought to do and I cant see that it gave any advice here.  In 
fact, my reading of that letter is that Mrs B should ensure that any course of action she took 
was appropriate  for her, and it offered its services  if she needed  them to do so. HW Financial 
made a number of references to Mrs B seeking advice or contacting it to discuss the matter.  
I think it was reasonable  for HW Financial to expect Mrs B to contact it if she wanted  advice  
and I dont think the letter was intended  to be taken as a personal recommendation.
But in any case,  even if I were decide  that the letter could  be seen as being  weighted 
towards contracting back in to S2P, there  are other  reasons for considering that HW 
Financial wasnt responsible for the position Mrs B now finds  herself in.
If Mrs B did consider that letter to be advice, she didnt heed it. Mrs B didnt act upon the 
2007 letter  and remained contracted out. In fact she only took action two years later 
following a similar letter from the pension provider. I understand that Mrs B has said that the 
reasons for the delay are private and personal. I acknowledge that - but although there may 
have been very good reason for the delay, a period of two years had nevertheless  passed  by 
the time Mrs B decided  to contract back in. Mrs B said she referred back  to HW Financials 
letter of 2007  at that point  and, following some additional research to confirm  the situation 
was unchanged, decided  to complete  the paperwork to contract out. 
But if Mrs B thought the 2007 was a recommendation letter,  I wouldnt expect Mrs B to have 
acted on advice that was two years  out of date. HW Financial  was the professional  adviser 
here and I dont think its reasonable for Mrs B to have acted on advice  which had been 
given, but not accepted or acted upon,  two years earlier.  I would  have expected her to have 
at least contacted HW Financial to ensure what it had said in 2007 was still relevant. And 
had Mrs B taken that action, I think its more likely than not the situation regarding whether or 
not a recommendation had been made  previously would have been established.
Mrs B says that if HW Financial had included  more information in its letter  of 2007  such  as 
being able to top up the state pension  she could have made a more  informed decision 
about whether  to contract back into S2P or not. But I dont  agree.  
As Ive already  said I think the letter was generic in nature  designed to give a brief 
summary of some  of the points for and against remaining contracted out. My view is that it 
was sent to encourage customers who might be affected by the changes to seek advice on 
what they should do. 
To have  listed every  single consideration of whether or not to remain  contracted out would 
have been impractical  in a letter which was designed to prompt  a review of an individuals  
Ref: DRN96081695situation. Further detail  as to the potential specific benefits for individual  members of 
contracting back in could  have been  provided  through a suitability report or a key facts 
document  following a recommendation or during a discussion about the various options. 
Summary
I have some sympathy with Mrs Bs position  here as she believes shes  worse off financially 
having decided  to contract  back  into S2P.  But I dont think  the fault lies with HW Financial. I 
dont think it provided  Mrs B with advice  in 2007  rather I think it simply fulfilled a long 
standing agreement to let her, and other GPP members, know when it might be considered  
appropriate to look at contracting back in to the additional state pension scheme. By 2007  
many of the benefits  that had been  associated with contracting out no longer existed, so I 
think it was reasonable   and helpful  - for HW Financial, along with many other advisers  and 
providers at that time, to make its customers aware.
And I dont  think Mrs B should have relied on that letter, even  if she viewed it as advice, as 
still being correct  some two years  later  at least not without contacting HW Financial to ask 
it to confirm or update its position.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome and its not what  she would have hoped  
for, but I dont think HW Financial has done  anything wrong in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given, I dont  uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9608169