K821x#15complaint
Mr W says the actions  of Quilter Financial Services Ltd were unprofessional  and that this led 
to him paying for services  he didnt receive,  potentially exposed him to wider financial 
detriment and undermined his confidence  in the advice it had given him.
background
Mr W sought advice about his pension arrangements from Breaks Wealth Management 
Limited (BWM) in 2017.
I can see the connection between various  businesses involved in Mr Ws complaint has 
caused confusion. So, Ill start by setting out how the different entities relate to each other.
BWM is an appointed representative (AR) of Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter). That 
means Quilter as the principal firm is responsible  for the acts and omissions of its agent  
(BWM). I can also see that on occasion  Quilter wrote to Mr W using a former trading name  
Intrinsic. So, to keep  things simple, Ill now just refer to Quilter  in my decision.
Mr W was 57 when he received advice. During his working life hed accumulated  nine 
personal pension  plans. Quilter completed a fact-find of his circumstances and a risk 
appetite assessment. Mr Ws objectives were to:
-Consolidate his pensions for ease  of administration.
-Release funds from his pensions  in order to repay his mortgage and fund home 
refurbishments.
-Ensure his funds  were invested in line with his attitude to risk.
-Provide access to ongoing financial advice with regular reviews of his pension 
leading up to and during  retirement.
-Ensure he could  continue to access his retirement funds flexibly.
After meeting with Mr W, Quilter produced a suitability report and illustrations for him in 
November 2017.  It recommended that he:
-Switch his nine personal pension plans with Aviva, Standard Life, Sun Life of 
Financial Canada  and Scottish Widows into a personal pension  with Old Mutual 
Wealth.
-Release £30,000 Tax Free Cash (TFC) from his pension fund.
-Invest in a Collective Retirement Account (CRA)  with Old Mutual through  the Cirilium 
Moderate fund,  which was in line with his attitude to risk. 
-Continue to engage with Quilter on an ongoing basis  so it could provide financial 
advice in relation  to his pension.
Mr W accepted Quilters  recommendations. Initially matters proceeded well. He said:
The transactions  were  completed in December  2017 and, I received a tax-free lump which 
was arranged by the adviser  and his team at my request. I was extremely  pleased at how 
this was handled.
Ref: DRN93840902Mr W had a long association with Quilters adviser. I understand theyd lived next door to 
each other  for around 20 years and were on friendly  terms.  However, relations deteriorated 
during the early part of 2018  because of a dispute  between the neighbours. Quilters adviser 
decided to stop acting for Mr W in May 2018.
Mr W says that when  he was preparing for his annual  review in January 2019  he noticed he 
hadnt been charged an advisor servicing  fee between July and October 2018. He says 
when he investigated  he found out that the adviser had removed himself from the account.
Mr W had a number of concerns about what had happened. In summary,  he felt the adviser 
had been unprofessional  by not informing him about  his intentions  and leaving him unaware 
he had to make alternative  arrangements. He paid for services  he didnt receive. He was 
concerned that his funds had been  left without active oversight.  And it led him to question  
the original advice to switch his personal pensions.
Quilter responded  to Mr W saying that its original advice had been suitable  given his 
circumstances and objectives. It noted  that he had a fund management  arrangement in 
place and so his interests were actively managed. It did however acknowledge that its 
adviser hadnt handled his disengagement properly.
Quilter said that the fees Mr W had paid in advance for an annual service shouldve  been 
refunded to him at the point of cancellation.  And in recognition of the trouble and upset hed 
been caused it offered him a further £100.
The investigator thought that Quilters proposed resolution was fair, so he didnt uphold the 
case. Mr W disagreed and so his complaint  was passed to me for review. I issued my 
provisional decision last month. Since both parties  were broadly content with my findings  
and recommendations,  I see no reason to depart from my initial conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Where theres  conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and argument about the events complained  about.  
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Quilter  for Mr W. The FCA Handbook  contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
Ref: DRN93840903-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Quilter. As such,  I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R requires  firms, among other things, to take account of a customers  
preferences regarding risk taking, their risk profile  and to ensure they are able financially to 
bear any related  investment risks consistent  with their investment objectives.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
did Quilter meet its regulatory  obligations?
The short answer  is no. And Quilter has already acknowledged  that things didnt work the 
way they shouldve between its AR and Mr W. So, what I need  to think  about  is whether its 
review of what happened was sufficient and reached reasonable conclusions. And then also 
to consider whether its redress proposal  was fair.
At the heart  of this complaint is Mr Ws concern  about the way he was treated by Quilters  
adviser. He told us that he wasnt aware  that services  had been  withdrawn until January 
2019. This is at odds  with the advisers  testimony, which is that Mr W was told in May 2018.
This is a matter of one partys word against another. Its not my role to arbitrate in disputes 
between neighbours. But in its final response letter to Mr W, Quilter  confirmed  (bolding  is my 
emphasis):
Ref: DRN93840904[Our AR] was required to confirm his disengagement to you in writing  and arrange for 
another [Quilter] adviser to take over the servicing  he was no longer prepared to provide.
So, Quilter  acknowledged  it had got things  wrong  and it made an offer to put things right:
we intend to refund  the £544.68  ongoing paid in advance between 3 January 2018 and 
30 May 2018, rounded up to £545.00. 
In addition, as this matter  has caused  you a degree of trouble and upset we also intend to 
offer you a further  payment  of £100.00  in recognition  of this.
Total Redress £545.00+ £100.00 = £645.00
This offer is made without prejudice or admission of liability and is in full and final 
settlement of your complaint against [Quilter] and any related companies, agents and/or  
representatives.
Ill return later to the offer Quilter made to Mr W for the distress and inconvenience  it had 
caused him. In principle,  its commitment to repay him the fees hed already laid out was 
appropriate. But as I understand  it, he still hasnt received his refund. And I think  the reason  
for that is that he believed it to be conditional on accepting Quilters offer.
Quilter identified that Mr W had ended up paying for a service  he didnt receive and that 
there shouldve  been  a refund at the point of cancellation. It seems to me a straight-forward 
matter to have repaid  him the money  he was owed immediately. Instead hes waited nearly  
two years because of the way Quilter chose to couch its offer. As a result, I require Quilter to 
pay Mr W interest on the sum owed in recognition  of this delay.
As well as the handling of his adviser,  Mr W was also worried  that his pension  fund had been 
without oversight between June 2018  and January 2019, when he raised his complaint. Id 
make two observations  here.
Firstly, the arrangement Mr W had for his CRA  included the provision of fund management 
through Old Mutual, for which  he was being  charged  (as set out in the illustration he received 
as part of the advice process). So, the fees he was paying covered the creation  and 
management of the funds  he was invested in; researching, selecting and buying; and various 
associated administrative duties. These activities continued despite  Quilters AR deciding  to 
no longer represent  him.
Secondly, the regular review service from Quilters  AR that Mr W had agreed to is set out in 
the suitability report he received in November 2018.  The relevant extract  is as follows 
(bolding is my emphasis):
The nature of a Flexi-access  Drawdown arrangement is such  that reviews  should be carried  
out each year. Old Mutual Wealth will write to you annually  with a policy valuation and 
statement for review. You should  contact me on receipt to arrange our review  which,  
typically, comprises the following services:
- An assessment  and review of investment performance and markets relative to your 
specific pension  investment  as well as a wider  economic overview.
- A review and appraisal of prevailing  interest rates and annuity rate movements as 
may be applicable  to your circumstances at that time.
- Where you may in the future take withdrawals  from the plan, an assessment of how 
sustainable this is, and a forecast of when the remaining funds could be depleted. 
Ref: DRN93840905- A summary of the impact of any legislative or statutory changes that might impact  on 
your retirement strategy, for example, changes in taxation law or State  pension  
benefits and applicable qualifying rules.
- An update and appraisal of your financial  and personal situation,  needs, 
circumstances and objectives 
- A review of your attitude  toward  investment risk and volatility  linked specifically  to the 
performance of your pension funds,  to ensure continued appropriateness.  This will 
help ensure  that your risk tolerance continues to match  [the asset allocation model 
adopted/the choice  of investment funds  being used].   
We have agreed that you would  like your retirement  plans to be reviewed on an 
annual basis. The costs of the Regular Review Service will be met by way of a deduction 
from your fund. However, as a company  we give you unlimited access to us as advisers  
so you are not limited  to one meeting  a year and can contact us at any time to arrange 
a meeting, telephone appointment  or Skype call, whichever  suits  your needs. The 
costs of the Regular  Review Service will be met by way of a deduction from your fund. For 
the services described  above, an annual charge of 0.5% (typically 1%) will be deducted  each 
year. 
So, between June  2018 and when Mr W says he discovered his adviser  had disengaged,  I 
cant see hes missed out on any service. Quilter has said it will refund the fees he paid for 
the annual review that was due in January 2019. And I assume that he didnt require any 
other support or advice  during this period, to which  he was entitled, because  if he had made 
contact he wouldve discovered  the position  with his former adviser  earlier.
Of course,  when Mr W became aware  of the problem,  he then had a responsibility to protect 
his interests and mitigate the situation.
Finally, Mr Ws experience gave rise to doubt in his mind about whether the original advice 
hed been given to switch  his pension funds had been appropriate.  He didnt raise any 
specific concerns. But I can understand why he found the situation  unsettling.
Ive reviewed in broad  terms  the advice Quilter  gave Mr W and the process it followed. 
Having done so I think there were some weaknesses in its approach.
For example, I cant see that Quilter  provided  Mr W with a clear  comparison in certain areas 
between the personal pension plans  he was leaving and his new CRA  with Old Mutual. It 
says thats because it wouldve been comparing apples & pears. 
While I understand the point Quilter makes about  moving from standard  plans which  offered 
little flexibility into a drawdown arrangement allowing Mr W more latitude  about when and 
how he took his benefits, I dont think that removes the obligation it had to provide Mr W with 
more clarity  about  the differences between the options.
I think it wouldve been helpful to Mr W to have had more information about  the respective  
charges and fees associated with his former plans and the new arrangement proposed.  
Leaving aside the 0.5% fee for ongoing  services from its AR (which as we know will now be 
refunded), the fund management and product fees he was to be charged  appear to have 
been around 0.2% per annum higher than the average charges across his former plans.
Ref: DRN93840906I think it wouldve been helpful to Mr W to have had some analysis of the risk profile of the 
funds his nine personal pension funds  had been invested in, compared  with his new CRA 
Old Mutual plan. Actually, his new arrangements didnt involve him being exposed  to 
considerably more risk. And the funds he was invested in were in line with his risk appetite. 
But more  transparency on these  matters wouldve been helpful.
In terms of risk appetite,  a key element of advising in this area is consideration of a 
customers capacity for loss. Quilters suitability  report said the following about Mr Ws 
situation (bolding is my emphasis):
Risk attitude  is only one factor in determining a suitable investment strategy. Potential loss 
must also be considered  in relation  to the investors financial objectives and risk capacity. 
We discussed  expected volatility of the strategic  asset allocation expected of your 
risk profile  and your capacity for loss in respect of your pension plan and concluded 
that you will be taking  some tax-free cash .
I think this discussion of Mr Ws capacity of loss was inadequate.  Taking TFC from pension  
provisions doesnt  strike  me as an appropriate consideration. The point is Mr W was 
switching all of his pension provision into an alternative arrangement. He didnt have 
significant savings  or investments to fall back on. I think this means he had limited  capacity 
for loss. The fact that Mr W wasnt taking on a lot more risk in his new CRA arrangement  
with Old Mutual is a more  telling matter here.
While Ive found there were weaknesses  in Quilters advice process in this case, much of the 
advice it gave Mr W was adequate, for example:
-The recommendations met Mr Ws stated objectives.
-The investments  made  through Old Mutual were  consistent with Mr Ws risk appetite.
-The TFC Mr W took, which  was only around half of what was available to him at the 
time, was used to pay down his mortgage and invest in his home.
-The new arrangement led to a significant consolidation of his nine personal pensions 
into one arrangement.
-The new arrangement gave him more  flexibility about when and how to take his 
pension benefits  than was available with his former pension plans. 
-Mr W didnt  have any guarantees or protections associated  with his former pension  
plans. And he didnt incur  any material penalty  as a result  of switching.
So, although  I think there were some  weaknesses in Quilters approach, if it had done a 
better job at explaining things to Mr W, given his objectives and circumstances I dont think  
this wouldve  changed his mind about switching his nine former  personal pensions into a 
new arrangement  with Old Mutual.
Mr W has provided further feedback  about  Quilters service, including its complaint handling 
service. Hes also asked that any of his documentation held by Quilter  or its adviser be 
returned to him. These are matters  that hell have to take forward,  we cant  act as an 
intermediary. That said, he has certain rights  under  data protection regulations  that Im sure 
Quilter and its AR will comply with as appropriate.
Ref: DRN93840907Mr W asked whether Quilter or its AR are still be benefitting  financially or otherwise from the 
switch of his personal  pension  plans  to Old Mutual. The simple fact of the matter  is that hes 
no longer paying these  entities any advisory fees.  Im satisfied that I dont need to explore 
any commercial  arrangements  between firms for the purposes  of his complaint because  it 
would have no bearing on the outcome Ive arrived  at.
Finally, Mr W poses the question about whether he should appoint another  adviser  or leave 
Old Mutual to manage his funds. Im sure he appreciates it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
offer him advice  about how he should manage  his financial affairs.
putting things right
I now require Quilter  Financial Services Ltd to provide Mr W with compensation for the things 
it got wrong, as follows:
-Refund the adviser fees it identified were  paid upfront for services  he never received.
-Pay interest on the refund from the date the fees were paid until it settles at 8% 
simple. Income tax may be due on this interest.  If Quilter deducts tax it should  
provide Mr W with a tax certificate.
In addition, when  Im deciding a complaint like this, Ill think  about  whether its fair to award 
compensation for trouble  and upset. This isnt intended to fine or punish  a business  which  
is the job of the regulator. But when somethings  gone wrong,  a businesss recognition  of the 
emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day  lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations.  For me to award compensation, I need to decide that 
the impact of Quilters  actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me this was the case here.
Quilters AR failed to handle his disengagement from Mr W properly. Although it proposed  a 
refund of his fees it still hasnt paid these.  I think the offer it made originally to pay Mr W 
£100 in recognition the distress and inconvenience  it had caused  was fair. But given the 
unnecessary delay in returning his fees Im increasing this award  to £150. So, it should add 
this sum to the redress Ive detailed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. And I require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to put things right by paying him the compensation Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9384090