K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that FCA Automotive Services UK trading as FCA Automotive Services 
trading as Motor  Depot  Limited (which Ill refer to as Motor Depot)  mis-sold her a finance  
agreement changing  the terms on her original  agreement. She would like the initial  
agreement honoured.
background
Miss S says she took out a Personal Contract  Purchase (PCP) with Motor  Depot in 
August 2016 to buy a car. She says she understood that the agreement she signed allowed 
her to walk away  from the agreement after two years or to exchange the car. Miss S says 
this was appealing to her as she was planning  to start a family  and thought she might need a 
bigger car. Also she says it gave her some security, if for example, she lost her job.
Miss S says in August  2018 she asked for a settlement figure and about replacing her car. 
She says she was told she couldnt  do this until the end of the agreement. At this point  
Miss S says she felt the original agreement had been mis-sold  to her as she had understood 
she would  be able to end the agreement  after two years.
Miss S also says she had problems with engine faults, the exhaust  needed  replacing  and the 
car failed  its MOT.
Motor Depot said that it in keeping with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  guidelines it 
asked certain questions at the point of sale to establish  wants and needs. And its 
documentation  noted that if Miss S sold the vehicle before her finance agreement  was due 
to end she might owe more than the vehicle is worth. Miss S signed an agreement saying 
she understood the agreement, could meet  the financial commitments and wasnt aware of 
any potential changes  to her circumstances. It didnt agree the PCP had been mis-sold. It did 
suggest Miss S considered voluntary termination of her agreement.
my provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:
-Miss S entered into a PCP with Motor Depot in August 2016.
-When Miss S wanted to end her agreement after two years there were financial 
implications in doing so.
-Motor Depot provided detailed information about  the sale including documents  
Miss S signed. These confirmed Miss S wanted to keep her car for 3-5 years  and 
showed the match between what Miss S had sought  and what  Motor Depot offered 
her. 
-The agreement Motor  Depot offered  was a good  match with what  Miss S wanted.
-Motor Depot checked affordability, and its Compliance Manager carried out more 
detailed to ensure  what  was being offered was suitable.
Ref: DRN90148632-Miss S didnt declare, on the loan affordability  form,  any of the potential changes  in 
her circumstances such as possible redundancy or a change in her family 
circumstances that she has mentioned  to us.
-The documentation  clearly  stated that if Miss S sold the vehicle before the end of her 
agreement she might owe more  than the vehicle  was worth.
-There was no information  in the documentation Miss S signed to say what  would 
happen if she ended her agreement specifically after two years
-The total financial commitment Miss S entered into was clear
-Miss S had sufficient  information to know there would  be a financial liability  if she 
ended her agreement  after two years. I found no evidence Motor Depot mis-sold the 
agreement.
-It was unreasonable  to expect Motor Depot to honour an agreement  Miss S thought  
she had
-Miss S raised problems about the cars  engine  and exhaust in her original complaint 
form to us but these  issues had not been addressed so I was unable to issue  a view 
as Motor Depot  had not had a chance to consider these issues. I suggested  Miss S 
raise these  problems  with Motor Depot in the first instance. And if she wasnt happy 
with Motor Depots  response she could put in a further  complaint  to us if necessary.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Motor Depot has confirmed it has no comments to make in relation to my provisional 
decision.
Miss S hasnt come back with any further  comments for me to take into account.
So I have  reviewed my provisional  decision.  But I see no reason to change my view.
I found no evidence  that Motor Depot  mis-sold  the agreement to Miss S. I felt the information 
Motor Depot gave  us showed it considered very carefully what  Miss S wanted. And what she 
could afford.  And the financial  implications  of ending her agreement  early were clearly  noted 
in the documentation Miss S signed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN90148633Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9014863