K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded a CIFAS  marker  against his 
name. CIFAS  is the UKs fraud alert service.
Background
Mr A had an account with NatWest for a number of years. In April 2019, a cheque for 
£24,500 was paid into it. NatWest contacted Mr A as this was an unusual transaction for his 
account. Mr A said the money was from a friend.  
But NatWest  then received a report  from the drawers bank that the cheque  was counterfeit.  
It contacted Mr A again. This time he said the money wasnt from a friend, but from a loan 
company for him to buy a car. His debit card was used to pay the cheque in, but Mr A denied  
that it was him who did this.
NatWest closed his account and placed a CIFAS marker against his name.
When Mr A couldnt open another  account  with another bank because  of the CIFAS marker, 
he asked NatWest to remove it. He said he was fully responsible  for his actions, understood 
the severity of the earlier incident with the cheque, and regretted it. But NatWest  wouldnt 
remove the marker, so Mr A referred  his complaint  to us.
During our investigation, he told us that he was temporarily experiencing financial difficulties 
while he was waiting  for his next student loan sum to be received. When a fellow  student  
offered to lend him £200, Mr A handed  him his debit card and PIN so that the money could 
be paid in to his account.
Our investigator concluded that the marker should be removed. He thought that Mr A had 
played a role in what had happened with the fraudulent cheque,  but that hed been a victim 
of fraud  himself. He didnt  think there  was enough evidence to meet  CIFASs  high standards  
for logging  a marker.
NatWest didnt agree. It said, in summary,  that:
Mr A has changed his story  several times. He created a new story  when he referred his 
complaint to this service.
He acted  with gross negligence when he gave his card and PIN to a third party.
Mr A has admitted that he was complicit in the fraud and acknowledges the severity  of 
what hes done.
The cheque was paid in some distance away from where Mr A lives and where he 
studies. But this doesnt  mean  it wasnt him who paid it in.
Ref: DRN98904332My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cheque paid into Mr As account  was fraudulent.  But before placing the CIFAS marker 
against Mr As name, NatWest needed to have  a reasonable belief  that criminal charges 
could be brought  against  him as a result of the activity. A suspicion or concern isnt enough.  
So I need to decide if theres enough evidence to show that Mr A knew  about  the cheque  
and was involved in this fraud.  
I dont think Mr A did know about  the fraud  and that he is one of the victims here. Let me 
explain why.
Mr A told us that when  he told an acquaintance at university he was struggling to make ends 
meet whilst he was waiting for his next tranche of his student loan, they offered  to lend him 
£200. He says that, in order credit his account,  the acquaintance asked for Mr As debit card 
and PIN. 
Mr A recognises now that he shouldnt  have handed his card over.  But at the time he was 
young and, although hed recently withdrawn £250  in cash, he had less than £10 in his 
account with his student loan payment not due for another month. I think its plausible that he 
was worried about  how he would make ends meet for the next month.  And that, when an 
acquaintance offered him a loan of £200,  he wouldnt have asked many questions.
I think its probably likely that Mr A knew more than hes told us. But I think its unlikely he 
knew the full extent of what  was going on. I think  its also likely he was persuaded to allow a 
third party  either his acquaintance or someone they passed the card to  to use his 
account to move funds.  And that he didnt  realise  this would amount to fraudulent activity.
I dont think theres enough evidence to show that Mr A paid the cheque  into his account 
himself. The cheque was paid in through an ATM  using  Mr As genuine card and PIN. Mr A 
says he didnt pay it in  and that hed handed  his debit  card to someone  else. I think  his 
testimony is plausible.  The bank obtained  CCTV footage of the ATM, but wasnt  able to view 
it. So it cant say for certain  that Mr A knew about  the cheque.
Hes told us that when  he realised what had happened, his acquaintance  told him to say the 
money was from a loan company. He was clearly confused and didnt know what  he should  
do. Unfortunately he didnt tell the bank  what  had actually happened.
As noted by our investigator,  CIFASs  standards  for recording a marker are very high. And, 
whilst NatWest was right to be suspicious of Mr As involvement, I dont  think it had enough 
information to place a marker against  him. So I think it should be removed.
Ive considered whether Mr A should be paid any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this has caused. But bearing in mind he has to shoulder  some of the blame 
here  he handed his card and PIN to a third party   I dont make any award.
Ref: DRN98904333My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  remove  the CIFAS marker 
against Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9890433