K822xcomplaint
Mr Q complains that Halifax  Share Dealing Limited  failed to provide him with accurate or 
sufficient information  about the sale of certain  US shares in a timely  manner.
background 
Halifax upheld his complaint, admitting it hadnt  given  him the specific  information necessary 
to complete his US tax returns in its first two replies, this information  only being  provided via 
a third letter nearly a month on. Noting  he had complained about the time Mr Q had spent 
pursuing this and the cost of the calls it felt £115  was appropriate compensation.
An investigator at this service broadly agreed that Halifax  offer had been fair and 
reasonable, even  taking  account of the time,  trouble, phone  costs and postage.
Mr Q did not agree and said he felt this sum didnt  reflect the time and costs involved in 
pursuing this issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax accepted  that it hadnt provided  Mr Q with the information requested and on two 
occasions. I also acknowledged that this had resulted in unnecessary  phone  calls, time and 
effort. It also pointed out that its sole responsibility  was to provide details of the payments  
debited and credited and appropriate tax certificates. It was not able to provide  tax advice.
According to Mr Qs detailed evidence, Halifax made  a series of repeated errors including  
referring to the wrong tax rate. As Halifax upheld his complaint in full, I assume  all these  
errors did occur. Given this, and the evident amount of time and effort  Mr Q devoted  to trying 
to get Halifax  to provide the correct  information  I do not think  £115 was a fair offer.
Instead, I believe it should pay Mr Q an additional £300. This, in my view, is still a modest 
sum given  the trouble and upset  this issue has caused Mr Q and does not fully compensate  
him for the time involved in pursuing things. But this service does not typically  compensate 
complainants in this way.
I told Halifax why I felt this figure  was broadly  appropriate taking account of the evident  
trouble and upset  its failings  had caused. 
It did not agree, saying:
It only offered an execution-only service and it could not provide information which 
might be considered advice. Its responsibilities were limited  to providing the 
appropriate tax certificate detailed dividend  payments
Mr Q sought  information beyond its remit such as the applicable tax rate and the 
amount of withholding  tax paid; it sought  to help with this information despite it not 
being required to so should  not be penalised  for not doing this more effectively
He has already had a complaint about  this specific  issue  rejected by the ombudsman  
service
Ref: DRN98437602I completely accept Halifaxs point about  what information it was and wasnt  required to 
provide, and took this into account when  assessing how much compensation I thought  was 
appropriate. But, overall, I felt its responses  were slow, inadequate  and confusing  and, given 
the importance of the issues at stake,  caused Mr Q considerable unnecessary  trouble and 
upset. If Halifax had quickly and clearly spelt out what it would and would  not do then Mr Q 
would have known  what he could expect and what he would have to deal with himself.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Halifax Share  Dealing Limited  to pay Mr Q £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9843760