K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  policies taken out in 
2001, 2003 and 2007. Mr and Mrs I say Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them  the 
MPPI on each occasion. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Is case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
There isnt much in the way of documentation  left from the time of the earlier  sales.  But 
this isnt surprising  given Im looking at events  from so long ago  more  than fifteen 
years. It also looks like the later policies  were sold without  any additional borrowing 
being taken. Im also mindful that the documentation remaining from the 2007 sale does  
refer to Mr and Mrs I having chosen  to take MPPI. So overall I think that Mr and Mrs I 
wouldve known they didnt have to have  MPPI  to have a mortgage with BOS. And as 
this is the case, I think BOS made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs I didnt  have to take out the 
MPPI and they chose  to take it out  on each occasion - although I can understand why 
they cant remember this.
BOS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs I each time so it had to check  that it was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the respective 
times, I think that it was. For example, the monthly  benefit  on the policy  was spilt equally 
between them. And Mr and Mrs I werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the MPPI  cover.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs I about  the MPPI  wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Equally  while they mightve  been entitled to some  sick pay from their respective 
employers, the MPPI  wouldve paid out in addition to this and for potentially longer.  So I 
think it wouldve been useful for them had either of them  had to stop working suddenly  
especially as it was protecting the payments to their mortgage.  In these circumstances, I 
dont think better  information  about  the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the 
cover on either occasion. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs I have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold  on either occasion. So BOS doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs I paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs I 
back some  of the cost of the MPPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs I now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN90392612my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9039261