K822xcomplaint
Ms J, acting in her capacity as sole trader of her business, P, complained  that WorldPay 
(UK) Limited (WorldPay), which provides the card payment reader she uses for her 
business, made a series  of technical  and manual  errors  in processing customer payments in 
November and December  2018. She says these errors were compounded  by a delay in 
sorting them out.
background 
Ms J experienced a series of errors using WorldPays  card payment system. She says they 
caused temporary financial loss to her customers, indirect financial loss and reputational 
damage to P, and distress, anxiety and inconvenience to Ms J. The errors were:  a missing 
payment of £60 in November; two duplicated transaction payments for two of her customers  
for £10 and £30 respectively at the beginning of December; the further charging (a third 
time) of the same two customers  on 21 December;  and delays in putting  things right over the 
busy Christmas  period.
Besides exchanging emails, Ms J made three  phone  calls to WorldPay  on 13, 17 and 24 
December, to try to resolve matters. This was while she was on maternity leave. Both of the 
dissatisfied customers complained to Ms J about the service they were receiving from P and 
one threatened  to report her to Trading Standards. Because of the time WorldPay  were  
taking to rectify the situation, Ms J has said she felt obliged  to provide these customers  with 
refunds from her business account, together with a small goodwill payment.
Ms J complained to WorldPay,  asking  for at least £2,000 to compensate her for indirect 
financial loss to her business  due to reputational damage. She said this damage caused the 
loss of repeat business from her upset customers, and other future  losses  caused by word  of 
mouth. She also claimed for the distress, anxiety and inconvenience she had suffered as a 
result. Customers of P have already had any direct financial losses they incurred returned to 
them.
WorldPay accepts that Ms J was inconvenienced and deserves to be compensated. In its 
final response letter of 3 January 2019,  they offered a compensation payment of £50 in full 
and final settlement of Ms Js complaint. They  subsequently  raised this offer to £150  then, on 
24 September, to £350. Ms J feels this amount  is inadequate. Our investigator thought that 
WorldPay should pay Ms J £700.
WorldPay didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation  and asked an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
my provisional decision
I sent out my provisional decision on 17 December 2019. In it, I addressed five points: a 
missing transaction  of £60; transaction charges; direct financial loss incurred by Ms J; 
indirect financial loss; and distress, anxiety and inconvenience. As my comments in relation 
to the first two raised no response  from either  party, I will not address  them  again here. So 
far as the other three elements are concerned, this is what  I wrote:
Direct financial loss incurred by Ms J
Ref: DRN95841032The direct financial loss suffered by Ms J amounted to £15 she paid to each of the two 
unhappy customers as a gesture of goodwill. This combined sum of £30 is considered as 
part of my award, below.
Apart from this, Ms Js claim for compensation has two elements: (i) indirect  financial loss 
caused by reputational damage following the loss of repeat  business  from two upset 
customers and potential  future losses elsewhere  caused by word of mouth;  and (ii) the 
distress, anxiety and inconvenience caused her as the result  of WorldPays mistakes,  and 
her attempts to resolve them.
Indirect financial loss
Ms J has told us that P relies on repeat business  and she has valued this at £200-300 per 
customer. As two customers of P were  inconvenienced and left temporarily  out of pocket as 
a result of WorldPays actions, these customers may not make any further  purchases. While 
I think its quite reasonable to say that Ms J is likely  to have lost out on repeat business from 
these two customers, resulting in some loss of profit, this loss is difficult to quantify 
accurately. Ms J has not produced any evidence beyond her statement of a £200-300 spend 
per customer over multiple orders over a period of time.
Ms J has also explained  she relies heavily on word  of mouth  for business  and says that 
WorldPays actions have  affected Ps reputation  among  future potential  customers. It is 
possible that there are future potential customers who could be influenced by the negative  
experiences of the two customers, if they were aware of them,  but I think this is speculative.
P has a strong online reputation, including good online reviews. Without some  specific  and 
measurable damage  to the reputation  of the business (in which  case  a substantial  amount of 
compensation might be justified) it is difficult to see what  actual loss has occurred as there 
isnt any other evidence of loss or damage. I have  considered the extent  of the reputational 
damage, which does  not look as if it extends  beyond the two unhappy customers  and, even 
there, the loss is largely speculative, and I cant identify any specific damage.
Distress, anxiety and inconvenience
I accept that the investigators initial view that WorldPay should  have credited any refunds by 
the end of the business day the error  was reported is incorrect.  Nevertheless, WorldPay has 
admitted that the refunds took longer than they should have and accepted responsibility for 
this as a combination of technical  and human  error.
In trying to resolve her problems, Ms J phoned  Worldpay three times. At the same time,  I 
have seen that over December 2018 and January 2019, she was in email  correspondence 
with her two customers who were asking her for their refunds. I appreciate that Ms J spent 
time making  these phone calls and reading  and responding to a number of emails.  I also 
acknowledge that Worldpay was slow in resolving  matters  and more  than once gave  Ms J 
conflicting information and assurances  that the problems would be rectified within a certain 
timescale, which proved  wrong. This made  Ms Js problems  with her customers worse.
Ms J first contacted WorldPay to complain about the duplicated payments on 13 December 
2018. Instead of being  refunded,  these payments were taken again by WorldPay  a few days 
later. Having looked at the invoice  WorldPay  provided to P for January 2019,  I can see that 
the issue was eventually resolved when these refunds were issued that month. This was 
Ref: DRN95841033over three weeks later; longer than Worldpay said would be the case and longer than it 
should have taken.
Any award of compensation for Ms Js distress, anxiety and inconvenience must be a 
proportionate reflection  of the impact  that Worldpay's actions have had on her, and I can 
consider the particular impact these have had on her as an individual. The impact  of 
WorldPays actions may have been greater  as they came at a particularly busy  time of year,  
and the inconvenience was made worse by the fact that Ms J was on maternity  leave at the 
time.
While I understand that Ms J was on leave, and not expecting to have to work, on the other 
hand, Christmas Eve is a normal working  day, and being a sole trader  means that Ms J 
would always have  to deal with any problems that might arise  within  the business herself. 
The repayments took significantly longer than they should have  done  but were  made by 
WorldPay in January, as shown by their January 2019 invoice. Also, while  I dont 
underestimate the irritation of the two customers and the impact this had on Ms J, the tone of 
the customers in their email correspondence  with Ms J was pretty measured. I therefore 
don't think  the inconvenience was significant  enough for us to ask the business to pay any 
additional compensation.
Under all the circumstances, I think WorldPays offer of £350  to cover direct  and indirect
financial loss and the distress, anxiety and inconvenience caused to Ms J is reasonable.
the response to my provisional  decision
In response to my provisional decision,  WorldPay said they had nothing further to add.
Ms J provided further evidence and comment in relation to: her direct financial loss; to her 
indirect financial loss; and to her distress,  anxiety  and inconvenience and I consider these 
below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Ms Js response  to them.
Direct financial loss incurred by Ms J
I originally said that the direct financial loss suffered by Ms J amounted  to 2 x £15 = £30 and 
I included the restoration of this sum as part of my award. Having considered her 
representations and evidence of payment, I can now see that Ms J also refunded one of her 
two disgruntled customers a further  £60 to cover  the amount of the money which  that 
customer had lost. In its recent  emails,  WorldPay has told us that it didnt refund this sum to 
Ms J and was unaware at the time of the complaint  or when it was refunding her customers, 
that she had done so. Im therefore persuaded that WorldPay should pay Mrs J a further £60 
to cover this item too.
Indirect financial loss
I have now seen a spreadsheet  produced by Ms J setting out the spend of 23 repeat 
customers. Their individual total spends  range from £74 to £928 and between 3 and 11 
Ref: DRN95841034separate orders. Most individual  spends are between  £80 and £200.  However,  this is not a 
list of all of Ms Js customers, only those who have  made multiple purchases and over an 
unspecified period of time. As such,  I dont  think its a very representative sample. The 
purchases of the two customers in this case were both very modest and one was for £10 
from a market stall. So, its not really  possible  to extrapolate from these with much 
confidence. I still think the loss which Ms J claims in this area remains  too speculative  so Im 
not persuaded to change my mind  on this.
Distress, anxiety and inconvenience
On the question of distress, anxiety and inconvenience , I have considered the additional 
comments Ms J has provided but, having seen nothing new, and having given this point 
serious consideration in my provisional decision,  once again,  Im not persuaded to change  
my mind  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I direct WorldPay  (UK) Limited to raise 
their offer of £350 to £410, which I conclude would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9584103