K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains about the way The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) handled a career 
development loan (CDL)  application.  
Background
Mr K applied for a CDL online via a government website in August 2018.  As part of the 
application process Mr K confirmed he would be a student at the start of his the course the 
CDL was intended to partially fund. The application  form asked for gross annual and net 
monthly income figures which Mr K said were £0. Mr K said he was paying  £525 a month in 
rent. Co-op declined  Mr Ks CDL application.  
On 20 August 2018 Mr K spoke to Co-op to find why the application wasnt successful. Mr K 
was initially told it related to information on his credit file but Co-op went on to confirm it was 
due to affordability concerns as he hasnt provided  any information about  his income. Co-op  
said Mr K could apply again  or write  to it to request an appeal. Co-op call transcripts  say that 
Mr K was told he could provide evidence of his income by way of bank statements or 
payslips to support  an appeal.  
Over the following weeks Mr K spoke  with Co-op  on a number of occasions.  Underwriters  
relooked at Mr Ks application but confirmed the decision  to decline stood as there were 
concerns about  affordability. 
Mr K complained about how his CDL application  was handled. Mr K says he answered  the 
questions on the application form correctly and that Co-op has taken the information  he 
provided out of context  which  led to its decision to decline. Mr K feels Co-op  should  bear 
some responsibility for the way the application  form has been set out. Mr K says Co-op failed 
to contact him as promised or deal with his complaint in a timely  manner.  As a result of 
Co-ops decision Mr K says hes had to borrow money elsewhere on more expensive terms. 
Co-op responded to Mr Ks complaint on 4 October  2018 but didnt  agree that it had 
mishandled the application. Co-op said the CDL application form was designed by the 
government and that he could have asked  for help if he was unsure of how to complete  it. 
Co-op apologised that Mr K didnt receive a call back and sent him a cheque for £30. Co-op 
said Mr K could still apply  for a CDL and gave him information about how to do that. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an adjudicator to review.  The 
adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint  as he thought Co-op had dealt with it fairly. The 
adjudicator didnt agree that Co-op was responsible for the design of the application form or 
feel that its decision to decline  the CDL application  was unreasonable. Mr K asked to appeal  
so his complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive been reasonably brief above  in 
setting out the background  to this complaint as Mr K, the adjudicator and Co-op  have all set 
out the circumstances in detail. Mr K has recently  sent in a detailed  report explaining his 
concerns. Whilst a lot has happened, all parties  broadly agree about the overall timeline  and 
key events. 
Ref: DRN93485742I can see Mr K has spent  a lot of time and effort in bringing his complaint. I want to assure 
Mr K that Ive read and considered all of the information and comments  hes sent in, as well 
as everything Co-op has submitted. Im not going  to respond to every point Mr K has raised 
and will focus on what I think are the key issues. I hope Mr K wont  take that as a 
discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
The application was completed via a third party government website. The government  
department responsible for the scheme designed  the application process and questions that 
would be asked. I accept  that Co-op  used the information  collected  as the basis for its 
lending assessment, but that doesnt mean  its responsible for the way the application  itself 
is formatted. Mr K says he should be able to complain about  the questions  and format of the 
application to Co-op but I dont agree. 
I note Mr Ks point that this stance means he has limited recourse in terms of parties he can 
complain to. Whilst I accept that may be the case, I havent found grounds  to say Co-op was 
responsible for the way the CDL application  was set out or the questions it contained. 
Ive seen the spreadsheet Co-op  received  from the government after Mr K applied.  Ive also 
looked at the application  printout  Mr K sent in along  with the application  information  Co-op  
supplied. The questions and answers match between the different versions  of the 
applications Ive seen and Im satisfied  that Co-op used the information Mr K provided. 
Mr K says he provided the right answers  and Co-op  misunderstood the information he gave.  
But, the questions  about gross annual  and net monthly income dont specify the period they 
refer to. So whilst I think Mr Ks decision  to put £0 because he wouldnt be earning while 
studying was reasonable,  I also think the question could be interpreted  as asking about his 
income at the time of application. 
Im not persuaded that the information  Mr K provided was the only reasonable answer 
applicants could give. But, as Ive said above, I havent found that Co-op is responsible  for 
the questions  asked in the application form.  I dont think  Co-op is at fault for the responses 
Mr K gave.  
The application was assessed by Co-op and declined. It was later reviewed by the 
underwriters again  and its decision to decline remained. Quite  early  in the process, around 
20 August 2018,  Mr K was advised  how he could  appeal  or reapply, and given details of the 
information Co-op needed. Whilst I appreciate  Mr K was unhappy  with the nature of the 
questions he was asked,  I think it was clear at that point that the CDL application needed to 
know about his current income. Mr K decided not to reapply which  was a choice he was 
entitled to make. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr K was told he could reapply. 
Co-op completed a credit  search on Mr K after the application was submitted and thats 
reflected on his credit file. Co-op is obliged to report accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies.  Im satisfied the record of the credit search Co-op  completed  accurately 
reflects that Mr K applied for a CDL. 
Ref: DRN93485743There were some service issues and Mr K has raised the timeliness  of Co-ops  response  to 
his complaint. But Mr K complained around  20 August 2018 and Co-op issued its final 
response on 4 October 2018 which is within the 56 day time limit allowed. Co-op accepts 
Mr K didnt receive a call that was promised and apologised. Co-op also sent Mr K a cheque  
for £30. I think the £30 Co-op has offered fairly reflects the impact of its failure  to call Mr K as 
agreed. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter. But I havent 
been persuaded to uphold his complaint. As Ive said above, I dont agree that Co-op is 
responsible for the CDL application format. And I havent found that it took information  
provided by Mr K out of context. I understand the logic behind why Mr K gave his income as 
£0 but I havent been persuaded  that his approach was the only reasonable one to take. I 
also have to take into account  that Co-op  told Mr K what  he needed to do to appeal and 
reapply in good time. Taking  everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied Co-op  dealt with 
Mr Ks complaint fairly  so Im not telling it to take any further  action. I leave it to Mr K to 
decide whether  to accept Co-ops  offer of £30. 
 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9348574