K822xcomplaint
M, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank  Plc (trading  as Barclaycard) did not do 
enough to prevent it losing money through the chargeback of card payments.
background 
M has a merchant services agreement with Barclaycard. It contacted  Barclaycard when four 
card payments taken  from the same cardholder on the same day were charged back  in April 
2018. These payments were keyed into the card terminal  and were  reported as fraudulent 
by the genuine cardholder. There were  further chargebacks of payments made in a similar 
way between June  and August 2018. Barclaycard said it could remove the option for manual 
payments and had then offered to pay M £50 as a gesture of goodwill. But it said M was 
responsible for the chargebacks.
Our adjudicator did not recommend Barclaycard do anything more.  She said that:
-There were  now chargebacks relating to four different cards over the period.  These  
were in groups  of payments  on the same or consecutive days  for each card. Over 
£1,800 had been charged back in total.
-M said it had identified  the person doing  this on CCTV now and this person had been  
able to distract staff and manipulate the card machine.
-M was responsible for the security of the machine and the way in which  it was used 
as Barclaycard had no control  over that. Here the terminal  had not been used in line 
with the operating instructions. An imprint of the card and a signature should  have 
been taken for manual payments and this would have  helped defend a chargeback.
-It was not feasible for Barclaycard to warn merchants individually about distraction 
techniques but it had highlighted such risks in a message on the account statement it 
sent to M for May 2018.
-She thought  it strange that one person was able to process  a number of relatively 
high value transactions in this way without causing suspicion. She thought that the 
staff of M ought to have been  more  vigilant.
M did not agree. The director said that Barclaycard should have given M the option to have 
the manual entry of transactions removed when she first called. Barclaycard should  have  
been aware that M had no need for this option in the first place. When customers  made 
payments they generally covered the entry of their PIN. So its staff were  not at fault if the 
card machine was tampered with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that M has been the victim  of card fraud. The person responsible  for the 
loss is the person carrying out the fraudulent  payments. But I understand why M wants to 
know why Barclaycard had not done more to stop this happening and to disable the manual 
card entry function  on the terminal.
The first four payments in April 2018 were  of a relatively small amount  just over £45 in total 
and seemed in line with normal card payments taken by M. These were keyed manually 
using the card details  and may not have aroused suspicion. But the operating instructions 
provided by Barclaycard set out the particular risks of taking  card payments in this way. The 
Ref: DRN96316072only way for the fraudster  to derive any benefit  was for some goods  or services to be 
received. And it was open to M to choose not to accept manually keyed card entries  and 
especially multiple ones.
Those risks were  especially clear  to M by April 2018 and Barclaycard didnt then offer to 
remove the facility  altogether.  Thats  something it says is not common and is only done in 
exceptional circumstances.  And I think that by then M would be reasonably alerted to the 
potential losses of accepting payments  in this way and of its staff being  distracted. 
The person  carrying  out the payments became  bolder in following months and took larger  
multiple payments.  If that person was keying the details themselves  several  times during  a 
day then Im afraid insufficient care was being taken of the card terminal.  Such entries  would 
require much more than the reasonable time to enter  a PIN. 
When M spoke to Barclaycard again in August 2018  it discussed four charge  back payments 
 coming to over £450 in total and all taken on 29 June 2018. I think  that its response  then to 
offer to block manual payments along with a goodwill payment of £50 was reasonable. But 
unfortunately there were more charge backs to come for payments that had already been 
taken.
Im afraid M was responsible for the way in which its card terminal  was used and for any 
successful chargebacks under the terms and conditions  of its agreement. M was reasonably  
aware of the risks and the possibility of fraudulent payments taken in this way. So it shouldnt 
have been necessary for the facility to be removed altogether. In my view that wasnt 
something Barclaycard  had to offer in April 2018 based on the chargebacks at that time  
and nor could Barclaycard  reasonably  have  expected the significant repeated losses  that 
would follow. So I dont  have a basis to find that Barclaycard can bear any responsibility for 
those losses. It offered to pay £50 as a goodwill gesture for this issue  which I know  M did not 
accept. I think that this should  fairly  still be available to M.
my final decision
Barclaycard has already  made an offer to pay £50 to settle  the complaint and I think that this 
offer is fair under all the circumstances.  So my decision is that Barclays  Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard should  pay M £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9631607