K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold  her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 2002 Miss P took out a credit card with BOS. At the same time she was 
sold a regular premium  PPI policy to cover  her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought Miss P had made it 
clear in the application she wanted PPI and the policy wouldve suited  her needs.
Miss P disagreed. She says she doesnt  recall PPI being mentioned and wouldnt have 
opted for it.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Miss P was sold the PPI during a meeting when she applied for her credit card. BOS needed 
to make it clear the PPI was optional and Miss P says this wasnt  done. Miss P hasnt given 
us much detail about what was said at the meeting to make her think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold so long ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents 
from the time show.
Ive looked at the original credit card application and agreement form sent to us by BOS  and 
can see within section 5 Product details it says to mark the relevant boxes if credit card 
repayments cover or card care is wanted.  I think this couldve been worded better and set 
out more clearly but I think  it presents  the PPI as optional.  
And from what we understand about BOSs  sales process there wouldve been a discussion 
about PPI and then the application form wouldve been completed and printed out for 
reviewing and signing. I can see that an X has been pre-populated in the Credit Card  
Repayment Cover box indicating that Miss P wanted to take out the PPI and Miss P has 
signed and dated the form just to the right of this. I think its likely Miss P wouldve seen that 
the PPI box was selected and if she hadnt agreed to take it I think she wouldve raised this 
with the sales  advisor.  
So I think Miss P wouldve understood the PPI was optional and it was selected on the credit 
card application  because she agreed  to take it. And based on what  Miss P has told us I cant 
say its likely BOS did do things to make her think the PPI wasnt  optional.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Miss P could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the 
policy was suitable  to her needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN94492592I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss P for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Miss P says she was entitled to some sick and redundancy 
pay but had no other  guaranteed means  of making her credit card payments  if she 
couldnt work or lost her job. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits 
and covered her credit  card payments for up to 12 months  if she couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness or lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful 
benefit to Miss P in her circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time and 
if she decided he no longer wanted  the policy she couldve cancelled  it which  I see 
she did not longer  after the policy was sold.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Miss P information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. I dont think BOS did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the policy was suitable  and based  on what  Miss P has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
shed been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Miss P isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9449259