K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Legal  & General Insurance Limited handled  their home insurance 
claim poorly.  They say the repairs were  delayed, they received poor service, and their 
familys health was put at risk. 
background 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy is underwritten by Legal  and General, which  means its responsible for 
their claim and complaint.  Mr and Mrs C dealt with various parties during their claim,  but for 
ease I will mainly refer to Legal and General throughout my decision.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim after sewage overflowed into their shower room. The incident 
happened in October 2017 and they made the claim straight  away.  The repairs  were 
completed in August  2018.
Mr and Mrs C made  several complaints during the claim  process, and Legal and General 
offered £100 to put matters right on two occasions,  so a total of £200. Because  they 
remained unhappy, they referred  a complaint to this service.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  a detailed timeline of what  happened  outlining  the impact  the 
issues had on them and their two teenage children. Its not my intention  to repeat that same 
level of detail here, but I have relied on their timeline, and Legal  and Generals  internal  
notes, when considering their complaint.  Ill summarise the claim timeline and 
Mr and Mrs Cs concerns:
When the incident occurred Mr and Mrs C arranged for a drains  specialist to attend;  
who diagnosed  the problem to be a collapsed soil pipe. Mr and Mrs C were  advised 
of the sewage and encouraged to contact their insurer, Legal  and General.
Due to the sewage,  Legal and General arranged for Mr and Mrs Cs family to stay in 
a hotel. Loss adjusters were  also appointed  to assess  and manage the claim. The 
loss adjusters were  to arrange contractors to fix the soil pipe,  but the waiting time 
was six weeks. Mr and Mrs C contacted their original drains specialist  who could 
complete the repairs in less than two weeks, so Legal  and General agreed.
After the soil pipe was fixed,  Mr and Mrs C and their two children moved back  into 
their home. Accessing the soil pipe caused damaged to the shower room, and the 
loss adjusters asked  Mr and Mrs C to obtain quotes for the repairs.
Mr and Mrs C submitted  two quotes for about  £7,000. But the loss adjusters only 
offered half of this amount based  on how much it would cost one of its authorised 
contractors to complete  the repairs  it also noted the quotes  were for an entire  
bathroom refit and it was of the view some of the sanitary wear could be reused.     
Mr and Mrs C werent  willing to accept  the sum being offered, so they therefore 
agreed for an alternative contractor to be appointed by the loss adjusters.
Ref: DRN92077082In mid-January 2018 the appointed  contractor visited the property  to scope for the 
repairs. Mr and Mrs C say the contractor  immediately  asked  whether  the shower 
room had been decontaminated, which it hadnt. Mr and Mrs C say their family 
suffered from diarrhoea and acute lethargy  after moving back  home  and the 
contractor raised  concern  about active spores and suggested a bio-sweep be 
completed.
Mr and Mrs C contacted Legal and General about their health concerns  and it tried 
to find them suitable accommodation to move  into, but it was unable to do so. The 
next day Mr and Mrs C found  their own accommodation, which Legal and General 
agreed to. The accommodation was arranged  for two weeks, to allow for the 
bathroom to be stripped  out and the bio-sweep.
Mr and Mrs C say they were chasing the relevant parties  to get matters  moving over 
a ten day period   but nothing progressed. The bio-sweep was then booked before 
the strip-out, so the bio-sweep had to be done again. 
Mr and Mrs C also say that during this period  they were continually  making enquiries 
about whether  their guest house accommodation  would be extended as it was clear 
the works wouldnt be completed  within the two weeks. They  say they werent  given 
an answer until the day before they were  due to move out  and they were  told they 
would be moving into a holiday-let  property.
Mr and Mrs C complained that the proposed  property wouldnt be suitable  because it 
was located in a red light district.  They say they asked for an extension in the guest 
house they were  already staying in, but this was initially refused due to costs. They 
say the situation caused  them  a great  deal of stress; and highlight the short  notice 
and the delays caused by the parties  involved. They also say there was a lack of 
concern for their well-being, and for their children taking exams. However,  after        
Mr and Mrs C escalated their complaint, their preferred  accommodation was 
extended until the bio-sweep  had been  done,  which took a further ten days.
Mr and Mrs C say the repairs were  meant  to start soon after their return  home   but 
the works didnt  start for about  four months  later. They say they had to go back and 
forth between the loss adjusters and the contractor  to query items missing from the 
material choice sheet,  and then wait for these items  to be authorised.  Mr and Mrs C 
have also highlighted  failed  call backs and missed commitments  included starts 
dates which were  rearranged on three occasions.
Legal and General  noted the job took two months to be started after it had authorised  
the repairs, and its contractors explained the delays  were  caused by Mr and Mrs C 
making material choices; its plasterer being  sick long term; and too much strip-out  
works being undertaken which meant a new scope  was required. In terms of the 
plasterer, Mr and Mrs C say they provided  a quote for another plasterer but this 
option wasnt taken  up. 
There was disagreement  over whether the original sanitary  wear  should be sanitised 
and re-used  Mr and Mrs C were  not comfortable with this due to the sewage.  The 
loss adjusters eventually agreed to replace the sink (and other items that had gone 
missing in storage), but declined  to replace the toilet because  it was intended for 
sewage. So Mr and Mrs C agreed to pay for a new toilet themselves. However,        
Legal and General  later agreed to replace this item too, to resolve the dispute.
Ref: DRN92077083The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who thought  it should be upheld. 
He thought £800 compensation should  be paid to Mr and Mrs C for their trouble and upset 
during the claim. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with this amount  so Legal and General 
offered to pay £1,000. Because Mr and Mrs C were unwilling to accept this offer, their 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs timeline,  I will consider  their concerns under the following 
two headings:  health concerns; and delays and service.
health concerns
Mr and Mrs C and their two children spent six weeks in their home  without the affected area 
being adequately sanitised.  Given Legal  and General  immediately moved them back  out of 
their home upon learning that a bio-sweep hadnt taken place, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Cs 
family shouldnt have been told to return before this work was done. So Im persuaded the 
family was exposed to an unnecessary health  risk.
However, we havent been shown anything that leads  me to conclude  the familys health was 
placed at significant risk  and neither have we been  shown  or told anything  that persuades 
me they suffered serious ill health during that time. But I accept what  Mr and Mrs C say in 
respect of their family  suffering from diarrhoea and lethargy during the period in question, 
and its not my intention  to underplay  what happened. I also dont doubt  Mr and Mrs Cs 
upset when being told their family had been placed  at risk.
In terms of compensation, its difficult placing a figure on a situation like this. But taking  into 
account what Ive said above and having thought about matters carefully, overall I consider 
£500 to be a fair and reasonable award  for what happened here.
delays and service
During a claim such as this, where lots of different  parties are involved, there is likely to be 
some periods of delay  due to the communication and co-ordination required. An amount of 
inconvenience is also to be expected   such as moving out of the home, ordering items, 
liaising with the parties involved, taking  time off work, and living through  the repairs.
However, based on what we have been  told, Im persuaded there were periods of delay  
which were unreasonable  and Ill cover these off in turn.
I understand the strip-out, bio-sweep,  and subsequent drying  took about four weeks in total. 
If this work had been undertaken  from the outset, I consider it likely that this aspect  would 
have been completed during the time Mr and Mrs C were obtaining quotes, so Im 
persuaded the claim was delayed unnecessarily by a month here.
Ref: DRN92077084Mr and Mr C say the drying was completed  towards  the end of February, but the works  didnt 
start until the end of June  so there was about  a four month  delay here. In my opinion, its 
not unreasonable for there to be some delay  whilst  material choices are being made, any 
variations are agreed,  and contractors  become available to start. But Legal and General 
hasnt given much detail about  these  four months,  so overall  Im not persuaded anything 
above a month between  the drying and the start date should be considered  reasonable. 
Furthermore, it has accepted there were issues caused by the strip-out and plasterer 
availability.
Therefore, I consider  it reasonable to conclude that the claim was delayed unreasonably for 
a month  initially, and then for a further  three  months after the drying. So four months in total.
Mr and Mrs C have also outlined their frustrations  during the claim due to having to do lots of 
chasing. They have  given a relatively  detailed and persuasive account of what  happened, 
and in the absence of information to the contrary, I accept what they say. 
Mr and Mrs C have also expressed frustration  about the quotes they obtained.  But Im not 
persuaded they were given any guarantees about  their quotes being  accepted.  I say this 
because Legal  and General had its own contractors who could do the work. But overall, 
given Mr and Mrs Cs frustration, I consider it likely the loss adjusters could have been 
clearer about this before they went to the trouble of getting quotes.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy that they were asked to leave the guest house  and move  to 
the holiday-let property.  Due to the circumstances outlined by Mr and Mrs C, I agree a more 
pragmatic view could have been taken from the outset.  But ultimately, their concerns were  
listened to and this matter  was resolved.
Finally, I note Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about  their sanitary wear  but Im not persuaded the 
loss adjusters approach was unreasonable if the items in question  could be sanitised. In any 
event, this issue was also resolved.
I have carefully considered what compensation should be awarded  for the four month delay, 
and for the instances of poor service (most of which occurred during these delays). Overall, 
Im satisfied a further £500 fairly  acknowledges  the level of trouble and upset Mr and Mrs C  
suffered beyond the general inconvenience that, in my view, is to be expected with a claim 
such as theirs..
So in conclusion, overall Im satisfied that the £1,000 offered by Legal  and General  is a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  If £200 has already been paid, this means a 
further £800 is due.
my final decision
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C will remain  disappointed. But for the reasons given, I uphold  
their complaint. I require  Legal & General  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C a total of 
£1,000 for the trouble  and upset caused  during  their claim. 
Ref: DRN92077085Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.  
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9207708