K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about  their home insurer  AXA Insurance UK Plc because it 
has accused them of committing  fraud in respect  of a claim they made  to it after their home 
was burgled.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  burgled on 11 December 2018 and they made  a claim to AXA. Amongst 
other stolen  items were a number of jewellery  items and high value watches. Damage had 
also been caused by the thieves splashing bleach  around the property and over some 
contents.
AXA had some initial concerns about  the loss and appointed an investigator  to take a 
statement from Mr B and to investigate the reported  loss. The investigator  visited
Mr and Mrs Bs home on 17 December,  interviewed Mr B and took away  some paperwork 
Mr B had provided in evidence of his loss. Included within that bundle  was a home-printed  
copy of a bank statement, with a printed  date (in the American style)  showing on the top of 
the page of 12/15/2018.
The investigator made a report  to AXA in January 2019. The report noted that some claim 
payments had already been  made. The investigator felt the claim was genuine, with bleach  
having been used by the thieves as a forensic countermeasure. Having considered  the 
matter AXA agreed  to move to the validation phase  of the claim, which  would involve 
checking the price  and proof of ownership  evidence for the jewellery items.
AXA appointed a jewellery specialist  to validate  the jewellery items on 31 January 2019. The 
specialist made its report on 19 February 2019. It referred to a bank  statement which had 
been produced  to show evidence of the purchase  of two Rolex watches, which  Mr B had 
described to the investigator as replicas, which showed an amount of £6,400 being paid to 
P W (abbreviated by me). The report went on to note some issues of concern the jewellery 
specialist had with other  details  Mr B had provided  to it in respect of how and when the 
watches were purchased.
AXA decided to look into the watches in more  detail. AXA had a number of other  concerns 
too and it put everything to Mr and Mrs B in writing, asking for their comments. Mr and Mrs B 
responded but AXA wasnt satisfied  by what they said. It then assessed an electronic  copy of 
the bank statement,  provided to the jewellery  specialist  in February 2019, and which  it had 
received a hard copy version of in December 2018.  It found  the statement had been altered  
by Mr B  the name of the true payee had been covered by a textbox containing the name 
P W. AXA noted that data within the electronic document showed Mr B had added the text 
box. It confirmed this by referring to an IT expert.  AXA spoke to Mr B and he said he had felt 
pressured and bullied by its investigator to provide  proof of ownership  for the replica watches 
and this was why hed amended the document before providing it as evidence.
AXA wrote to Mr and Mrs B. It listed a number of concerns that still remained  for it regarding 
the claim,  including  certain aspects to do with how and when the watches in question  were 
purchased. But it noted the provision of the falsified bank statement, which  Mr B had 
admitted to amending with a view to evidencing ownership of the said watches and drew 
attention to the fraud condition of the policy. AXA issued a final response confirming it had 
declined the claim  on the basis of the fraud condition and that it was reviewing its position in 
respect of the policy cover.
Ref: DRN99035612Mr and Mrs B complained to this service. Mr B told us that he hadnt really  intended  to claim 
for those  watches but had included them in the loss list presented to AXA because hed had 
to tell the police about them  in case of recovery. He said it wasnt  fair that AXA had accused 
him of fraud  he was underinsured anyway so wouldnt  be entitled  to settlement for 
everything, meaning he hadnt been  trying to gain a benefit in respect of the watches. It 
seemed, Mr B said,  as though AXA had been looking to find a way to get out of settling the 
claim from the outset.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B had been  trying to gain financially and accepted hed felt 
pressured into providing proof regarding the watches. He felt AXAs  allegation of fraud had 
been unreasonable.
AXA said there were many issues of concern for it, not just the amended bank statement. 
AXA said in its view amending the statement could only have been  done with a view to 
making a gain from the policy  and it hadnt  forced Mr B to amend the document or provide it 
to it.
The complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I felt AXA had acted fairly and reasonably in 
handling and declining the claim. I issued a provisional decision to which  both parties 
responded. AXA said it accepted my findings,  Mr and Mrs B contested them.
I said provisionally:
Fraud is a serious allegation. As such we expect  an insurer,  when alleging  fraud  has 
occurred to be able to support its allegation with clear strong  proof which shows its 
conclusion is fair and reasonable. A list of concerns and discrepancies in accounts of events  
will rarely be seen  to be sufficient to satisfy this service  that its reasonable for the insurer to 
rely on a breach of the fraud condition within the policy to decline a claim and/or cancel a 
policy. So whilst Ive noted that AXA has set out many concerns about this claim, my main 
focus, at this time, falls on the amended bank statement.
It isnt disputed that Mr B amended the bank statement. So he did falsify  evidence. Setting 
aside the issue  of financial gain for a moment,  if I felt that AXA had exerted undue pressure 
on Mr B and this had caused  him to amend and produce the bank statement, then I might 
well say it would be unfair for AXA to accuse him of fraud. But Im not persuaded the 
statement was amended and produced only in light of pressure from AXA. I say that because 
the amended  document was first presented to AXAs  investigator, as a hard copy,  during the 
visit that took place  on 17 December 2018.  The document was printed a few days before. 
The expert evidence  shows the amendment was an electronic one  so it was amended at 
some point before it was printed.  Ive not seen,  in the run up to the meeting with the 
investigator, and only a few days after the theft took place, that AXA pressured Mr B to such 
an extent he reasonably felt forced to falsify evidence.
My view regarding financial gain turns similarly  on the date of the printed hard copy 
document. At the time Mr B was amending  this document it isnt clear  he was aware  he was 
underinsured and, therefore, wouldnt be entitled to full settlement for all of his lost items.
And even  if Mr B were  to now say that was indeed the case, in such  circumstances, Im 
afraid Id have difficulty tracking any logical thought that might have allowed for amending a 
document to better show ownership  of an item which likely fell outside  the policy cover.
Ive also considered Mr Bs argument  that he didnt  intend to claim for the watches, rather  he 
Ref: DRN99035613mentioned them only because they were  listed on the police report. However,  it is clear  that 
when it came time for his loss to be validated, Mr B provided the evidence  regarding the 
watches to the jewellery specialist. From what I have seen it was only after this and the 
beginning of the enquiries which followed it, that Mr B said he never intended to claim for the 
watches.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think AXA acted unfairly when it concluded  that the 
document can only reasonably have been falsified with a view to gaining  a financial benefit.
But regarding fraud it isnt sufficient to show that a document  has been falsified with a view to 
gaining a financial benefit. Importantly the financial  benefit being sought  has to be one the 
claiming party wasnt entitled to receive. So I need to consider whether its likely  that
Mr and Mrs B owned the watches in question, because  if Mr and Mrs B likely owned these 
two replica Rolexes, then,  arguably, they were  only trying to gain something they were  
entitled to under the policy.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs B, Im not satisfied theyve evidenced that they likely owned two 
replica Rolexes. Essentially, they purchased the items via cash, there are no photos of the 
watches being  worn and, they say, no paperwork for the watches was provided by the seller. 
I can see from the correspondence that Mr and Mrs B accept that they cant evidence 
ownership of the items and, unfortunately for them, that means Im not persuaded that they 
were likely entitled to benefit,  in respect  of them, from the policy. I think it wasnt  
unreasonable for AXA to conclude that items  likely not owned were being  claimed  for.
I realise that my findings will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B; that is regrettable. However, 
I am satisfied that, on this occasion, AXAs reliance on the fraud  condition  to decline the 
claim was fair and reasonable.
I know Mr and Mrs B have  said they felt AXA was intent on finding a way to not pay their 
claim from the outset. I dont think that is the case. AXA clearly had some concerns to start 
with, but this was a high value claim with some  slightly odd circumstances reported about  the 
theft. It doesnt surprise me that AXA wanted to investigate the matter further. But, having  
done that, and in relatively short order, AXA moved  to validating the jewellery items for 
settlement. Unfortunately  that process highlighted further issues of concern for AXA,  followed 
finally by it noting  the amendment on the bank statement.  Im not persuaded that AXA did 
anything wrong  or poorly handled any part of the claim or investigations.
In reply Mr B sent a copy email, dated  18 December 2018 which he said shows  the pressure 
he was being  put under to provide evidence for his claim. He went on to explain that 
originally AXA appointed a loss adjuster and the adjuster asked for documents to be 
gathered to be available to consider at his visit. But AXA then sent an investigator  instead 
who took all the information away rather than going  through it with him at the time. Mr B said 
they did discuss the boxes for the watches  in question, and he explained  he thought the 
boxes were fake but believed the watches to be real. 
Mr B said if a loss adjuster had attended hed have discussed the payment evidence for the 
watches with the adjuster and removed them from the loss list if necessary, they were  only 
ever added because  theyd been  notified  to the police.  Mr B maintained it had never been his 
intention to de-fraud AXA.
Mr B contested that there  was no evidence of his owning the watches. He said there were 
the boxes, and also a photo  hed been sent by a friend in June 2019.  The friend had found 
Ref: DRN99035614the photo on the internet  and Mr B says that it does show one of the watches in question  it 
had been taken by his son shortly  before the burglary. 
Mr B went  on to discuss some of the other  issues AXA had said it had concerns about.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Bs comments  in reply to my provisional findings.  However,  they dont 
change my view on the complaint. I dont intend to comment further  on the other  issues  Mr B 
has replied about   whilst Ive noted them, they arent material  to my findings.
The email  Mr B has provided to show he was put under pressure by AXA post-dates  the print 
date of the hard copy of the amended bank statement. So if the email did make Mr B feel 
pressured, it cant have  been that pressure which caused him to amend the bank statement.
Mr B said AXAs investigator did see the boxes and the watches in question were discussed.  
I cant, therefore, see why Mr B couldnt reasonably have flagged  the bank  statement  at that 
time if hed wanted  to discuss and explain it.
This service sometimes considers that items like boxes can be considered as evidence  of 
ownership of an item. But we also accept that sometimes a box alone isnt enough. At the 
time AXA assessed the claim  there  was no other evidence of ownership at all  not even any 
photos  and Mr and Mrs B accepted they couldnt  show they owned the watches. If 
Mr and Mrs B want AXA to consider  the photo theyve now supplied,  which  they were sent in 
June 2019, they can send  it to it  this will likely  have to be done electronically  as I expect 
AXA will want  to look at the data stored  within the photo. If AXA thinks that evidences the 
replica watch/watches  claimed for were owned then it can review  its fraud  decision.  Based 
on the evidence  AXA had available at the time of the complaint which has led to this 
decision, I think the decision it made  and the action it took,  were  fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9903561