K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 took out a joint mortgage with his late father, Mr M2, in 1996 with Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax. 
Mr M1 says that during this application, a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy was 
mis-sold to him because  PPI was never discussed and he didnt need this type of cover.
background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr M1 its unlikely to be 
upheld. He asked  for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mr M1s  central point of complaint is that PPI was never mentioned. However,  this sale 
relates to events from 23 years ago and weve not got much to refer to. Many of the 
documents seem to be no longer  available and given how long ago this was that isnt 
particularly unusual, or indeed unreasonable. Businesses arent  required to keep records  
indefinitely.
Nevertheless, we do have access to some  of Halifaxs computerised records  which indicate 
that a discussion  took place about having  PPI with the mortgage. I also note that only Mr 
M1 was ever covered by the PPI. Mr M2 wasnt  named on the policy so this suggests  to me 
they had probably  given  some thought to their situation and what they wanted to do. 
Ive also seen quite  a few Halifax mortgage PPI sales from this time period. My general  
experience is that the consumers would have been sent or given the PPI schedule saying 
who and what was covered and the applicant would have needed to authorise  the monthly 
premiums to leave their bank account by signing a direct debit (or similar).
So in the absence of the type documentation  wed normally expect to see, theres more 
evidence to say the policy was sold correctly,  as there is to say it wasnt.   On balance  I think 
Halifax probably obtained the necessary consent.
Halifax accepts it recommended this cover  to Mr M1 and his late father, so it had a duty to 
make sure it was suitable for their situation. 
Overall, I think it was.
This is because Mr M1appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these  policies. The price seems to me to be 
comparable with similar policies from around  that time and Ive seen nothing that suggests 
it wasnt affordable for him. He was also younger and the principal  earner.
Ref: DRN92564362Mr M1 said he didnt  need the cover because he also had sickness protection with his job. 
Ive thought very carefully about his job and the benefits Mr M1 told us about. But I dont 
think they made the PPI unsuitable. The mortgage  was secured against their home  and so 
the consequences of not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the 
event of a successful claim, the cover Mr M1 bought was payable for up to 12 months  and 
this would have  been in addition to any other  means  he already had in place at the time.  
So although  I cant say why Mr M1 decided to buy this policy, I dont  think Halifax 
recommending it to him was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I cant 
confirm now if he was told everything  he ought  to have  been. But I think  the costs of the 
cover would have  been  disclosed and details  given about what was covered. I think  he had 
enough information on which to make an informed  decision.
There is not enough evidence to say this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr M1 and the estate of the late Mr M2s complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M1 to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9256436