K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains, on behalf of Mrs S, that Financial Administration Services  Limited (Fidelity) 
failed to provide  them  with the capital gains tax (CGT) information required to implement 
long term changes to their investment strategy. It also didnt respond  to repeated requests 
for this information and did not respond to their complaint in a timely manner.
background
He said that because of this failure,  there is a potential impact on their future inheritance  tax 
liability for which Mrs S should  be compensated. He would also like Fidelity to compensate 
her for the time and cost incurred in seeking external tax advice about her liabilities, and to 
pay the lost CGT allowance for the 2017-2018 tax year. He also believes it hasnt provided 
the service they have  paid for so wants it to refund the fees Mrs S has paid since  2006.
An investigator at this service noted that Fidelitys  online tool provides CGT reports  to 
financial advisors but this is not available directly to clients. It also couldnt calculate Mrs Ss 
unrealised CGT gains.
She noted that Mr S and their advisor  had asked  Fidelity  to provide a CGT report  but said it 
was not required  to provide this. Further, she did not agree that a failure to provide this was 
a breach of regulatory requirements.  She felt the facility to produce CGT reports  was an 
extra service  which Fidelity happened to offer but it didnt  form part of the service  which  it 
agreed to provide under Mrs Ss terms and conditions. Also,  the evidence  made  it clear  that 
Fidelity didnt provide  tax advice. As such,  the online  tool was never intended to replace the 
need to obtain proper  tax advice elsewhere.
She said that a full transaction history was available to Mr S (Mrs S) and their advisors via 
Fidelitys website, and this could have been  used to perform the calculations needed to 
establish the unrealised  CGT gains before the end of the tax year. So the fact that the tool 
wasnt working, shouldnt  have prevented Mr and Mrs Ss advisors from working out her 
unrealised CGT gains.  She recognised that using  the raw data to carry out the CGT 
calculations may have been difficult or onerous  but its not something that Fidelity had to do 
 and she was not persuaded it is something Fidelity prevented them from doing.
She said that the file note also showed  that it was known from November 2017 that Fidelity 
would not be able to produce  a CGT report so there  was enough time to arrange for the 
calculation to be done manually before the end of the tax year.  For these reasons, she 
couldnt ask Fidelity to compensate Mrs S for the losses which Mr S claimed were  
attributable to its failure to provide a CGT report.
She also did not think it should  refund  Mrs Ss fees as these were not solely designed to 
cover the cost of the online CGT tool. It also paid for various  things including access to 
Fidelitys fund supermarket platform, online account  management, guidance services, 
statements, and access to its UK based  call centre; all of which  Mrs S enjoyed.
However, she did think that Fidelity had failed to respond to Mr Ss letters  of complaint 
promptly, and that this was a missed opportunity to remind them and their financial advisor 
that although a CGT report couldnt  be produced, they already had potential  access to the 
transaction history  needed to establish the unrealised gains  figure. 
Given this, she felt Fidelity should  pay Mrs S compensation of £250.
Ref: DRN92783862Mr S, on Mrs Ss behalf,  did not agree, and said:
Its document Doing  Business with Fidelity  sets out its aims to Help  you realise your 
long-term financial goals.  ... We believe in making things easy  for you
There can be no dispute  that capital gains tax matters  were of vital importance to 
investment decisions, planning for the future  and the achievement of long term goals
These statements  create the reasonable expectation that necessary support to make  
things easy for you on tax matters will not only be available  but are of the essence  of 
the client contract.  Judgements of what is fair and reasonable  must therefore be 
made against this standard it has set itself - and contracted to deliver
It is also important to make judgements of what is reasonable in the context of 
expected or normal  good practice  in the relevant industry  sector; and the enclosed  
letter from his solicitor  expanded  on this issue of judgement
CGT reports were  not an extra  service outside the accounts terms and conditions or 
something Fidelity was not required to provide. Both Fidelitys own promises  and 
applicable industry standards contradict this
While  Fidelity does not provide tax advice, that doesnt mean that it wasnt  required 
to provide tax data.  He was simply asking for the data required to establish  Mrs Ss 
tax position; he could then if necessary seek tax advice
A full transaction history was not available on Fidelitys website at the time, as it 
admitted (citing site migration problems)
So he could not have calculated Mrs Ss CGT  figures via the website
What else could  he have done  to mitigate  Mrs Ss losses? The losses were  solely  
due to Fidelitys inability or refusal  to provide the figures repeatedly requested
Even when transaction histories became available on its website, these did not allow  
him to make  proper  CGT calculations. Amongst other things,  the data contained no 
realised gains or losses, had no reference to dates of acquisition or original value of 
assets being traded, and provided no audit trail for reinvestments of dividends or 
income
He is also disturbed to discover that Fidelity is regularly carrying  out transactions in 
its capacity as fund manager - for example to fund its management  charges   and 
these automatically crystallise capital gains in the portfolio  that are unassessed and 
unreported
Separate reports on its website claim to show realised gains or losses  from 
transactions on asset holdings but these  are still either not available or incomplete, 
and the separate portfolio valuation reports do not provide  the information necessary  
for CGT purposes i.e. to take proper account of disposals, reinvestments  or 
reallocations
Extracts from a recent printout from Fidelity's website [not available  at the time of the 
original complaint] purport to be a full record of transactions on one of their accounts. 
The record is in date order and shows  no transactions between  April 2009 and 
December 2014, a period when the account  was active and significant  reinvestments 
of dividends and interest were being made along with regular transactions  relating to 
settlement of management fees and other matters
This report  is therefore materially incomplete  and useless for tax calculation or any 
other purpose. In addition it shows that transactions have  been  made  over the years 
that may have crystallised CGT liabilities without such  liabilities being assessed,  
notified to them  or recorded; and in any case do not include necessary information  
such as date and value of acquisition of assets  being traded, which  are required to 
calculate CGT liabilities
Ref: DRN92783863Another extract from a CGT report Fidelity recently provided lists asset  disposals  but 
without any corresponding acquisition dates,  values or other  data, and simply records  
gains or losses for CGT purposes as 'not available'.  Once  again  this document  is 
useless for all practical purposes, which suggests that their inability to calculate  gains 
and losses can only arise because  the underlying  records are incomplete  or 
unavailable
It appears that Fidelity  has either lost a substantial  part of the historical data relating 
to their investments  or has chosen  not to go to the trouble and cost of entering 
historic data when it moved to new systems  regardless of the consequences for them 
as clients
Overall, its systems, records and available reports are not fit for purpose and he is 
surprised that the Financial Conduct  Authority allegedly has no problem with this
Its failure to provide  necessary  and industry-standard tax information  goes to the 
heart of its contractual commitment. This is the service for which its management fee 
is paid and which it has failed  to deliver
Its failure to adhere to its undertakings, coupled with a lamentable  disregard of the 
requirements of its own complaints procedures, constitutes something more serious 
than a missed opportunity and unnecessary inconvenience. This was a failure that 
ran to the most  senior levels of the company, had significant adverse consequences  
and casts doubt on its integrity  and competence as a financial service provider
In the context of its multi-billion pound business  the proposed £250 payment is 
completely inadequate  and does  not reflect the seriousness of the issues nor will 
have any impact  on its future  behaviour
This offer is also completely inadequate  merely  in relation to the time and trouble  this 
issue has caused them
Fidelity responded  to several of these points, saying:
The transaction history as shown on its website is a complete list of all the 
transactions
All the funds in Mrs Ss General Investment Account were  accumulation funds which 
meant there were  no dividend reinvestment transactions by the very nature of 
accumulation-class shares
Prior to November 2015  the management fees were paid out of the Annual 
Management Charge of the fund, which was factored into the underlying price of the 
fund
This was known as bundled-class shares  so no deductions were  made  so no 
transactions showed on Mrs Ss account
After this date, and the introduction  of clean-class shares, fees were  deducted and 
shown on the transaction  history
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I recognise  that Fidelity, in effect, promises a great customer-focused  service, 
including making  things easy for its customers.  But, in my view,  this is no more  than a typical  
general statement  of its ambitions,  and does not promise  any particular service   such as 
specific help in calculating  potential CGT. So I dont accept Mr Ss view that Fidelity  or this 
complaint can be judged by what he, or other customers, feel it ought  to provide.
Ref: DRN92783864Instead, Fidelity need only,  in my view, provide the services set out in its terms and 
conditions, and any associated documentation.  In this context it did not guarantee to provide 
a CGT  tool either  for customers or their advisors.  The fact that it offered this service  was, as 
the investigator said, an add-on service  and not part of its contractual  commitment.
It also made this very clear on its website where it spelt out the various limitations of the tool, 
and spelt out that customers  or their advisors  should not rely on it. Its Disclaimer was 
detailed and extensive.
I accept that Mr S, in his recent clarification, states  that this complaint is not solely  or 
perhaps primarily about the CGT tool but about  Fidelitys failure to promptly provide  a full 
and reliable transaction history, and in a format which  allowed their advisor  to calculate the 
CGT position. But he does complain at various points about the tool not working so I felt it 
was important to clarify that Fidelity was not required to provide a constantly-working, 
accurate CGT tool as part of its terms and conditions, so any problems with the tool were  not 
grounds to uphold this complaint.
Secondly, concerning the online access to his transaction  history, Fidelity said that Mr S 
(and by implication Mrs S) had never registered  on the site so could not, by definition,  have 
had access to the necessary transaction history. From what Ive read, he has not disputed 
this. Fidelity also said that if clients ring and ask for copies  of their full transaction history, it 
will send this. Again, Ive seen no persuasive evidence  to indicate that Mr S (or Mrs S) did 
this. 
So I dont  accept his argument that it was practically impossible to obtain the information 
necessary to assess the CGT position in time to make appropriate decisions within  the tax 
year in question.  It follows that I dont believe Fidelity should pay the compensation he has 
requested.
I accept that there is a dispute as to whether Mrs Ss online history was always available, 
and I dont think the evidence either way is conclusive  (Fidelitys recent  statement not being 
proof that Mrs Ss transaction  history was available in 2018 on any particular date). But I 
think it is unlikely that Fidelitys entire online client  site was unavailable  for an extended 
period such that it was impossible for clients  to access it within the necessary tax year time 
limit. If this had been the case I think Fidelity and this service would have seen hundreds  of 
complaints about  this issue, assuming  it did not just affect Mr and Mrs Ss accounts. Nor do I 
think it is likely that its transaction history  pages  are flawed in the way Mr S implies. Again, if 
the pages did not provide  an accurate account of clients dealings  or customers  had not 
been able to calculate CGT positions as a result of the inadequate information,  I think 
Fidelity (and this service) would have seen  hundreds if not thousands  of complaints about 
this. 
I also dont agree that there is sufficient evidence  to conclude that the transaction history 
documents were  flawed  or insufficient to calculate Mrs Ss specific CGT position. In this 
regard I think Fidelitys  evidence is persuasive,  including for the reasons the investigator 
outlined.
I am also satisfied that Fidelitys explanation  of its changed mechanism for deducting fees is 
a reasonable one. Ive not seen  persuasive  evidence that it has taken fees it was not entitled 
to. So for these reasons I dont believe Fidelity should return  any of its management fees.  
Ref: DRN92783865These covered  a range of services and Ive seen no evidence that it failed to provide these 
other services.
So I dont  share  Mr Ss view about  Fidelitys  failings. Instead, I agree with the investigator 
that it could and should have dealt with their advisors requests more promptly and helpfully. 
But, from what Ive read,  Mr Ss complaint letters primarily  focused on his contention  that 
Fidelity should be providing  CGT  reports to their advisor  something  neither I nor Fidelity 
believe it was required to do  rather than specifically requesting copies of Mrs Ss 
transaction history. For example, in his letter of 16 March  2018 to Fidelitys  Chief  Financial 
Officer, he complains that Fidelity failed to a full report including a breakdown of CGT and 
reinvested gains. 
In this context, I feel that £250 is a not unreasonable sum in lieu of the specific trouble and 
upset Mrs S experienced.  I dont dispute that she experienced far more  trouble and upset  
than this but I dont  believe Fidelity  was generally at fault. It was not required to do many of 
the things Mr S (Mrs S) felt frustrated about.  
Finally, I have considered  Mr Ss other  points  but I dont believe they affect  the overall merits 
of this complaint.  Ultimately, I dont share his view of Fidelitys responsibilities or of its 
alleged failures.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  to the degree outlined above and instruct Financial Administration 
Services Limited to pay Mrs S £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9278386