K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that a car she is financing through an agreement with BMW  Financial 
Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss C took receipt of a new car in March 2018.  She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. But she returned the car to them the next month as she 
noted an interior light was only working  intermittently.
The dealership were unable to repair the light. In July 2018 they said a fix wasnt  available 
and it may take some  months before it was.
So Miss C complained to BMWFS and told them she wanted  to reject the car as it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
BMWFS didnt agree. They said this was a minor defect and that it didnt mean the vehicle 
was unfit for purpose. They offered to refund  four monthly finance instalments to Miss C but 
would not allow her to reject the car.
Miss C therefore referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator considered the 
evidence. She noted that Miss C had referred  the fault to BMWFS after shed had the car for 
a very short  period of time. She was persuaded that the fault was therefore  most probably 
there from the beginning. She explained that relevant legislation would allow the business an 
opportunity to repair the fault, even a minor  one. But as this was clearly not possible she 
thought it would be fair for BMWFS to allow Miss C to reject the car and to refund her 
deposit with 8% simple  interest.
BMWFS didnt respond to the adjudicators view so the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  The  relevant law says, amongst other  things, that the car should have 
been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the 
Ref: DRN91527742supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account  any description of the goods, the price  and all the other  relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Miss C. The car 
here was brand new so I would not expect any faults with it.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMWFS to put this right.  
Relevant legislation would  encourage us to assume that if a car developed a fault in the first 
six months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
And it says that when  we consider what satisfactory  quality is its important to consider  
(amongst other things) that the there is freedom  from minor defects.
Here I dont think the car was free from minor defects  as Im persuaded it was most likely the 
interior light had failed  or was failing when  the car was supplied  to Miss C. Legislation would 
therefore allow BMWFS an opportunity to repair the fault. But here thats clearly not possible 
as one has been requested for some  months and is evidently not available.
So I think the fairest resolution would be for BMWFS  to now allow  Miss C to reject  the car. In 
those circumstances  they should return the deposit  she paid and add 8% simple interest to 
this deposit to compensate Miss C for being deprived of that money whilst she was in 
possession of a car that was of unsatisfactory  quality.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss C;
refund  Miss Cs deposit and add 8% simple  interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Ref: DRN91527743Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9152774