K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  a claim he made  on his motor  
insurance policy.
Background
Mr H purchased a motor insurance policy from an insurance broker.  The policy  was 
underwritten by Aviva. His car was stolen overnight from outside his house so he contacted  
Aviva to make a claim.  During  the claim process  he let Aviva know  he kept a spare key 
inside the car, in a middle compartment,  to allow his wife access  if she needed it.
Because of this, Aviva declined the claim saying that the terms and conditions of the policy 
stated that claims wouldnt be covered if ignition  keys were left in or on the insured car.
Mr H didnt think this was fair so he complained to Aviva.  Aviva  didnt change its position and 
the claim remained declined. So Mr H brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the facts of the case and concluded  that Aviva hadnt  acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Mr H wasnt happy with this and asked an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so., Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be 
disappointed by this so Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr H has made a number of comments relating to what he considers  Avivas responsibilities 
to be, the methods thieves use to steal cars and the care with which  he locked his car 
overnight. I confirm I have  read everything  he and Aviva have submitted and Ive considered  
all thats been  said but I will only comment on those things  I consider  relevant to the decision 
I need to make. That may mean I dont make specific reference  to some of his comments in 
my decision.
Aviva is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy and the terms and 
conditions define  what those things are. My role as an ombudsman is to decide  whether 
Aviva has acted within those terms and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage  or loss. But, when an insurer wants  to
apply an exclusion or say a condition has not been  met and so decline a claim, as is the 
case here, the onus  is on it to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion or 
condition applies.
Ref: DRN91629502In this case, theres no dispute that the car was stolen and this was an insured event. So my 
starting point for this decision is what the policy terms say. In the policy,  under Exclusions to 
Section 1 the terms state:
We will not pay for:
(4) loss or damage arising from theft while:
(a) the ignition keys of your car have been left in or on your car
I think this term is clear  and not misleading. Given that Mr Hs testimony was that hed left a 
spare key in the car at the time it was stolen while parked outside his house overnight,  Im 
satisfied that the exclusion  applies and Aviva  can fairly rely on it. And because of this, Im 
satisfied Aviva didnt act unreasonably  when it declined the claim. 
Mr H says this exclusion  wasnt highlighted to him when he purchased  the policy and he 
says this was Avivas responsibility.  But as the policy was sold through  a broker  not by 
Aviva, Im satisfied this responsibility was not Avivas. 
So, in summary,  I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Aviva to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9162950