K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms Vs complaint is about their joint mortgage endowment policy.  They are 
unhappy with how the policy has been  administered and that its value hadnt been better 
protected by Countrywide Assured Plc.
background
On 1 October 2018 Countrywide sent Mr C and Ms V the maturity pack for their endowment 
policy. This included  details of the value of the policy at that date and what they needed to 
do to release the funds once it had matured.
Mr C telephoned Countrywide a few days later. He has explained that he had become aware 
that the unit price  associated with his policy was decreasing and was concerned about what  
he and Ms V would  receive at maturity.  He says he was then advised  it would have been  
possible to surrender the policy to safeguard the value of the policy. However, there  would 
be no guarantees as to what unit price would be paid as this would depend on when the 
paperwork was received by Countrywide. Mr C said that at that stage he considered it was 
too late to do anything to protect  their policy value. In addition, he put forward  that this was 
the first time he was advised that it was possible to surrender  the policy to safeguard the 
value of the policy. 
The following  day Mr C again telephoned  Countrywide. He wanted to know why the unit 
price of his policy  had gone down,  despite UK and overseas stock markets  having made 
gains the previous day. The member of customer services  staff he spoke to was unable to 
answer his question. He was not happy  about  this as he expected this information to be 
readily available.
Mr C and Ms V wrote to Countrywide following receipt of the endowment maturity value. 
They were  concerned the value had dropped by over £1,100 between the initial maturity 
letter on 1 October  2018  and the maturity date approximately six weeks later. They  asked 
why, given the impending maturity of the policy why it was not ring-fenced  and protected to 
ensure minimal impact on the final value.  They  pointed out that, having recently read the 
policy literature, there  was a safeguard in place  to protect the fund value once it had reached 
its target and questioned  why there  was nothing to protect the value if it hadnt.
Countrywide responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It gave a brief explanation of 
where the relevant fund was invested. As it was spread over various investment sectors,  an 
increase in one, wouldnt  necessarily lead to an increase in the fund value and, therefore, 
the unit price. It wasnt able to confirm  why the unit price of a specific fund had changed  on 
any particular day due to the number of factors that affected it.
With regard to ring fencing the value of the policy as it approached  maturity, Countrywide 
confirmed it couldnt  do that. It was unable to predict whether unit prices would go up or 
down. The only time it could switch holdings to the deposit fund is when the target  value of 
the policy had already  been met.
Mr C and Ms V werent satisfied with Countrywides  response and referred their complaint to 
this service. The complaint was considered  by one of our investigators,  who didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. 
Ref: DRN90231232Mr C confirmed that he and Ms V werent  happy  with the investigators view. He thought  the 
fund managers  would  know if the fund value would go up or down and Countrywide should 
have acted accordingly. They believe Countrywide failed to advise them on how to 
safeguard their policy and was only interested in increasing the premiums, for which  there 
was no guarantee  of a return.  By this they think Countrywide could have advised them on a 
yearly basis that it was possible to surrender the policy early and set out the advantages and 
disadvantages of doing so, with the suggestion that it would be best to seek  independent 
advice. 
Mr C and Ms V said they hadnt known what they were  letting themselves in for at the start of 
the policy and needed Countrywide to keep them informed about the policy  and what  actions 
they could take.  Mr C and Ms V asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman  as 
they felt that Countrywide had failed in its duty of care toward  them.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C and Ms V are disappointed that the value of their policy 
decreased in the last few weeks before maturity. However, they have a unit linked policy  
which includes no guarantees about  how much  it will be worth  at maturity  or any other time. 
As far as I can see Countrywide did what it agreed to. It took Mr C and Ms Vs premiums and 
invested them in a specific fund. The fund was managed  to try and get the best returns  
possible. It was in no-ones interests for the fund to do badly.  In other words, the success  of 
the business and the individual managers  involved will, to some extent, rely on them  
investing to get the best possible returns.  
Unfortunately, the simple  fact is that the fund didnt perform as well as was hoped for and its 
value dropped in the period just before Mr C and Ms Vs policy  was due to mature. I am not 
persuaded, as Mr C believes, the fund managers would have known this was going to 
happen. Had they known in advance, it seems highly likely the fund managers would have 
taken action to prevent  that fall.
I note the policy requires Countrywide  to protect  the maturity value of a policy which  has 
reached its target value.  This is not an unusual term in such  policies.  However, Mr C and 
Ms V are unhappy this wasnt done  for their policy, to prevent it suffering losses  in the last 
weeks. As this isnt something  the policy offers, I cant say Countrywide  was wrong not to do 
so. In addition,  if it had done  so and the fund value had increased, I am sure Mr C and Ms V 
would have been unhappy to have been  deprived  of an increased  policy  value because  of 
actions taken by Countrywide.
Mr C and Ms V have said they werent  told they could  surrender  the policy early. This isnt 
something I would  usually expect a life assurance company to do. Whilst the concept may 
well be mentioned at the time of a sale, surrendering long term investment early  is not 
something that is usually  thought to be a good idea. As such, before a financial services  
business would recommend it be done, it would be expected to fully assess the suitability of 
doing so given the individual  circumstances of the policyholders. Countrywide  doesnt offer 
this service and it doesnt have to. 
Ref: DRN90231233Overall, I dont  consider  Countrywide did anything wrong in relation to the administration of 
Mr C and Ms Vs policy or the service level it provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C and Ms V to accept  or reject my decision 
before 11 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9023123