K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited wrongly increased 
their renewal premium under their motor policy following an incident  that wasnt their fault.
background
Mr C was driving his wifes  car when it broke down. Unfortunately, the recovery agent 
damaged the car writing  it off. Mr C reported this to Admiral. Following this conversation,  he 
agreed to let Admiral  handle the claim against  the recovery driver. 
Admiral said if it was able to recovery its costs from the insurers for the recovery driver, the 
No Claims Bonus (NCB) wouldnt  be affected. But until that time, it would be classed as a 
strike against the protection of the NCB which their policy provided and would be classed 
as a claim against the policy.
Following this whenever Mrs C then tried to buy a motor policy  in her name or was added  as 
a named driver,  the premium amount had increased substantially,  due to this incident.
Mr and Mrs C thought  this was very unfair  and complained to Admiral.  Admiral agreed it 
hadnt explained clearly how the incident would affect future  premiums,  so it offered Mr and 
Mrs C £35 compensation. Mrs and Mrs C remained unhappy and wanted  the incident  
removed from Mrs Cs record and thought Admiral should compensate them  for the 
increased premiums theyve had to pay. Admiral didnt agree.
So Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. The adjudicator  was of the view that Admiral 
hadnt done anything wrong  in detailing this incident as a non-fault  claim on Mrs Cs record.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed,  so their complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
The damage that happened to Mrs Cs car at the hands of the recovery agent was not in any 
way Mr Cs fault or indeed  Mrs Cs fault.  It was of course the fault of the recovery  agent. Its 
the same  situation  for example, if Mrs Cs car had been parked legally on a road and 
someone else had crashed  into it, similarly writing it off. In this example  two scenarios could 
have occurred, the first being the other driver was identified, the second scenario being 
where the other driver  fled the scene and couldnt  be identified.  
In either  case,  Mr and Mrs C would have  been under a legal duty to tell Admiral what had 
happened, just as they were under a legal  duty to tell Admiral  what  happened with the 
recovery driver. This is because what Admiral insured  under  the policy was Mrs Cs car, 
which had now been written off. 
So regardless of who was responsible for writing the car off, it remains  an incident  under Mrs 
Cs insurance record, which by law has to be recorded against  Mrs Cs motor  insurance 
record. Here quite  rightly its recorded  on Mrs Cs insurance record  as a non-fault accident.  
But this isnt because  it obviously  wasnt  her fault,  or the fault of Mr C, its because Admiral  
Ref: DRN99058422was able to obtain the full costs of the claim from the recovery  drivers insurers, so Admiral 
wasnt out of pocket. 
Going back to the example above, if Mrs Cs car had been written off by an unidentified  
driver, it might have been recorded as fault accident solely because naturally Admiral  would 
have had to pay Mrs C the market value of her car and would not have been able to recover  
it from the unidentified driver who fled the scene.
Mr and Mrs C had the NCB protected, which was correctly unaffected by this incident.  But 
that only relates to the bonus  or discount on the premium, not the underlying  premium  itself. 
Mrs C now has the history  of having  an insured car written off, albeit it wasnt her fault.  All 
motor insurers, and not just Admiral,  take this sort of history into account for a certain 
number of years, when  deciding what price to charge  for the premium  for a new policy.
Each insurer is entitled to decide for itself what sort of risk that sort of history might pose and 
charge accordingly.  Neither this service  nor I have the power  to interfere with that, as thats 
all permitted by the insurance regulations as set down  by the regulator, which is the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. And once Admiral or indeed  any other insurer treats every 
applicant with such a non-fault as Mrs C the same, I consider  thats fair. Here  Admiral hasnt 
singled Mrs C out or treated her differently to any other person with the same non-fault 
history.
If Mr C had dealt with the recovery driver himself, instead of agreeing that Admiral  would do 
that on his behalf, every  application form to include Admirals requires him to detail this 
incident for any new policy. In any event, he would  have had to tell Admiral on the basis that 
the recovery agent wrote the car off and that it no longer required any insurance. So its 
actually irrelevant that Admiral dealt with the recovery drivers  insurers  on Mr Cs behalf 
because in any event  the incident would always form part of Mrs Cs history, going forward. 
Its the incident itself which causes the premium amount to increase, 
I do understand why Mr C is frustrated given  his conversation with Admiral at the time. But 
Admiral has admitted its agent should  have been  clearer in explaining  matters  and it offered 
£35 compensation  for this. And I think thats  adequate  compensation. This is because as 
detailed above,  whether  Admiral dealt with the recovery  agent or Mr C did, the incident 
would have always been recorded on Mrs Cs insurance history  and would have increased 
her premium  in any event. It wasnt Admirals involvement that put this incident  on Mrs Cs 
record. Thats because its simply an incident both she and Mr C have to disclose when 
applying for another policy, given it happened and that every  insurer asks about such  
incidents in every application form.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9905842