K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has failed to provide adequate support for 
them when they experienced difficulty with their mortgage account, that it failed to take into 
account their vulnerabilities and that no alternative  products were offered to them until March  
2019. 
To settle  the complaint they are asking  Barclays to reimburse them for the difference  in 
interest paid on Standard  Variable Rate (SVR) and their current interest rate between  
September 2017 and March 2019. In addition to the compensation already paid, Mr and 
Mrs G also want  Barclays to pay them and the third party who has been helping  them  
additional compensation.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
I will not repeat all the events which led Mr and Mrs G to complain. There  are several 
reasons for this. The history is set out in detail in the correspondence between  the parties, 
and in the opinion letters written by the investigator. Ive read these and so Im aware of the 
background. Our decisions are published  so its important  that I dont include any information 
in this decision which might identify Mr and Mrs G. So for those reasons, I will refer only 
briefly to whats happened rather than each and every incident which Mr and Mrs G have 
complained about.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs G have a mortgage taken out with Woolwich, Barclays residential 
lending division. The mortgage was taken out on 17 May 2005  over a 25-year term. There  is 
approximately ten years left on the term. The original  advance was £123,395, of which  
£43,000 was on an interest-only basis, with the balance being  on capital and interest 
repayment. There is approximately £100,000  outstanding on the total mortgage  balance, 
which includes arrears of around £5,000. 
From the account history, it seems  Mr and Mrs G have been in financial difficulties since at 
least 2008, when  a possession order was granted in Barclays  favour.  I can see from the 
notes that Mr and Mrs G have had very difficult personal circumstances, including serious  
illness and disability, for a number of years. 
The Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) has been paying  mortgage interest of just 
under £200  every four weeks.  I note that the DWP has over the years  made  mistakes  with 
Mr and Mrs Gs claims  for benefits,  which has had a knock-on effect on the mortgage 
Ref: DRN90196052account. But Mr and Mrs G have also been  unable to meet their contractual payments which  
are not covered by the DWP.
The events leading up to this complaint began in August 2017. Mr and Mrs G wrote  to 
Barclays asking for the mortgage to be put onto a wholly interest-only basis  for a year. 
Barclays asked for further information  and Mr and Mrs G sent Barclays  details of their 
financial position, as well as their health issues, which were severely affecting their day-to-
day life.
After that (summarising), there was detailed correspondence between  Mr and Mrs G and 
Barclays about their circumstances. Barclays didnt think the switch to interest-only  would be 
affordable on the information it had been  given.
Mr and Mrs G found  it very stressful to deal with their situation and wanted a third party to 
help them, for which  a Letter of Authority (LOA) was needed. There were  some problems in 
adding the third party to the account,  even after visits to the branch.
Mr and Mrs G asked about  a rate switch from their existing rate of 5.24%. In March 2019  
Barclays was able to offer a 3-year fixed rate at 1.99%. This reduced the monthly repayment 
from approximately £680 per month to just under £490 per month. 
Mr and Mrs G complained  several  times about the difficulties  they  and the third party   had 
had with Barclays. The bank accepted  its customer service hadnt been good in relation to 
the LOA, which had led to Mrs G having  to make  an unnecessary visit to the branch. In total 
Barclays paid Mrs G compensation of £475  (including £50 to the third party for her 
expenses). But Barclays didnt agree that it hadnt  tried to help Mr and Mrs G, so the 
complaint was brought to us.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that the compensation totalling  £475 which Barclays had paid for its poor customer  service  
was fair and reasonable. She didnt think Barclays was required to do anything  further.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  and provided a detailed response, which the investigator  replied  to. 
She explained that her opinion hadnt changed. 
Because the matter couldnt be resolved by the investigator, the case has been referred to 
me so I can review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The issue  in this complaint is that Mr and 
Mrs G say that Barclays has been unsympathetic to their situation  and has not offered them  
sufficient help and support.  
I would like to begin by acknowledging  the very difficult circumstances Mr and Mrs G have 
told us about in relation, not only to their health, but their struggles with the DWP to sort out 
their benefits. I can see from the case notes  that Mr and Mrs G have  been  through a lot over 
the last ten years. With this in mind, I have found  this a difficult decision to write because, 
after looking  at everything Mr and Mrs G and Barclays have said, Im unable to uphold the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN90196053The starting point  with the mortgage  account is that lenders have  a duty to treat all 
customers, but particularly those facing  financial hardship, fairly.  Balanced  against that, one 
of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the 
right to receive payment of the money  owed  to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML)  also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply  with MCOB, which mirror closely  the requirements  of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways  to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created  the arrears to begin  with is one that looks to be short-term and capable  of being 
resolved, for example  where a borrower can provide  evidence that they are due to return  to 
work within a specified period of time.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways  to help, such transferring  a 
mortgage from capital  and interest  repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders  obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement  is affordable and sustainable. 
Mr and Mrs Gs difficulties are long-term, and so Barclays has to consider, not only how a 
short-term concession might help, but whether  the long-term consequences  of such a 
concession might outweigh the benefits. 
Where a mortgage is put onto interest-only for a short period of time,  this does give the 
borrower a short-term benefit  because their monthly repayments are reduced for the 
concessionary period.  In Mr and Mrs Gs case, they wanted a 12-month  concession so that 
all (rather than just part) of their mortgage was interest-only. But at the end of the period, 
what would  have happened is that the unpaid capital which had accrued over the year would 
need to be repaid, which would mean  the monthly payment would increase.
So not only was the interest-only payment  not affordable for Mr and Mrs G (according to the 
income and expenditure they disclosed), but their position at the end of the twelve-month 
period would have been significantly worse than it was at the start. In the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded Barclays acted unreasonably in declining an interest-only concession.
Im also not persuaded Barclays should have  offered a product switch  to Mr and Mrs G at an 
earlier stage. Switching to a new product  brings  with it a tie-in  to an early  repayment charge 
(ERC).  If Mr and Mrs G found they were  unable to afford a new product and decided to sell 
their property (or if it had been  repossessed), then the ERC  would  increase  their debt 
substantially, putting them in a worse position  than if theyd not taken it out at all. 
Barclays is under a regulatory obligation to make  sure the products it offers  customers dont 
cause the customers  to end up in a worse situation than they were in before. Given  what 
Barclays was told about Mr and Mrs Gs financial position in August  2017, I dont think  the 
bank should have offered them a new product at that time, for those reasons.
In all the circumstances, although I appreciate Mr and Mrs G believe Barclays  should have 
done more to help them, given the very limited  options available and taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Gs situation, I dont think there was anything else Barclays  could have done to 
assist.
Ref: DRN90196054As far as customer service is concerned, Im glad to see Barclays  has acknowledged that 
the service it provided fell short  on several  occasions. Because  the bank has accepted it 
made mistakes, I dont  need to analyse all the interactions between  Barclays, Mr and Mrs G 
and the third party in order to decide where Barclays  has been at fault. What I have to 
decide is whether  the compensation already paid  totalling £475 (including £50 to the third 
party) is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G want  further compensation for poor service,  not just for them  but for the third 
party. But the third party isnt entitled  to compensation  as she is not Barclays  customer  in 
relation to this account. 
Having looked  at what happened  in relation  to the customer service  issues  particularly in 
respect of the difficulties  adding the third party to the account  Im satisfied the 
compensation Barclays has already paid for this of £475 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the mistakes Barclays made.  In the circumstances, Im not going  to order  
Barclays to pay anything  further.
I am glad Mr and Mrs G have the third party to help them,  as I know it is very difficult  for 
them to deal with these matters themselves. I also note that the investigator  has provided 
Mr and Mrs G with details of free debt advice agencies  too. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs G were hoping for. As I said at the start, this has 
been a very hard decision for me to write. But I have had to put aside my natural feelings of 
empathy for Mr and Mrs G and reach a decision based on the evidence. Having done so, Im 
unable to uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9019605