K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Highway  Insurance Company Limiteds decision to cancel his 
motorbike insurance  policy.  
background
Mr M bought  a motorbike  insurance policy through a comparison website via a broker  in 
October 2018. In the same month Highway checked a central  claims database and found 
that Mr M had three claims  he hadnt  told it about  when he bought  the policy. 
The broker  wrote to Mr M on 16 October 2018 and asked him to provide  an explanation 
within the next seven days to prevent his policy from being cancelled. 
The broker  didnt hear from Mr M and so it sent a seven day cancellation notice to him on 
30 October 2018. Mr M called the broker on 4 November 2018. He said he didnt receive the 
brokers letter of 16 October  2018. The broker gave Mr M an email address and asked him 
to confirm by email why he didnt  tell it about his claims history  before the cancellation date 
of 9 November  2018. 
The broker  didnt hear from Mr M so Highway as the insurer cancelled the policy. The insurer 
Highway said if it had known about  Mr Ms claims history it wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
Mr M complained but Highway said its decision  was correct. 
Our investigator thought Highway had acted  reasonably. She found the question Mr M was 
asked about his claims history was clear when he applied for the policy.  And Highway 
provided us with proof that it wouldnt have offered Mr M a policy if hed answered the 
question correctly. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he wasnt aware of one of the claims.  Hes in the process of 
resolving that with his previous insurer. He believes the consequences for him are harsh in 
proportion to the mistake  he made. Mr M said he thought he didnt need to declare the 
claims as they involved  his car and this policy was for his motorbike. Mr M said he wants  the 
cancellation removed  as he isnt able to obtain  alternative insurance. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly. I have taken into 
account the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 - 
CIDRA  in deciding whether Highway has acted reasonably. 
Ref: DRN97572472Mr M bought  the policy through a broker. The broker emailed Mr M his policy documents on 
the day he bought the policy  and these included a Statement of Fact. In the covering letter 
the broker explained the importance of Mr M checking the information hed given was 
correct. If it wasnt,  there was a risk of his insurance policy being cancelled. 
The Statement of Fact recorded the key information Mr M provided  when he applied for the 
policy. It said the following:
Have you had or caused any accidents, claims, losses  or damage in the past 
3 years whether  or not a claim has been made and regardless  of blame?
Mr M answered no. 
Mr M said he thought he didnt need to disclose the claims as they related to his car. But I 
think the question  was clear. 
There were three claims against Mr Ms record between November and December 2017. I 
understand Mr M says he wasnt aware  of one of them. But he didnt tell Highway about any 
of them.  So I think Mr M didnt take enough care when answering this question.  
Insurers provide different  levels  of cover depending  on their appetite for risk. Its not for us to 
comment on an insurers commercial decision as to what  products it wants  to offer on the 
open market.  This is why its important for a customer to answer their questions correctly, so 
that a customer will be able to find a policy that provides  cover  based on true information. 
We can check that an insurers decision to cancel a policy  rather  than offer a policy  with a 
higher premium for example  was a fair decision to make. An insurers underwriting criteria  
is commercially sensitive  information so we cant share  it with customers. But Highway has 
shown us that it wouldnt have offered Mr M a policy if it knew about his claims history.  So 
Im satisfied that Highways decision to cancel Mr Ms policy  was reached reasonably and in 
line with the terms  of the policy.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But from what  Ive seen, I think 
Highway treated Mr M fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
So the cancellation stands.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9757247