K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the service provided by SSE Home Services  Limited following a 
claim on his home emergency insurance policy. 
SSE Home  Services Limited uses agents to deal with claims  on its behalf. For ease of 
reference in this decision whenever  I refer to SSE it should be read as including  anything 
said and done  on its behalf by those  agents.  
background
The boiler in a property rented out by Mr M broke down on 14 December 2018 and he 
contacted SSE. It said its contractor would contact him within four hours  to arrange an 
appointment but apparently there was an error and the claim did not proceed as it should 
have done. No one called  Mr M back  and he had to phone twice  to see what was happening.  
SSE told Mr M that an engineer would  attend  the following afternoon. When  it attended  the 
next day, there was no answer and Mr M had already gone ahead  and got the repairs done 
privately the night  before. His tenants  had a new born baby and so he did not want to wait.  
Mr M says since receiving  the welcome  letter he has never had any contact with SSE,  just its 
agents. SSE is incapable of providing a proper service. He has been trying to get the 
landlords gas safety certificate done  but it has failed to provide one. Mr M wants  the cost of 
the repair, the cost of providing the certificate  (which  this engineer did at the same  time as 
the repairs) and his time in dealing with the matter (around £190 in total)  and the premiums 
he has paid, to be refunded. 
SSE says that it offered  to repair the boiler the day after the claim was made which  is within 
its policy terms. SSE also says it tried to carry out the survey for the certificate a number of 
times; twice Mr M cancelled the appointment and on three  other occasions there was no one 
in when the engineer attended). SSE did offer £20 compensation for the failure to return 
Mr Ms call. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
he thought SSE had still dealt with the claim reasonably overall by offering an appointment 
the next day. The adjudicator explained that we cannot look at any issues with the landlords 
gas certificate, as the agreement to provide a landlords certificate  is not part of the 
insurance cover and so is outside our remit. 
The adjudicator did find that SSEs engineer had attended the wrong property on 
15 December 2018, but did not think this changed  the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr M doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment and so the matter has been passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While SSE would  have sent someone  out the same day the claim was reported that doesnt 
mean it was contracted to do so. The policy provides for attendance to situations such  as 
this (being without  heating  and hot water) as soon as possible.  It is unfortunate there  was a 
Ref: DRN91017212mistake which  stopped this happening  on the day the claim was reported. It offered an 
engineer the next day. Overall this is not unreasonable or a breach of any policy terms. 
Mr M didnt  want  to wait until the next day and got his own engineer.  I do not consider  I can 
reasonably ask SSE to reimburse  this cost, as it was prepared to attend to the repairs within  
a reasonable time of the claim  being made (albeit  not as soon as Mr M wanted).
For the same reasons,  I do not consider that it needs to refund any policy premiums. It 
provided the cover in exchange for that premium.  Mr M wanted the repairs done on the 
same day the claim was made. The fact SSE didnt do this doesnt mean the policy  is in 
effect void and the premiums returned.  
SSE accepts  that Mr M should not have had to phone again to chase what was happening. It 
has apologised and offered £20 compensation for this. It would have been annoying and 
frustrating to have  to chase SSE but we do not normally award an hourly rate for consumers 
time in dealing with an insurance claim,  which will inevitably  involve some time and effort. I 
consider the amount offered to be reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Finally, as explained by the adjudicator, I cant consider any complaint about  the landlords  
safety certificate and so cannot make any award  for the cost of this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against SSE Home Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9101721