K820x#14Complaint
Mr H, in his capacity as director of U, has complained  that Clydesdale Bank Plc closed Us 
business bank  account prematurely and withdrew funds from it without his permission.
Background
Mr H is the managing director of U, a business  that provides services  to customers  seeking 
to obtain a passport.
On 10 October 2014 Clydesdale  wrote  to Mr H informing him that Us account  would be 
closed on 9 December  2014. It cited terms and conditions which  said Clydesdale could close  
the account after providing 60 days notice.
Mr H complained that although the account was not due to close until 9 December  2014,  the 
account had been frozen  which was disrupting his business and causing a loss of earnings. 
He understood  there was an allegation  that the payments were  fraudulent  but he said U had 
performed the services  paid for in full.
Clydesdale issued a final response letter in November 2014  explaining  the decision to close 
the account was in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr H referred  Us complaint to our service in February 2015. He believed  Clydesdale  had 
effectively closed the account immediately  by freezing it from 10 October  2014.  He added 
that Clydesdale had debited sums from the account  without  his permission. He considered 
Clydesdales actions  amounted to a breach of contract.
Following this Mr H was in touch with Clydesdale about accessing the remaining funds in the 
account. In July 2015 a restraint order was issued and the account was frozen for an 
additional 90 days. In October 2015  Clydesdale allowed Mr H to withdraw the remaining 
funds.
On 27 October 2015 Mr H issued a Pre Action  Conduct Letter to Clydesdale  outlining his 
claim that there had been a breach of contract. He said Clydesdale had debited  a total of 
£1,764 from the account without his permission. Mr H said when lodging a complaint about 
these debits hed asked the complaints department for evidence  that these were  fraudulent  
payments but this hadnt been  provided. He maintained the funds legally  belonged  to U; he 
requested they be reimbursed and said damages  should be paid.
Clydesdale provided  its response on 29 February  2016, denying there had been a breach  of 
contract. It said it had received contact from a number  of Us clients  banks (the Payer 
Banks) informing it that their clients had made  payments  to U as reservation fees for 
appointments with the UK Passport  Office (UKPO). However the clients advised they did 
not receive any such appointment and Clydesdale said the UKPO had informed it that they 
didnt accept appointments made  by third parties. For this reason, Clydesdale had decided 
to close the account.  It said it hadnt  closed the account  before the 60 day period had 
expired. It also referred to the Crown  Court making a restraint order  against U on 
9 July 2015. Clydesdale advised  the sums debited were payments it had returned  to the 
Payer Banks. It said it was entitled  to do this as it had received evidence that the payments 
had been induced fraudulently or otherwise unlawfully.
Ref: DRN98189772Mr H got back in touch  with our service  in September 2017 to pursue the complaint.  He 
considered Clydesdale should  refund the sums  debited without his permission and pay U 
damages for the lost earnings  whilst  U was without  a bank  account  (around two weeks).
Our investigator didnt  uphold Us complaint.  He considered the account had been closed 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. The investigator thought it was reasonable for 
Clydesdale to return funds to the Payer Banks in light of the information  provided by the 
UKPO. He didnt  think  it was unreasonable that Clydesdale hadnt given Mr H the 
opportunity to defend the claims.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view. He said the investigators  conclusion wasnt  based 
on evidence as he hadnt seen the indemnity  claims or the details of the appointments made  
for his clients. Mr H still considered it was unfair  that U hadnt been  given an opportunity to 
defend itself against the claims and asked what  rules or regulations  allowed Clydesdale  to 
withdraw funds without his permission. He provided  evidence from the UKPO confirming 
third parties could book  appointments on behalf  of others. Mr H also said the investigator 
hadnt addressed  the issue of the account  being frozen, which effectively meant it had been  
closed immediately.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2019 explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold  the 
complaint. I agreed  with Mr H that Clydesdale had effectively closed his account  immediately 
by freezing it. But I thought it had received enough  evidence to reasonably suspect fraud,  
which entitled it to close the account  immediately under the account  terms and conditions. 
I also explained why I thought it was fair for Clydesdale  to debit sums from Us account to 
return payments to the Payer Banks clients. I said this was in line with Clydesdales 
obligations under  anti-money laundering regulations  and UK legislation  aimed at preventing 
fraud.
Clydesdale accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr H didnt 
accept it and made the following representations:
I hadnt contacted the Payer Banks clients to validate their stories,  so the decision 
was based on one sides story, meaning the basis of the decision was flawed;
the lack of payments made  from Us business  account with another  bank  to the 
UKPO didnt prove anything  Mr H said his employees  wouldve  used  pre-paid debit 
cards or cash to pay the UKPO  for passports; and
I hadnt identified  any law or contract term that allowed Clydesdale to debit the funds 
from Us account.
My Findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im still not upholding it.
As I said in my provisional decision,  there arent  any specific terms expressed in the account 
terms and conditions that allow Clydesdale to debit  funds from Us account without Mr Hs 
permission. But these  arent the only rules  that govern  Clydesdales  banking relationship 
with U  it is also required to deal with the account in line with the relevant law, rules  and 
regulations, as well as good industry  practice.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering 
Ref: DRN98189773Regulations 2017 and the FCA's  financial crime requirements) place extensive obligations 
on regulated financial  businesses to verify customers identity, establish the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship  and the origin of funds.  Businesses  are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship and scrutinise  
transactions to ensure they're consistent with the business' knowledge  of the customer  and 
their expected business patterns.
Mr H has asked me to specify which clauses within these laws and regulations allow  
Clydesdale to debit  the funds from Us account  without his permission. But I dont think  
I need to set these  out in detail. My role is to determine whether Clydesdale acted 
reasonably in returning funds to the Payer  Banks  clients and Im satisfied it did because it 
had reason to believe  they had been  induced  by fraud. For the same  reason, I dont need to 
contact the clients  who made the accusations of fraud. Due to the number of reports 
Clydesdale received and the similarities  between  them, together  with the lack of any sums 
being paid to the UKPO, I think it was reasonable for Clydesdale to close  the account and 
return the funds.
I appreciate that there may have been  a reasonable explanation why neither Clydesdale nor 
R could see any payments made to the UKPO.  But I think that any questions  Clydesdale 
couldve raised with U about this may have prejudiced  any potential fraud investigation. And 
overall, I think Clydesdales  obligation  to prevent fraud took precedence over its obligations  
to U as its customer.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this, but I dont think  Clydesdale  has treated U unfairly.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
U to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9818977