K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs unhappy with what she was told by Admiral Insurance Company Limited when she 
was considering making a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs Bs cars wing mirror  was damaged in an incident with a cyclist. She told Admiral  but 
didnt want to make a claim. Shortly after that there was problem  with a door lock and she 
enquired whether this was incident  related.  She says she specified  she didnt want to go 
ahead with a claim if the door lock wasnt covered. She was later told it was a wear  and tear 
issue pre-dating the incident. As a result Admiral  hasnt agreed to cover its repair.  Mrs B 
says if shed been properly advised  she wouldve  been able to decide not to proceed with 
the claim and wouldnt  have had to pay the £310  policy excess. 
Admiral accepted in its final response that the repairer had been misleading  as to whether 
the central locking  had been repaired or not. What was being repaired  hadnt been made 
clear to Mrs B and it had paid her £50 compensation for this. The door lock fault had 
appeared two months before the incident. Admiral didnt mislead Mrs B about the repair  to 
the central locking  but it was given misleading  information by the repairer. It has also given 
Mrs B another £25 compensation for a delay in paying the £50 compensation.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Shes listened to the call recordings  on 9 June 2018 when Mrs B raised the claim and 
11 June 2018  changing the repairer. Both took place before the works were  
authorised by Admiral  on 13 June  2018.  In these  calls issues about  the door are 
raised but theres no mention that Mrs B only wanted the repairs  to go ahead  if the 
central locking would be fixed.
Mrs B called Admiral on 11 June 2018 because she didnt want  a repairer to 
complete the repairs as it had warned that the central locking wouldnt be covered if it 
was pre-existing.  But this wasnt an unreasonable thing for that repairer to say as the 
policy only covers accident  related damage. 
Another repairer was instructed by Admiral  to prepare an estimate and in the call 
arranging this Mrs B didnt say that fixing the central locking was the only reason she 
would continue with the claim.
She cant therefore say Admiral  should  have known Mrs B wouldnt have gone ahead  
with the claim if she had been  told about  the central locking issue  not being repaired 
under the claim.  It wasnt the only damage reported so it wasnt  unreasonable  or 
unfair for the repairs  to go ahead and for the excess to be payable. She isnt asking 
Admiral to do anything  more.
Mrs B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says she was very 
clear throughout the claim that she wouldnt  have  taken things forward  with Admiral if it 
wasnt for the door lock issue being  dealt  with.
Ref: DRN92361412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says she was very clear throughout the claim  that she wouldnt  have  taken things 
forward with Admiral if it wasnt for the door lock issue. But Im afraid  that isnt born out by 
the two conversations  she had with Admiral on 9 and 11 June 2018.
I have to listened to the two calls and conversations Mrs B had with Admiral.
On the 9 June  2018 Mrs B said, amongst other things,  that she wasnt  sure about the degree 
of damage. Shed  originally seen  damage to a wing mirror. But subsequently shed noticed  a 
scrape on the doors and shed trouble opening  a back door. Admiral told her it could reopen 
her claim and get her car into a garage  for it to take a look.  Mrs B agreed  to this. It also said 
if she was happy  it would  instruct a repairer  and they would get in touch. It said the repair 
estimate would  be prepared and considered by Admirals in house engineers who would  
authorise the repairs and the garage  will start them. It made clear the repairs would be 
started as soon as they were authorised by the engineers. Mrs B was asked if she had any 
other questions but, apart from asking who she should pay the excess  to, she didnt.
On the 11 June 2018 Mrs B spoke to Admiral  again.  She said shed had a call from the 
repairer and was concerned they were  biased. Without seeing the car theyd said some  of 
the issues were pre-existing and wear and tear. Admiral said it would get her car into 
another garage and the advisor spoke to another  garage after putting  Mrs B on hold. Mrs B 
also described in detail the problem  with the door locking and said she was happy to pay the 
excess. The advisor said he had passed on the information shed given him to the new 
garage.
In neither of these  calls did Mrs B say or make clear to Admiral that she only wanted to go 
ahead with the claim or repairs if the door lock issue was dealt with. Admiral  also explained 
in detail in the first of these calls how the estimate  and authorisation procedure  would work 
and said that once authorised by its engineers the garage would  start the repairs. Mrs B 
didnt question this and appears to have understood what she was told.
Overall I dont think I can fairly conclude on balance that Admiral  knew at either  of these 
times that Mrs B had any concerns about  or conditions for proceeding with the claim or 
repairs. And I dont think I can reasonably conclude the repairs  shouldnt  have gone ahead 
or that Admiral shouldve  sought Mrs Bs further  permission for the claim or repairs  to go 
ahead once the work was authorised by the engineers.
Admiral has already paid Mrs B a total of £75 compensation for the repairer misleading her 
and its own delay in paying the original compensation.  I think  thats fair.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Admiral  to do or 
pay anything more  including  refunding  the excess Mrs B paid. And I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN92361413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9236141