K820x#14Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  all the packaged bank accounts she took out with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mrs C took out a fee free current  account  with Lloyds in August 1995.
Mrs C took out a Select Added Value Account  (SAVA) which incurred a monthly fee some  
time before September 2001.
She upgraded to a Platinum Added Value  Account (PAVA) which incurred a monthly fee in 
February 2006.
And she further upgraded to a Premier  Added Value  Account (PRAVA)  which  incurred a 
monthly fee in July 2007.
Mrs C downgraded to a fee free current account  in October 2007.
She then upgraded to a SAVA in December 2007  and further upgraded to a PAVA in 
February 2011.
Mrs C finally  downgraded back to a fee free current account in August 2011.
Lloyds has agreed  that the SAVA was mis-sold  in December  2007 and the PAVA  was mis-
sold in February 2011 and offered to return the fees she paid with appropriate interest.
Lloyds has also agreed that the PAVA  was mis-sold  in February 2006 and offered to return  
the difference between the PAVA fees and the SAVA fees she has paid from February 2006  
to July 2007 when she took out the PRAVA,  with appropriate  interest.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Cs complaint  and decided  that Lloyds response was fair 
and reasonable and the redress it had offered was in line with the amount that this service 
would award.
Mrs C says that she does  not agree and wants a full refund of the all her fees with interest. 
So the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Cs complaint.
In my view, I think Lloyds offer is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
The return  of Mrs Cs SAVA fees from December 2007 and PAVA  fees from February 2011 
is not disputed  by either party so I dont need  to look at this.
I need to consider the sale of the SAVA some  time before  September  2001and the sale of 
the PRAVA in July 2007. And I need  to decide whether Lloyds offer to pay back  the 
Ref: DRN94454912difference in fees between the PAVA  and a SAVA  from February 2006 to July 2007 is fair 
and reasonable or not.
The sale of the SAVA some  time before September 2001.
Ill firstly  look at whether  or not Mrs C was aware  the SAVA was optional  and whether she 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs C was aware that the SAVA  was optional. I say this 
because she had previously had a fee free account  with an overdraft facility  and both Lloyds 
and other  banks and financial  institutions  offered a variety of fee free bank accounts with 
overdrafts which were  widely advertised  in a competitive market.  So if Mrs C hadnt wanted 
the SAVA, I think she would have questioned what she was being offered and sought an 
alternative elsewhere.
Mrs C says that Lloyds told her she had to take out the SAVA to increase her overdraft limit. 
But I think her memory is mistaken  on this point as overdraft limits are set on credit  ratings;  it 
is the cost of the overdraft that varies  by product. So I think  its more likely than not that 
Lloyds didnt say this to her.  
So I think Mrs C was aware she had a choice and chose to take out the SAVA.
Mrs C says Lloyds advised her to take out the SAVA, and Lloyds says it didnt. Im going to 
assume Lloyds did advise her as its to Mrs Cs advantage and doesnt change the outcome 
of my decision. So, Lloyds needed  to provide Mrs C with sufficient information about  it to 
make an informed choice.  And in recommending  the SAVA, it also needed to take adequate 
steps to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mrs Cs circumstances at the time.
A SAVA  sold before September 2001 cost £4 per month and contained a range of benefits 
including car breakdown  cover, payment card protection,  90 day purchase protection and 
extended warranty. And it offered an automatic £50 fee free and interest  free overdraft limit.
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mrs C about the SAVA but I think  it 
was of interest to her. I say this because Lloyds has provided evidence  that in the years  that 
followed she used the car breakdown service several times and she benefitted  from the 
improved overdraft facility  on multiple  occasions.  So I think its more likely than not that Mrs 
C found the benefits of the SAVA attractive and I dont  think  I can reasonably  say that the 
SAVA wasnt suitable for her or that the SAVA  was mis-sold.
The sale of the PAVA in February 2006.
Mrs C had had a SAVA with an overdraft facility  for several years before she took out the 
PAVA. So I think its more  likely  than not that she was familiar by then with the nature of a 
packaged bank  account and what she was paying  a fee for. And I think  her interest in the 
SAVA and its suitability for her hadnt  changed or she wouldnt have been interested in 
discussing the PAVA.
But Lloyds recommended the PAVA  to Mrs C and I agree  with Lloyds that it hasnt been  able 
to provide sufficient  evidence  that the PAVA with its extra cost of £15 per month  was suitable 
for her in July 2006.
Ref: DRN94454913So in my view, Lloyds shouldnt have sold Mrs C the PAVA but I think its more  likely than not 
that she would have carried on the SAVA  if it hadnt. So I think  Lloyds offer to pay Mrs C the 
difference between  the PAVA  and SAVA monthly  fees from February 2006 to July 2007 is 
fair and reasonable and I dont agree with Mrs C that Lloyds should return  all the PAVA fees.
The sale of the PRAVA in July 2007.
The PRAVA in July 2007 cost £25 per month and contained a range of benefits including  
worldwide travel insurance, full AA car breakdown cover, mobile  phone  insurance, sentinel 
card protection, and home  emergency  cover. And it offered an automatic  £500 fee free and 
interest free overdraft  limit with preferential rates  for overdrafts over the limit.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of its assessment of Mrs Cs needs and circumstances, which it 
did with her and she has signed, and which records her understanding  and interest in the 
PRAVA. The record shows  her having a particular  interest in the home emergency cover 
benefit which was only available with the PRAVA. And Lloyds has provided evidence  that 
she travelled soon after taking the PRAVA  out and used the AA breakdown service. So, I 
think Mrs C found elements of the product attractive  and I dont think  Lloyds did anything 
wrong in selling it to her.
I do note that she changed  her mind and downgraded the account three months  later, but it 
was her right to do this, and this doesnt of itself make the PRAVA  sale wrong.
Financial hardship
I also note that Mrs C has said that Lloyds packaged bank account sales were wrong 
because she was experiencing  financial hardship  throughout this period. Ive read what she 
has said about her circumstances and family responsibilities. Ive taken  this into account  but 
I cant see that she has told Lloyds  about,  or Lloyds would have been  aware  of, any 
circumstances that should  have changed  what it did. So I cant  uphold her complaint on this 
point. 
Summary 
In summary,  I think that Lloyds response to Mrs Cs complaint has been  fair and reasonable 
and I dont agree that she should  be awarded anything  further  than the redress Lloyds has 
offered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9445491