K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank plc (trading under its Barclaycard brand) wont refund a
number of transactions made using his credit card in May 2017.
background
Between 5 and 22 May 2017  Mr Ms Barclaycard was used  to make 15 transactions,  all of 
them in France.  Mr M said he wasnt in France at the time, but in the UK. The transactions 
were, he says, carried out without his consent. In addition, there  were  two unsuccessful  
attempts to make cash machine withdrawals. 
One of the transactions  was refunded  by one of the merchants, and the total sum in dispute  
after that refund is a little over £3,300. 
Barclaycard didnt accept  that Mr M hadnt  authorised the transactions and refused to 
provide a refund. He referred  the case to this service. One of our adjudicators indicated that 
he thought Barclaycard should refund the disputed  transactions, but the bank didnt  agree, 
so the case was passed to me to review. I issued a provisional decision, indicating  that I was 
minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the adjudicator.
Whilst I accepted that Mr M was, as he says, in the UK when some or all of the transactions 
were carried  out, I thought  it likely  that he had allowed someone else to use his card to make  
them. I noted, amongst  other things:
The genuine card had been used with the correct  PIN, but it wasnt clear how anyone 
else had obtained them.
I thought it unlikely that someone would have  taken  Mr Ms card and then travelled to 
France before trying  to use it.
It was unlikely  too that a fraudster would have  returned goods  and sought a refund. 
When Mr M first reported the disputed transactions, he said he still had the card. 
There was a gap of two weeks in the use of the card, which I didnt  think  was indicative 
of fraud.  
The text of my findings is set out below.
I agree  with the adjudicators finding that the correct PIN was used with the genuine 
card (rather  than a copy or clone of it) to make the disputed transactions in France. 
That is of course consistent with what  Mr M has said.
I also agree  that Mr M probably didnt make  the transactions  himself.  Barclaycard has
suggested that Mr M could have  travelled  between  London and Paris while the 
transactions were  taking  place, but I think thats  unlikely to be the full explanation.  It 
would have been possible for him to be present for some of the transactions, but 
probably not for all of them.
However, I disagree with the adjudicators conclusions about the likelihood that 
someone had Mr Ms card with his consent. On balance,  I think  its likely that whoever 
carried out the transactions was able to do so because Mr M had let them have his 
credit card.
Ref: DRN90621082Mr M hasnt  identified any specific  occasion when someone could have taken his card 
and PIN without him knowing. He suggested  he kept the PIN notification hed received 
some three months earlier in a notebook, but hasnt suggested that anything else was 
taken from him.
When he completed Barclaycards fraud  declaration he said that he still had the card. 
He later explained that he said that because, when he completed the form, he did have 
the card connected  with the account  but that was the replacement  that Barclaycard 
sent. The form asked:  Please confirm if the card was lost/stolen, not received, or still in 
your possession That question can only have referred to the card that had been 
used to make the disputed transactions. I dont accept that Mr M thought Barclaycard 
was asking about the card hed received to replace it. It had no reason to do so, and 
Mr M would have understood that the presence of the replacement card wasnt  relevant 
to the banks enquiries about what had happened in May 2017.
Further, when Mr M initially  reported  the disputed transactions  by telephone, he 
appeared to read the account number from the card itself. He says he wasnt living at 
the registered address for the account  at the time, and was unsure of the date hed last 
used the card. That indicates that he didnt have account statements with him, so 
wouldnt have used  them  to get the card number. And when the adviser  suggested he 
destroy the card, he didnt say that he no longer had it. There  are therefore  clear 
indications that he was in possession of the card after the disputed transactions.  Thats 
not consistent with it having been used by someone  unknown to him, or even  someone  
known to him having it without his consent.
I note as well that one of the transactions in France was refunded  by the merchant.  It
appears that goods were returned. That isnt in my view something that an unknown
fraudster would do, running the risk of detection  and, in effect,  returning  money  theyd 
stolen.
Mr M says, and I accept, that he hadnt travelled to France for some  time before the 
disputed transactions.  He had been  in Spain the previous month,  but believes his card 
was taken from him while he was in London. Its most unlikely however that someone 
who took his card and PIN without his authority would have travelled from either 
England or Spain to France  before  trying  to use it.
I dont place a great  deal of weight on the pattern  of transactions in this case. I do 
however note that there was a gap of two weeks between transactions  carried out in 
France. I think it unlikely  that a fraudster who had the card without  Mr Ms knowledge 
would have stopped using  or trying to use the card for that long.
For these reasons, my provisional conclusion is that its more  likely than not that Mr M 
let someone else have his card and told them the PIN. In the circumstances, it wouldnt 
be fair to require Barclaycard to reimburse him.
Barclaycard had nothing to add, but Mr M didnt  accept  my provisional  findings. He explained 
that hed been able to provide  his card details when  he spoke to Barclaycard  because he 
kept a copy of all his card details to use for online transactions  when necessary. He also 
said that I hadnt identified who had used  his card.
Ref: DRN90621083my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
view from that set out in my provisional  decision.  
I note what Mr M says about keeping a copy of his card details. That seems  to me to be a 
rather unusual arrangement, since it would usually be much  easier  to take those details from 
the card itself. Be that as it may, Mr M said when reporting the transactions that he still had 
his card.  I believe that he did, because he had let someone use it and it had been  returned 
to him.
Its not for me to say who was using the card. As Ive indicated,  I dont believe it was Mr M; 
but its sufficient that it was someone who had it with his consent and  for the reasons Ive 
explained  I believe it was. 
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  believe it 
would be fair to require  Barclaycard to refund the disputed  transactions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 28 November  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062108