K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Ald Automotive Limited  have acted unfairly in charging  him to repair 
damage to his hire car.
background
Mr D hired a car from Ald Automotive Limited. Its records  show that his contract was due to 
come to an end in September 2017. But by mutual agreement he kept the car for a few 
further months and did not return the car until January 2018. Mr D was charged for this 
additional use of the car but he has not complained to us about  these charges.
Rather on returning the car it seems  Mr D knew he would be charged for any damage that 
was more than wear and tear. He agreed there was what  he thought was a minor  chip on the 
windscreen which he expected he might be charged  for. Although  he thought  any charge for 
this ought to be reasonable. He was aware of a few scratches. But he thought  they were 
cosmetic scratches so small  and slight  that he thought hed not be charged  for them.  This 
is because they constituted fair wear and tear, to his mind.  
Further when he returned the car, although it was inspected, nothing was said about the 
state of the car or that the business would be charging him. Given  all of this, it was a most 
unpleasant surprise  to find afterwards, and quite  out of the blue, from his perspective  that 
Ald Automotive Limited was intending  not just to charge him for the damage but to charge  
him so much. 
When Mr D found out what  Ald Automotive Limited wanted to do he objected.  He also 
wanted the chance to take his own photos  as he didnt agree that its photos were  accurate. 
But he was told this wasnt possible. 
He was then subsequently contacted by solicitors  acting for the business. The solicitors were 
chasing him to pay for both the extra hire charges and for the repairs.  Mr D suggested this 
approach was not appropriate. He also indicated that his personal circumstances have 
changed and at his time of life he didnt  want  the upset of it all. 
He told us he had been offered £90 off the bill as a goodwill gesture but it seemed he didnt 
think this went far enough.  He also let us know that he was used to hiring cars but had never 
come across  such behaviour before. Mr D said this had not been the only car hed used  at 
the time so it wasnt as if the car was being  used all the time. He pointed out hed never 
signed anything  that showed  there  had been  damage to the car. On that basis  he wanted to 
know how what appeared to be his signature,  came to be on the collection report which 
noted the damages. Mr D also questioned  why the work was done  and the car sold on whilst 
this dispute was ongoing.
Ald Automotive Limited on the other hand,  suggested it had done nothing  wrong. It said the 
damage went beyond  wear and tear. It said this meant  it was entitled to charge  for this under 
the relevant terms  and conditions and it had done so. It hadnt  been able to do its full 
inspection when Mr D handed  over the car. This was done later which is why he only found 
out after he dropped off the car that the repairs needed to be done.
It explained why it hadnt been  possible for Mr D to come and inspect the car after he 
handed it in. This was because at that point the remedial work had already been done. It 
also explained its charging structure.  In particular it told us it charges customers based on its 
Ref: DRN91275192own pricing  matrix.  Using this matrix it had charged Mr D around  £900 to repair the 
damage. But in fact due to the nature  of the repairs and who did them in this instance the 
actual cost of the repairs  to it was less than it was charging Mr D. It paid around £680 to 
have the repairs  done including to replace  a mat.
The parties had reached a stalemate  so Mr D came  to us. We looked at his complaint. 
Our investigator was satisfied that the terms of the agreement, which  both Mr D and Ald 
Automotive Limited had signed up to, meant it could charge him for damage that went 
beyond wear and tear. Looking at the information she had our investigator thought that 
threshold had been  reached. But she also thought it was correct  to only charge him for the 
costs it had run up and not the higher charge. She also said it couldnt  charge him for the 
replacement mat as he wasnt originally charged for this. That meant it could only charge 
him £662.
Neither party accepted our investigators  view.
In summary,  Ald Automotive Limited reiterated that it charged its customers  in line with its 
pricing matrix. It does this to achieve  what it thinks is a fair and consistent approach. It 
agreed what it was charging  Mr D was not the amount it had to pay out for the repairs. But 
that said it did not see why the customer should  have  the benefit  of the cheaper rates  when 
he ought to have had the repairs done  himself before the vehicle  was returned. 
Further, it thought  talking about  actual  costs was misleading in the circumstances. It 
suggested the view from us here, was inconsistent with past decisions made  by this Service.  
It also wanted to know  if the boot was on the other foot, that is, if the actual repairs cost 
more than the pricing matrix  costs would we think it OK for it to charge the higher price.
It also added  that our resolution was unrealistic in light of its business model. It has a vast 
volume of cars returned to it on a daily basis. It only has 30 days to charge a customer and 
that is not always sufficient time to do a full defleet  process before the invoice is raised.
It asked for an ombudsmans decision on the basis that this would be the wise thing to do 
here.
Mr D also rejected our investigators view.  In essence, he still suggested that the damage 
was not so severe that it could fairly be said to be more than wear and tear. He also 
suggested the damage had been exaggerated  in order to make  money. On that basis he 
didnt think the charges  ought to stand.  Further  he remained upset by the signature on the 
document he said he had not signed. He thought this might  be a criminal  offence and he 
repeated he wanted us to look into this point.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D has very strong feelings  about  this complaint. I can well understand why. 
From his perspective there was nothing really  wrong with the car when he returned it, aside 
from the chip on the windscreen.  
Further, he has been asked to pay a large  bill which he thinks  is unjustified.  As far as he is 
concerned, no one warned him the bill was coming  or even possible.  Then  he finds  his 
Ref: DRN91275193signature on a document he suggests  he knew nothing about. All in all I get the impression 
he thinks he is being done over and its easy to see why any reasonable person would be 
upset by that.
On the other hand Ald Automotive  Limited  is running  a big commercial  operation.  It has 
taken a commercial decision about how to charge its customers  and in doing so has clearly 
thought long and hard about  how best to do that in a way that it thinks is fair to all of its 
customers. Not only does it think it has charged Mr D correctly.  It also seems  to think  we are 
not taking proper account of its business  model and asking it to take unrealistic actions.
 is it fair and reasonable to say that the car was damaged?
Where there is a dispute about what happened, as is the case  here,  I have based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In other  words, on what  I consider is most likely  to 
have happened  in the light of the evidence.
That said there is no dispute that the agreement between Mr D and Ald Automotive Limited 
allows it to charge him for damage in certain  circumstances. I dont  see why Ald Automotive 
Limited ought not to be able to rely on what the contract  says.  Mr D and it both agreed to be 
bound by the contract when they entered into it.
The contract sets out that Mr D has to pay Ald Automotive Limited  for repairs that go beyond  
fair wear and tear. The definition of what is fair wear and tear is documented in the industry 
guidance, the BVRLA guidance mentioned in the contract.  This guidance is relevant to cars 
that were new at the time of the contact. It seems  that was the case  here. Given all of this it 
seems fair to assess  the damage  in line with the recommendations in that guidance. 
The first questions for me to look at are what was the extent of the damage? And was this 
more than fair wear  and tear?
Ald Automotive Limited has supplied  us with pictures of the damage.  I recognise that Mr D 
suggests the pictures have been manipulated to make  the damage seem  worse than it was 
in reality. He suggests this was done  in order to justify trumped up charges. But I dont 
agree. The pictures  are close ups, as you might  expect. But I think  this close  up perspective  
was used to record  the fine detail not to exaggerate the damage in order  to make a demand 
for unreasonable charges.
Having considered the extent of the damage  and what is considered  to be fair wear and tear 
Im satisfied that the damage exceeded fair wear  and tear. 
I recognise that it must  have been  very galling for Mr D that he was not able to take his own 
photos. But there is nothing that I have seen that persuades me Ald Automotive Limited had 
not already done the work by the time Mr D asked to inspect the car. I find it likely  that it 
would have moved things on at pace,  as this is how it makes  money.  Neither was it obliged  
to put things on hold with the repair and the sale of the car while this dispute  was ongoing. 
Although I realise  that Mr D may find all that rather disappointing and surprising.
So for the reasons I have gone  through above  Im satisfied that the damage was there and it 
did go beyond wear  and tear.
how much  should  Mr D have to pay for the repairs?
Ref: DRN91275194However, it does not follow that in the individual circumstances of this case, I think it is fair 
and reasonable for Ald Automotive  Limited  to charge Mr D for the work  using  its pricing 
matrix prices.
I say this because  both the contract  and the BVRLA guidance are very clear about  the 
purpose of the charges. The contract  says:
The Customer will pay all sums necessary to restore  the Vehicle to a roadworthy condition.
The guidance says:
The charges compensate the Leasing  Company  for the cost of rectifying damage.
I take this to mean Ald Automotive  should only charge its customer  Mr D what it had to 
spend to sort the car out that is to get it back to the required standard.  That didnt cost it over 
£900.
Im not criticising the pricing matrix. Nor am I suggesting how Ald Automotive  Limited  needs  
to treat all future customers. I take on board  it gets to decide how it operates  generally. Im 
merely saying that when  I read the words of the contract it wrote  and the guidance it relies 
on, in the individual  circumstances of this case,  fairly  and reasonably,   it should  only be 
charging Mr D what  it had to pay. It seems  it has already agreed not to charge him for the 
mat so it should only be charging him £662.
I think it is irrelevant that Mr D could have got the damage repaired himself.  He didnt and he 
didnt think he needed to. Neither do I think it is relevant that Mr D is benefitting from the 
discounts Ald Automotive Limited negotiated with the repairers. Because  all it seems it is 
entitled to charge is what it paid as I said above.
It follows, I dont need  to answer  Ald Automotive  Limiteds hypothetical question about the 
hypothetical customer who couldve been charged  more because that isnt the point here.
criminal matters
I cant say how or why Mr Ds signature got on that document. It is a curious  matter.  I get 
why Mr D is displeased. But I have  no power  to deal with criminal matters  so I cant give Mr 
D what he asks for on this point.
But Ive already said why I think Ald Automotive Limited is entitled to ask him to pay 
something for the repairs and I dont think the signature issue  should  prevent it from doing 
so.
hire charges
As I have already  said Mr D didnt  complain about  the additional hire charges. So I have not 
made any findings about them or looked at this point. If he thinks he should not have to pay 
them then he needs to speak to Ald Automotive  Limited about them. Only once it has had a 
chance to give him its view might he be able to raise a fresh  new complaint about that point.
I would add though Ald Automotive Limited  needs to listen to its customer  Mr D. It seems  his 
circumstances have  changed. He may now be struggling financially. I remind it that it has 
Ref: DRN91275195duties towards customers who are experiencing financial difficulties. Although  I have not 
specifically looked  at this point as part of this complaint.
Mr D needs to be aware too that nothing in this decision prevents Ald Automotive Limited 
from asking him to pay the hire fees for the additional time that he had the car.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that Ald Automotive  Limited  can only ask Mr D to pay £662  in relation to 
the repairs. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9127519