K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which was taken out in 1997 when Mrs H 
applied for a mortgage in one of the societys branches. The policy covered her for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs H didnt agree. 
She replied, in detail, to say, in summary,  that:
Her parents  were  in a position to buy the property for her; and that remains  the position  
today.
Nationwide didnt provide any evidence to show that it didnt  recommend  the policy and 
it hasnt provided  a copy of the original application  form.
She signed the forms for her mortgage but she simply signed  where  she was told to  
she didnt know shed signed  for the PPI.
She didnt  need the policy  because of the generous sick pay she wouldve received  
and she wouldnt have needed  any income on top of this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Nationwide doesnt  have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago. And Mrs H cant remember any discussion about PPI. This, again,  isnt surprising 
 I wouldnt expect her to remember what happened  more  than 20 years ago. In cases  like 
this, I reach my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Nationwide probably  explained to Mrs H why she should consider applying for a PPI policy.  
But I havent seen  evidence to persuade me that Nationwide  gave a personal 
recommendation to Mrs H that, in her particular circumstances, she should take the policy. 
The mortgage application form includes the wording We strongly recommend that you 
protect your monthly payments against sickness, accident and unemployment.  But this 
doesnt amount  to a personal  recommendation aimed at Mrs H. I cant  conclude  that 
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mrs H, so it didnt  need to check that it was suitable 
for her. 
Ref: DRN95805192So the key question I need  to consider  is did Nationwide give Mrs H information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where  she could decide for 
herself whether  the policy would be useful. And, if there was a problem with the way the 
policy was sold, then I need to consider whether Mrs H is worse off as a result. That is, 
would she have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt 
been any problems  with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint and will explain why.
The mortgage application included a separate section headed, Unemployment, Accident 
and Sickness Protection.  There were equally clear options to accept  or decline the PPI and 
the Yes  box has been ticked  to show that Mrs H wanted it. Its likely the application form 
was completed by the member of staff.  But Mrs H wouldve had to give her consent for this 
box to be ticked.  And I can see from the handwritten notes on the form that Mrs H had asked  
for a policy that covered her mortgage  repayment,  plus £50 added  cover and that shed 
asked for 24 months  benefit. So it seems a discussion about PPI did take place. Although  its 
no longer available, Mrs H wouldve also had to complete and sign a PPI application  form. 
So, overall, I think Nationwide made  Mrs H aware that PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it out. 
Its possible the information the society gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think she would have  been put off taking out the policy if she 
had received better information. I say this because:
Mrs H was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances  and the terms and conditions. 
She wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. Mrs 
H was employed  on an annually  renewable contract, but this didnt make it any more  
difficult to make  a claim.  As she couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I 
think it unlikely she needed better  information about  the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
Although Mrs H was employed on an annual contract basis,  she recalls she wouldve 
received generous sick pay of at least six months full pay. But the policy  wouldve paid 
out for up to 24 months  if Mrs H couldnt  work due to sickness  or an accident and it 
covered her if shed become unemployed. The mortgage was a major long term 
financial commitment and her home  was at risk if she couldnt  meet  the repayments. So 
I think its likely  that, despite what she now recalls, she wanted some  additional  cover  if 
she couldnt work.
Ive taken  into consideration  what Mrs H told us about the support her parents had 
offered her. She said they offered to buy the house for her. But Mrs H decided  to buy 
the house using a mortgage. So, although  she says her parents remained able to buy 
the house for her during the lifetime  of the mortgage, it seems to me that she decided  
she wanted some  protection if she couldnt meet the repayments, rather  than having  to 
rely on her parents.
Ref: DRN95805193The cost of the policy  was set out in the mortgage offer. But this was on page  four of a 
fairly detailed document so I dont think it wouldve been particularly clear to Mrs H that 
shed need to pay £13.23  each  month  until after shed applied  for the PPI. So Ive 
considered whether clearer  information about  the cost would have affected her decision 
to purchase the policy. She chose to take out the policy knowing she would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and a relatively small cost in 
relation to her mortgage.  So I think it unlikely she would have made a different decision 
if better  information about the cost had been provided.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs H lost out because of anything  Nationwide  did wrong,  because  
I dont think better information  would have put Mrs H off taking out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9580519