K821x#15complaint
Miss W complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited  wrongly cancelled  her motor
insurance policy.
background
Hastings cancelled Miss Ws motor  policy because she hadnt paid all the premium 
instalments. But Miss W said she was up to date with her payments. She was unhappy 
about the cancellation and not getting  her no claims discount (NCD).
The investigator recommended  that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that
Hastings hadnt  dealt with the complaint  fairly.  Hastings did then make Miss W an offer
which the investigator considered fair and reasonable.
Miss W didnt agree,  and I was asked to decide. On 6 July 2020  I issued  my provisional 
decision saying that I intended to uphold  her complaint. Since  then Miss W has said she has 
no further comment, and Hastings  have  accepted  my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W took out the policy in December 2017  and was paying the premium by instalments.
On 24 July Hastings  thought that she had an outstanding balance, so they emailed her
saying theyd cancel  her policy if she didnt pay a certain amount by the next day. Miss W
phoned them challenging this. She felt they were wrong  about  this and she asked  them to
listen back to their previous calls when, she said, Hastings had promised to remove the
outstanding balance. When Hastings did that, they realised that those  calls concerned  an
earlier different instalment, and so she was still behind on the payments  and still had an
outstanding balance. Hastings tried unsuccessfully  to phone her back  about this. But despite
being unable  to contact her that way, Hastings  then cancelled  her policy  on 26 July 2018,
with effect from 25 July 2018.
Miss W complained to Hastings, saying  that she was up to date with her payments. Hastings
didnt agree with that, but they accepted that they hadnt given Miss W good  service  and
they paid her £75 in compensation for this.
But they couldnt have her policy reinstated because the insurer  wouldnt allow it. So they
also offered her a reduction of £150 on what they said was the outstanding policy  balance,
but she would still owe £166.38. Miss W didnt agree.
The investigator thought that Hastings had been too quick  to cancel and hadnt done enough
beforehand to alert Miss W to the risk theyd cancel.  It wasnt  enough  for them  to just try to
telephone her and they should  have emailed  her before sending the cancellation  notice on
24 July 2018.This  was particularly so since theyd just been in discussion with her about her
premium payments, and when theyd previously emailed her, shed responded. The
investigator though  that they should  have emailed her or alternatively they should have
extended the cancellation notice period  to give her at least  7 days  notice of cancellation.  We
expect insurers to do that to give consumers time to make a payment and avoid cancellation,
or to allow them time to obtain new insurance.
Ref: DRN96127702I agreed with the investigators view here.  I thought that Hastings were too quick  to cancel,  
and this wasnt fair or reasonable. Hastings accepted the investigators  view and changed  
their offer. They offered to waive the policy cancellation fee (of £45) theyd charged Miss W, 
and to pay the remaining balance of £121.38 to the insurer  themselves, which  would mean 
she wouldnt  have anything else to pay. But Miss W still said shed been up to date with her
payments.
Hastings have investigated their records to reconcile  the payments, and our investigator has
set out in-depth  analyses in her opinions  of what Miss W paid in relation to what  Hastings
think she paid. So both Miss W and Hastings have seen that and I wont set it out again
here.
I saw that Miss W had been  making  payments on her policy, but these  werent necessarily at
the dates Hastings required, and at least one of them  was paid by her partner. I thought this
meant that it was harder  to keep track of what shed paid in relation to what  she owed from
moment to moment. However  in responding to Miss Ws complaint,  Hastings  have
investigated all the payments on the policy. They found that although Miss W had made
some payments, some of these had been returned  to her bank and so they said that she did
still have a balance  of £121.38 outstanding at cancellation.
Hastings also wanted Miss W to provide hard copy printouts of her bank  statements,
stamped by her bank,  because they said that her online  statements could be filtered and
edited and so werent reliable. Miss W didnt agree to provide these as she felt shed done
enough to prove her case. But she did later give us about 50 pages  of screenshots from her
online bank  account  over the several months  before cancellation,  and also a copy of her
partners bank statement. His statement shows payment  of one instalment and theres
nothing to suggest that it was returned,  so I thought  that it was paid to Hastings.
However the copy screenshots of Miss Ws online  bank account do show that several of her
payments to Hastings were in fact returned  so hadnt been  paid.  And so, even taking
into account and including  the payment her partner made, I thought  this supports Hastingss
view that Miss W was not fully up to date with her payments  at cancellation.  Overall  it is up
to Miss W to prove that she was up to date but, on the information shes given us, I didnt
think that she has done that. And so I thought that Hastings  offer was reasonable.
Hastings are willing to pay to the insurer  £121.38, which they say is the amount Miss W still
owes the insurer, so that Miss W does  not owe any more under the policy. I think thats fair
of them,  and they should ensure that she is not left with anything owed to the insurer. They
have also offered to waive their cancellation  fee of £45. 
And, subject  to her sending them the policy documentation for the policy  shed had to take 
out with a different insurer, theyve also offered to pay her the difference  in premiums  
between that new policy and Hastingss policy, from the start of the new policy until the date 
her Hastings policy was due to end,14 December 2018. As regards her NCD, she had been 
with Hastings for only about half year when they cancelled the policy  and so although  I can 
see that she feels she lost that time which could have gone towards an NCD, it is less than 
a year and I thought what Hastings have offered overall did fairly resolve the financial impact  
of her complaint for her. She thinks that Hastings actions gave her a bad credit score, but Id 
not seen anything to suggest  that their actions have caused that. I did see that the situation 
was stressful for Miss W, but I thought  that what Hastings offered was fair.
Ref: DRN96127703However, because  Miss W will be required to disclose to future  insurers  that shes had a
policy cancelled, I thought it only fair that Hastings also remove any record of the 
cancellation of her policy from internal and external insurance databases and give Miss W a 
letter saying that they cancelled this policy in error  which  she can give to future insurers  to 
show that it was not her fault.
As Hastings  have accepted my provisional  decision, and Miss W has no other comment, I 
maintain my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited  to:
Waive their cancellation fee of £45, and pay to the insurer  the outstanding balance
on Miss Ws policy of £121.38 (or whatever the outstanding balance may be) so that 
she owes nothing more  to the insurer
Pay Miss W the difference in premiums between the new insurers policy and her 
policy with Hastings  from the start of the new policy until the date her Hastings policy 
was due to end, 14 December 2018. This is subject to her sending them the policy
documentation for the policy shed  had to take out with a different insurer,
Remove any record of the cancellation  of her policy from internal and external
insurance databases
Give her a letter saying that Hastings cancelled her policy  in error, which she can
give to future  insurers.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.  
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612770