K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Curtis Banks Limited  has applied a £100 per year unadvised client  
fee to the Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  he holds with them.
background
In 2018 Mr S contacted Curtis Banks  to make  a withdrawal from his SIPP. In the process of 
this it was discovered that Curtis  Banks  systems  had Mr S investment  manager incorrectly  
recorded as his Financial Adviser. And had been sending  correspondence to Mr S 
investment manager.
Curtis Banks then let Mr S know that because he didnt have a Financial Adviser attached  to 
his account, unless he added a new one, he would be charged a £100 per year fee as an 
unadvised client.
Mr S was very unhappy  with this and asked  for an explanation and for Curtis Banks  to detail 
its fees, as he didnt remember ever seeing  anything about this charge.
Curtis Banks explained that it had sent out a mail merge to all its clients  in 2016 to explain 
some changes to its terms & conditions  and the fees that would be applied  to accounts. 
Within this letter it explained that going forward unadvised clients  would be charged  £100. It 
said that this was because clients had expressed a wish for additional information and it had 
a regulatory obligation for it to make sure its clients were kept informed. So it would be 
providing a service which included investment monitoring and regular updates  to its 
unadvised clients.
The mail merge also explained  that if anyone didnt agree  to these changes it would allow a 
three month window where clients could transfer to other providers without an exit charge.
Our investigator looked into this and was of the opinion that Mr S wouldnt have received this 
mail merge. Curtis Banks didnt  have  any evidence of sending  the letter  nor an exact copy 
but it provided the template that was used. However,  the investigator pointed  out that the 
letter was specific to unadvised clients and that at the time the letter  was sent,  Curtis  Banks  
had erroneously recorded Mr S as having a financial adviser. So she didnt think  Mr S 
wouldve received  this letter. And so hadnt  had the opportunity to transfer out for free.
Curtis Banks responded  to say they believed the letter had been sent to all its clients  and 
didnt agree that Mr S wouldnt have received it. It then also provided a letter to support its 
view. This was from the same time period  and addressed to Mr S. However, the investigator  
pointed out that this was for advised clients and didnt have the unadvised client  fee set out 
in this letter. So the investigator was now even more confident in her view that Mr S wasnt 
informed of the unadvised client fee.
The investigator also said that she didnt think the fee itself was unfair  but that Mr S 
shouldve been  given the opportunity to transfer out and therefore having the opportunity  to 
avoid this fee.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view either, he feels that the unadvised client fee is 
fundamentally unfair and as a matter  of principle doesnt want to pay it. Hes said he doesnt 
need a financial  adviser as he has people  who can help him and access to information 
online. Hes said he isnt interested  in transferring out and wants  to contest the unfair fee.
Ref: DRN90982362As there wasnt agreement from either party, the case  has been passed to an ombudsman  
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
The evidence clearly  points to that fact that Mr S likely wouldnt have received the correct 
letter for his circumstances back in 2016. There is no dispute that Mr S had a financial 
adviser incorrectly recorded on his account.  Curtis  Banks have  shown us that there were two 
different letters, one tailored to its advised clients, the other to its unadvised  clients.  And its 
also provided an addressed letter that it seems it did send to Mr S. This was the advised  
client letter,  which  as youd expect  made  no reference of the unadvised client fee.
So I dont  think Mr S has been treated fairly  here. He wasnt given notice of the opportunity 
to transfer away for free that he ought to have been  given had Curtis Banks records  been 
correct. So I think this opportunity should  now be provided to Mr S.
However, Mr S has made clear this isnt what he wants, he wants the fee to be waived. Hes 
explained that he doesnt think the fee is fair, hes questioned the value of the extra  service  
provided and hes said he doesnt need a financial adviser. 
Ive considered whether what Curtis  Banks has done is fair in adding this additional  charge. 
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions of the SIPP that its provided, its clear that its 
terms do allow for changes to made. The terms say:
25  Variation and termination
25.2      We may amend  these terms by written notice to you for any of the following  reasons:

e.   to provide for the introduction of new or improved systems, methods of operation,  
services or facilities associated with providing the SIPP;

25.3      Where these terms are to be amended we will give you as much notice as is 
reasonably possible in the circumstances, which will generally be at least 30 days written 
notice.

25.4      If the change  we make under Paragraph 25.2(g) has a significant  unfavourable 
effect on your rights under your SIPP and you do not accept the changes,  we will waive  our 
transfer out fees provided you return a completed discharge form within 3 months of 
receiving notice of the amended term. You will be responsible for any other  costs.
So what  Curtis Banks has done  is explicitly  allowed for in its terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN90982363So in terms of the changes  Curtis Banks made in 2016, its terms and conditions  allow  for it 
and in any event  I dont  think what its done is unfair or unreasonable.  Customers were given 
the choice to stay with Curtis Banks or leave  to find an alternative provider without penalty.
In Mr S particular situation  though I dont think he was treated fairly because of the incorrect 
information held on his account.  And whilst hes said its not what  hes looking for, in the 
interests of fairness  and to put things right, Curtis  Banks needs to give Mr S this option again  
but this time hell now be aware of it.
From what Mr S has told our investigator  it seems unlikely he will take up the opportunity  to 
transfer. But if he does Id expect Curtis  Banks if its already charged him the unadvised 
client fee, to refund this and rebalance his account accordingly before transfer.
my final decision
In part I uphold Mr S complaint against  Curtis Banks Limited. It should put things right as 
explained below.
Curtis Banks Limited  should give Mr S notice of a three month  period in which  he can 
transfer to another provider without incurring a penalty. This should mirror the opportunity  it 
provided its clients in 2016.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9098236