K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his travel  insurance claim 
and about how it handled his complaint.
Mr T will note that my decision  is about a business  with a slightly different name to the 
business referred to by our investigator. Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited is the correct 
business for my decision to be about  and it agrees that it is the correct business. The 
change hasnt affected the outcome of my decision.
background
Mr T and his family were  on holiday  on an island  that was hit by a tornado.  There was a 
power outage  across  most of the island affecting facilities.  Mr T wasnt able to phone Admiral  
to ask what he could  do.
Mr T says the villa representative told him they must leave the villa for safety reasons. The 
villa representative moved Mr T and his family to alternative accommodation, in a hotel. That 
accommodation didnt  meet  Mr Ts familys requirements for several reasons, which  hes 
detailed.
Mr T checked the weather forecast which showed further bad weather when they were  due 
to fly home. He says he tried to reschedule the original return flights but couldnt. He wanted 
to book a return  flight to the airport  where his car was parked but the cost was £7,000. To 
minimise the costs  he booked a cheaper flight to another airport  and got a taxi to his car. He 
claimed for the costs of the lost accommodation  and the new return  flights  and taxi.
Admiral declined the claim. It told Mr T it only covered the cost of returning home if he was 
unable to use his original travel plans. It said as his original return flight  was still available 
there was no cover.
Mr T complained to us. He says Admiral hasnt  taken  the circumstances of his claim into 
account. He wants  it to pay his claim. Hes also unhappy that Admiral sent its final response  
letter to his complaint without him having  the chance  to give it all the details.
Our investigator thought Admiral didnt need  to pay the claim.
Mr T didnt  agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was partly uphold  this complaint. I thought 
Admiral couldnt fairly rely on the policy  term it used  to decline the claim and should 
reassess Mr Ts claim.  I said:
The policy says Admiral will:
pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if during your trip your 
accommodation or the immediate area is adversely affected by a catastrophe, which 
meansyou need to return  home early but incur reasonable costs  for additional 
accommodation and travel,  provided  you are unable  to use your return  travel  tickets.
Ref: DRN91548952Admiral hasnt disputed  that the situation  was a catastrophe as defined by the policy.  It 
declined the claim  because Mr Ts original return flight remained.
I dont think thats  a fair and reasonable decision based on the policy wording. If a 
policyholder needed to return  home early due to a catastrophe then whether or not they 
could take their original  flight  shouldnt matter.  On Admiral's reasoning there  could be a 
scenario were someone was in serious danger  due to a catastrophe if they remained abroad  
but it wouldnt cover early return costs if their original  flight  remained, which might be days 
later. I wouldnt think that fair.
Im not suggesting Mr T was in serious danger  but I dont think Admiral can fairly  say it wont 
cover the costs he seeks just because  his original return flight remained.  I would expect Mr T 
to try to change his return flight  to minimise  costs  and he says he tried to do that but 
couldnt.
Admiral cant fairly rely on the policy term that Mr Ts original return  flight  was available  to 
decline his claim.
The real issue is whether Mr T need(ed) to return home early as stated in the policy.  
Admiral referred to policy exclusions in its final response letter which  says it wont pay any 
claim:
when the local or national  authorities have confirmed it is safe to travel or stay at your 
Destination (or)
resulting from you not enjoying  your trip or not wanting to travel.
But Admiral  didnt explain whether and how it thought those exclusions applied to Mr Ts 
claim.
So I think the fair outcome is for Admiral to reassess  Mr Ts claim on the remaining policy 
terms (not taking into account that Mr Ts original  return  flight  was available). It needs to 
consider all the circumstances. Mr T will need  to ensure Admiral has all the information he 
wants it to take into account.
I dont expect Admiral to reassess the claim by the response date given in my provisional 
decision. Its response to this decision  should  be on whether or not it agrees it should 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Once Admiral has reassessed the claim if Mr T disagrees with the outcome he can make  a 
separate complaint to us to consider.
Mr T also complains  that Admiral didnt give him the chance to provide all the circumstances 
of his claim before it issued its final response  letter. Admiral didnt have to wait for all the 
details although  it may have  been able to provide a more comprehensive response if it'd 
done so. The timing hasnt prejudiced Mr Ts ability to make  a complaint to us. Theres no 
basis for me to award compensation to Mr T on that matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T accepted and Admiral didnt  respond  to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN91548953my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr T accepted and Admiral didnt respond  to my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons given in provisional findings and these findings I partly  
uphold this complaint.  
Admiral must reassess Mr Ts claim,  not taking into account that his original flight  was still 
available. As I mentioned,  Mr T will need  to ensure Admiral has all the information he wants 
it to take into account.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  to reassess Mr Ts claim, not taking into 
account that his original  flight was still available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9154895