K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amounts hes been  quoted from his pension. He says these dont  
match what  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) told him he would get when he took it 
out in 2008.
background
In 2008 Mr K met with a Halifax adviser  to discuss his financial needs. The information 
recorded at the time shows that Mr K had a pension from an employer but this wouldnt meet  
the income that he required  when he chose to retire. 
The documentation  shows that there  was a £300 a month shortfall. The adviser 
recommended a Stakeholder pension  with monthly  contributions of £447 a month to meet  
this shortfall. However, it was recorded  that Mr K didnt want  to pay this much,  so instead 
chose to instead contribute £200 increasing  with inflation. The illustrations provided at the 
time showed a monthly maximum pension of £230  but it said the figures  werent guaranteed.
More recently Mr K complained to Halifax, saying he was expecting  £500 a month from his 
pension but instead he was being  told he would get much  less than this.
Halifax considered  Mr Ks complaint but it didnt  think that it had done anything wrong. It 
explained that the values  werent guaranteed,  and the evidence shows that £500  a month 
wasnt ever likely to be achieved. It couldnt  find any record of £500  a month being 
discussed.
Mr K wasnt  happy with this and our investigator looked at his complaint but agreed that 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mr K didnt agree  the case has been passed to me for an ombudsman  decision. Mr K 
says the evidence Halifax has provided doesnt match his recollections of events  and 
documentation from the time of sale is unsigned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  and broadly  for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
I know that Mr K is disappointed with the performance of his pension  and I can understand 
why. But for this complaint to be upheld, Id need  to see that Halifax  had made an error and I 
dont think that it did.
I can see that Halifax did a comprehensive fact-find  and report for Mr K at the time of advice, 
which I think gave him all the information  reasonably required to understand the policy and 
the recommendation made. It was explained  at the time that the values werent guaranteed. 
Mr K has said he was expecting much more from the plan,  £500  a month. But at the time of 
advice Mr K chose not to pay the premiums that the adviser suggested, which even then 
would likely  have fallen  short of £500. Ive not seen any mention of £500 a month  but the 
adviser had a duty to make sure the premiums were  affordable, so if Mr K did say he wanted  
Ref: DRN92447902£500 a month,  this might be a reason why the premiums suggested didnt meet this 
requirement.
In any event, Mr K chose to pay less than half the amount in premiums  per month than 
suggested by the adviser.  So whether or not the £500 was talked  about,  it was recorded that 
Mr K didnt want to commit to pay in the money  that wouldve been required to have a 
chance of reaching  this level of pension in the future.  The adviser recorded that:
to cover  your shortfall would cost £447 net per month, Ive limited my recommendation to 
your budget of £200  because this is the amount you want to commit towards your pension 
needs. You want to retain some disposable  income for any unexpected costs each month. 
This means that you may have insufficient income when  you retire
So I think Mr K ought to have been  aware  that the likely returns  from his pension wouldnt 
match what  he required.
I know that Mr K is unhappy with our service relying  on this documentation  from the time of 
sale, as its unsigned.  But I dont think the fact that its unsigned means its not reliable. I 
think it was likely signed at the time but the copies provided by Halifax are from their 
electronic records and therefore unsigned.
The evidence shows that the information was recorded at the time of sale. The details  about  
Mr K s circumstances in my view show that a discussion  took place. So I think  on the 
balance of probabilities, the information  recorded  at the time represents what  was discussed. 
And I think Mr K wouldve been  provided  with much of this information at the time.  Mr K says 
that his recollections  are different  and he was told the pension would give him £500 a month. 
But I think the strongest  evidence  available  to me is the recorded information  from the time. 
And as already explained, Mr K didnt and wouldnt commit to paying enough in premiums  to 
realistically ever achieve £500 a month in any event.
In conclusion, Im sorry to hear that the pension hasnt performed  as well as Mr K wouldve 
liked. But I dont think Halifax has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9244790