K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  has refused to pay for any future 
treatment her son might need  relating to his mental health.
background
Mrs B has a private medical insurance  policy with AXA through her employer  which also 
provides cover for her son (Mr B) and her husband.
AXAs records show it paid for three  consultations with a psychiatrist and 40 psychotherapy 
sessions for Mr B between  January 2017  and June 2018. It refused to cover any more 
treatment for adjustment disorder, depression, anxiety and associated conditions  after that 
because it considered Mr Bs condition  had become chronic.
Mrs B said it was unfair of AXA to apply this exclusion because Mr Bs mental health 
problems had been two unrelated, acute episodes from which he had fully recovered. And 
she wasnt happy with some aspects of the claim and complaint-handling. AXA wouldnt 
change its stance, so Mrs B asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly in the circumstances. But Mrs B disagreed  and 
so the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I understand 
Mrs Bs strength of feeling and desire for her son to be able to get treatment in the future if 
he needs it, I agree overall with the conclusion the investigator reached. Ill explain  why.
Private medical insurance doesnt  cover all conditions  or all treatments. This policy, like 
many others, is intended to cover the costs of treatment for unexpected illnesses and 
conditions that respond quickly to treatment  these  are also referred to as acute  medical 
conditions. And it excludes  cover  for conditions that are chronic,  defined as a disease, 
illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
It needs need ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations,  examinations,  
check-ups or tests.
It needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
It continues indefinitely.
It has no known cure.
It comes  back or is likely to come back.
However, the policy will cover short-term  in-patient  treatment of flare-ups of a chronic 
condition  that is unexpected complications or worsening of a chronic condition.
This policy also excluded  all treatment  for mental  health problems unless the Mental Health 
Option was taken.  Mrs Bs policy included this option which  meant some treatment was 
covered but its explained in the policy  terms that Our normal rules  on chronic conditions 
apply to mental health problems. So if your condition become chronic, unfortunately we may 
no longer be able to cover  your treatment. 
Ref: DRN97888982What I need to decide in this case is whether AXA made a fair decision to restrict Mr Bs 
cover from 1 June 2018 onwards.
With that in mind, Ive looked at all the medical evidence and also considered  Mrs Bs 
comments, including her assertion that AXA should have treated her sons  need for 
treatment as two separate claims because the problems he was having were  two separate, 
acute incidents.  I note, in particular that:
The GPs initial referral to a consultant psychiatrist in January 2017 said Mr B had been 
suffering with anxiety  and low mood towards the end of the previous school  term, had felt 
stressed while taking  his GSCE mock exams and had been seen in A&E earlier in the 
month because hed been experiencing suicidal  ideation.  Hed already been assessed  by 
CAMHS (the Child and Adult  Mental  Health Service) whod recommended Cognitive 
Behavioural Therapy  (CBT). He didnt think anti-depressants were  appropriate  at that 
time as he wasnt sufficiently convinced Mr B was clinically  depressed.  He asked  the 
psychologist for his expert  opinion and advice regarding further management.
The consultant  psychiatrist saw Mr B in January and March  2017 and noted he 
described having a depressed mood for the past two years  which  had fluctuated but 
been acute since  November 2016. The psychiatrist diagnosed a moderate depressive 
episode triggered  by a fear of underachieving in GCSEs  and usual related teenage 
anxiety. He didnt  recommend  anti-depressants  given the medication Mr B was taking for 
another condition  (ADHD)  but thought CBT appropriate.
The clinical psychologist Mr B saw for CBT reported in April 2017 that he was suffering 
from high levels of anxiety, panic and social anxiety which  had escalated  in December 
2016 in the run up to his mock-GCSE exams. And CBT had been  offered to help address 
these conditions. After  10 sessions she reported that Mr B had made some progress, in 
that he was managing  his school work and exam revision better  with less anxiety and 
less avoidance.  But she recommended  further  weekly sessions. AXA approved  this and 
the psychologist  submitted  a further  report in September  2017 by which time a further 10 
sessions and 3 family  review sessions had taken place. She noted that Mr B continued 
to improve but required  further  support and she envisaged discharge by October/early  
November. Later  that month Mr Bs father called AXA and it confirmed a further 10 
sessions had been approved but also warned that it wouldnt cover ongoing, long-term 
conditions.
AXAs notes show that in late-November  2017  Mr Bs father called because Mr B had 
suffered a relapse at school. AXA recommended they seek advice from the psychiatrist 
and/or psychologist. Mr B saw the psychiatrist in January 2018 and he diagnosed an 
adjustment disorder/a brief depressive  reaction. He noted Mr B hadnt required regular 
outpatient monitoring or anti-depressant medication but recommended further  CBT with 
the same  psychologist. He also said the known stressors in secondary education and in 
university programmes now indicate  that he will need continuing support  to deal with 
these. AXA had approved further  CBT session while awaiting the psychiatrists  report  
and agreed a further six after it was received. It also warned  again that it didnt cover 
long-term conditions  and benefits  might  be withdrawn in the future, but notice would be 
given before doing so.
In March 2018 AXA wrote to Mr B to advise that cover wouldnt continue  after 1 June 
2018. Mr Bs father called  AXA to check the previously approved  six sessions were  still 
Ref: DRN97888983available. AXA confirmed  they were and theyd  given  three  months notice of the 
intention to restrict cover in order to give Mr B time to have the sessions and make 
alternative arrangements. After that letter was issued the psychologist  called AXA to 
make sure there was no misunderstanding about what treatment she was providing. She 
was concerned AXA had referred to the chronic condition clause because  it thought  she 
had been treating Mr B for his ADHD. And she explained she was actually treating him 
for his emotional difficulties, his anxiety and depression.  AXA confirmed it had 
understood this but felt the condition had become chronic. The psychologist did not 
specifically disagree  with this.
In May 2018 the psychiatrist  and psychologist both wrote  to AXA, it seems, having been  
prompted to do so by Mrs B. The psychiatrist said he didnt believe Mr Bs conditions 
was chronic but that he had suffered with a short-lived depressive mood state  which put 
him in danger  but from which he had recovered.  The psychologist  said shes seen Mr B 
for two discrete episodes  for different conditions which occurred in December 2016 and 
January 2018  between  which there had been periods of recovery. And that Mr B was 
managing his mood well and had learned good coping skills.
With the above in mind  it seems Mr B had been suffering with low mood,  depression and/or 
anxiety for some time before he sought  treatment and his need for out-patient CBT to 
manage those conditions was fairly constant  throughout 2017  and 2018.  I appreciate  it can 
take some  time for CBT to take effect and the psychiatrist talked  about  there  being  periods 
of recovery, but I cant see that there was an extended period of stability between what the 
specialist call the two isolated incidents.  Also,  the psychologist indicated  Mr B was using the 
coping skills shed  taught to manage his mood (presumably on an ongoing basis) and 
neither specialist ruled out the possibility that Mr B could  suffer  mental health problems in 
the future.   
In the circumstances, despite  what  the specialists said latterly, I dont think  AXA made an 
unreasonable decision to apply the exclusion with reference to the policy terms and 
definitions and given  the current evidence. 
But what  I would say is that, as noted  above, the policy does cover short-term,  in-patient 
treatment of flare-ups  of a chronic  condition. So if Mr B does require treatment of that nature 
in the future then I would  expect AXA to consider any related claim Mrs B might make in line 
with this, and the rest of the, policy terms and conditions. And a complaint about such could 
potentially be referred to this service  if Mrs B was ultimately unhappy  with AXAs  decision.  
Ive also considered more generally the way in which the claim and complaint were handled 
as Mrs B has raised some concerns  about that. With that in mind, given the continuous 
nature of the CBT treatment I dont think it was wrong of AXA to record just one claim. Im 
pleased to see it was sympathetic  during  phone  calls with Mrs B and her husband, it 
approved further  CBT sessions while  awaiting the specialists reports, it warned more  than 
once that it wouldnt  cover Mr Bs treatment  forever and it gave notice before withdrawing 
cover. Also,  despite what  Mrs B says, I think AXA did give due consideration to the 
additional evidence  she obtained from the psychiatrist and psychologist. 
In light of the above, I dont have any concerns about the way AXA handled the claim and 
subsequent complaint and I dont think it act unreasonably in applying  the exclusion to 
Mr Bs cover.
Ref: DRN97888984my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9788898