K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Progressive Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  taken out in 2010.This  was a few years after Mr M 
took out his mortgage. The policy covered  Mr Ms mortgage repayments against  accident,  
sickness and unemployment
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because Mr M had a medical condition at the time he 
took the policy, which our adjudicator thought wouldnt have been covered.  Progressive 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
I uphold Mr Ms complaint  Ill explain why.
Mr M said that Progressive advised him to take out the PPI. Progressive said Mr M was 
given a leaflet  about PPI and its representative  wouldve  also explained the terms and 
conditions of the policy to him, including that pre-existing  medical conditions wouldnt have 
been covered.  
I cant see that Mr M was advised to take out PPI. So, Progressive didnt have  to make sure 
that the policy was right for Mr M.  But, it still had to give him clear enough information so 
that he could decide for himself if it was right for him and he wanted  to buy it.
I dont think Progressive gave Mr M clear  enough information about the policy.  I say this 
because under the terms and conditions of the policy, I think  it likely that Mr M had a chronic  
condition at the time the policy was taken out. As, it seems, Mr M was suffering from this 
chronic condition at the start date of the policy, I dont think  he wouldve been  covered 
under the policy  for it.
I think Progressive shouldve clearly brought this to Mr Ms attention before he decided  to 
buy the policy. I cant see that it did.
Progressive says Mr M was given  a leaflet and that it wouldve gone through  the exclusions 
with him during any face-to-face meeting. But I dont know when Mr M was given the leaflet 
or what was said during  any conversations  Mr M had with Progressive.  
 
I dont think the exclusion  is highlighted in the paperwork in a way that wouldve been clear  
to Mr M. It isnt covered  until page eight of the leaflet. And I cant see anything at the start of 
the leaflet which drew Mr Ms attention to the importance of reading  this particular section. 
So, I dont think this is good enough.
Ref: DRN97940982I dont think Mr M wouldve bought the policy  if Progressive had given him enough 
information about the exclusions  and limitations. I say this because I think  it wouldve 
mattered to him that he wasnt covered  for his medical condition. I think  he wouldve thought 
it possible hed need to have time off work because of it. I dont think Mr M wouldve thought  
the policy was worth it to him, if he wasnt covered. So, I think Mr M has lost out because of 
what Progressive did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Progressives comments but these dont change my view.
putting things right
Progressive should  put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Progressive should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Progressive can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
If Progressive has already  repaid  any commission amount to Mr M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by Progressive from the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Progressive to take off tax from this interest. Progressive 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and order Progressive  Building 
Society to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9794098