K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a PPI policy  in 2005. Santander was 
trading as Alliance  & Leicester at the time.  
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to the lender as Santander throughout this decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs F complained about a PPI policy sold alongside a further  advance  in 2001.  This 
sale has already  been  dealt with separately so I wont  be assessing  it within  this decision.   
Mr F and Mrs F then applied to amend the PPI in 2005 to increase the monthly benefit and 
add Mrs F to the policy. Our adjudicator felt this amounted to a separate  sale of PPI so felt 
Santander needed to do more than if the policy had just amended. Our adjudicator 
recommended that the complaint be upheld because  Mrs F had a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of the sale.
Santander disagreed with this. It didnt feel the amendment  amounted  to a second sale and 
it felt it had done enough to set out the limitations of the cover. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I wrote  a provisional decision, in which I explained I didnt intend to uphold  the complaint. My 
provisional decision read as follows:
Firstly, I dont think the amendment of the policy  does amount to a new sale of PPI. The 
terms and exclusions of the policy itself remained the same.  Only the insured party and the 
amount of benefit  changed. So I wouldnt expect Santander to provide the same level of 
information about the policy as I would if a new policy  was being sold.  This is because Mr F 
had already agreed to take out the policy once  before, so its more likely he had an 
understanding of the policy and how it worked.
As Mr and Mrs F approached Santander to amend the existing policy to cover Mrs F as well, 
I think they were aware they didnt have to do this and that the policy itself was optional for 
Mrs F.  
Santander has given  me a copy  of the amendment form Mr and Mrs F completed in 2005.  
Directly above where theyve both signed to agree to the amendment was a declaration.  This 
included the statement I accept that Iwill not be covered for any sickness  or condition 
which I amcurrently aware of, or of which Ihave  consulted  a doctor in the last twelve  
months. The form itself was only two pages long, and the declaration  was directly above the 
signature boxes. So I think this information was clear  enough  in the circumstances and I 
wouldve expected  Mr and Mrs F to read the declaration before signing to agree to its 
contents. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr and Mrs F some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Fs 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Santander doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission  Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN93185812Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs F responded  to my provisional decision with any 
additional comments or evidence.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs F provided  any additional information or comments  for 
me to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the findings set out in my provisional  
decision. 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Santander made an error when Mr and Mrs F 
amended their PPI policy in 2005.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9318581