K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the information Home Retail Group  Card  Services Limited gave him 
when he opened  his account.
background
Mr S told us when he opened his store  card account  with Home Retail,  he was told that this 
would have no impact  on his credit score. But according to him it did, and it was a negative 
impact at that. He said had he known this would be the case, he would never have opened 
the account.
Further, he also suggested  he never got any terms and conditions for the account and 
neither was he asked  to fill in anything to set up a direct debit to make  payments to the 
account. As a result, he told us that Home Retail ought to remove  the default it had asked to 
be registered on his credit file because he missed  payments to it.
Home Retail  rejected Mr Ss stance.  It suggested  Mr S wasnt  told opening the account 
would have no impact  on his credit file. It said it had made sure he was sent the relevant 
terms and conditions when the account was first opened. It thought it was up to Mr S to 
make sure he set up a direct  debit to make payments  to his account, if that was what he had 
wanted to do. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In 
summary, he looked at the information  that Mr S was most likely  given  at the time the 
agreement was made. He thought that information  made it clear  that opening the account 
would have an impact  on Mr Ss credit score.
In any event, he wasnt satisfied that opening the account, by itself, had a negative  impact 
on Mr Ss credit file. Our investigator said this because he looked  at whether the information 
Home Retail  had asked  to be registered on Mr Ss credit file stopped  him from getting credit 
elsewhere, but he was not persuaded that it had.
Moreover, our investigator thought it likely that the relevant terms and conditions  were sent 
to Mr S. And he also thought Home Retail did enough to help Mr S set up a direct debit if he 
had wanted to do that.
It appeared that Home Retail accepted our investigators recommendation, however, Mr S 
did not. In summary,  he repeated his earlier stance.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to take a fresh look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive finished my review  of Mr Ss complaint. I am not upholding it. I realise this is likely to 
disappoint Mr S, that isnt my intention, far from it. Please  let me explain why Ive come to 
this conclusion.
Ref: DRN95136782First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im not persuaded that Mr S was told that opening  the account would have no impact on his 
credit file. There can be occasions where merely  looking  into whether a customer  would be 
approved for new credit  might leave no trace on a credit file. But that isnt what  happened 
here. Rather, Mr S applied for the account and then was able to open one after it seems that 
some sort of credit check was run. All of this was likely to be noted on his credit file. After all 
financial businesses, such as Home  Retail, have obligations to report true and accurate 
information to the credit  reference agencies. So, I dont see how Home Retail could have  not 
reported the opening of the account and the steps  it took to check whether Mr S should be 
given the account. In those circumstances, I find it unlikely that Home Retail would tell Mr S 
something that was so inaccurate. 
Also, I see that one of the reasons Mr S wanted the account was it seems  to help build up 
his credit score. That being so, it seems unlikely  Mr S was told and believed  that opening 
this account would have no impact on his credit file and therefore his credit  score.
Home Retails records  show what information  it sends  to consumers in the normal course of 
events when they open an account.  I find in the circumstances, it is likely that it stuck to its 
usual practices in Mr Ss case. That information  also made it clear that opening  the account 
could have an impact  on his credit file. In the circumstances,  I find for this reason too, Mr S 
ought to have been aware that opening the account would have an impact  on his credit file.
Mr S suggests that opening the account  had a negative impact  on his credit  file. However, I 
dont agree, even  if this was the case, Home Retail has to compensate  him for this. I think 
Home Retail  did enough to let Mr S know that opening the account  could have an impact on 
his credit file. He accepted this by opening  the account. He has not suggested that Home 
Retail registered inaccurate information  on his credit file. In any event, the information  he 
has sent us does not show he was declined credit simply  because  he had opened an 
account with Home Retail.
Mr S also suggests he didnt ever receive the terms and conditions for the account. Home  
Retails records show that it did supply  him with the terms and conditions at the time he 
opened his account. It tells us this is its normal practice. I see no reason why it is likely that it 
didnt follow  its usual  practice in Mr Ss case.
It was down to Mr S not Home Retail to make  sure he made  his monthly  repayments  to his 
account. So, while it may not have initially offered to set up a direct  debit for him that does 
not mean it is responsible for Mr S missing his payments.
Ref: DRN95136783In summary,  for all of these reasons, I have no proper basis  for upholding Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9513678