K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining that Admiral Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance 
policy.
Mr S is represented by a representative in this complaint. But for ease of reference I shall 
refer to any comments his representative has made as being  made  by Mr S.
background
Mr S took out a car insurance policy through Admiral to insure  his car. Mr S was later 
involved in a fault accident and called Admiral to claim  on his car insurance  policy.  Admiral 
subsequently avoided his insurance policy back to the beginning. It said that Mr S had used 
a representative   Mr Z  to take out the policy and had paid this person  to do so. It said it 
doesnt allow policyholders to use brokers. It also said that Mr Z had deliberately  given false  
information to get Mr S a cheaper insurance premium. It said that Mr S had said he had a 
second car to enable  him to benefit from a multi-car insurance policy.
Admiral avoided the insurance  policy  on the basis that Mr S had deliberately or recklessly  
misrepresented the risk it was being asked  us to cover in order to get a cheaper premium.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
Under the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA)  Mr S 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying  for his 
insurance policy. And, for the insurer to take any action at all, it needs to show Mr S didnt do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation. While Mr S didnt 
apply for the policy himself, Mr Z was acting on his behalf.  And Mr S is ultimately responsible  
for anything  Mr Z said or did during  the application process.
In this case, it seems  Mr Ss representative  deliberately told Admiral that Mr S owned  two 
cars to benefit from the multicar discount Admiral provides.  It also appears that Mr Z called 
Admiral to take out the policy and held himself out to be Mr S himself. Admiral  says it 
wouldnt have insured Mr S had it known he was using a paid representative.  It also says 
that he wouldnt have  been offered the policy  he was given because he wouldnt  have  
qualified for a multicar  policy as he only owned  one car.
But, as I said above, for Admiral to be able to do anything it has to show  that there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. Mr S  and Mr Z on Mr Ss behalf  was required to answer  
any questions Admiral  asks to get material  information to their best of knowledge and belief. 
Mr S was not required to provide any information that Admiral didnt ask for. I havent seen 
anything to show that Admiral asked whether  the policy was being taken out through  a 
representative. So, while I appreciate Admirals concerns in this respect,  I cant say that 
theres a qualifying misrepresentation in respect  to the fact that Mr S had used a paid 
representative to take out the policy.
However, Mr Z also told Admiral that Mr S owned  two cars. I also note the correspondence 
that Admiral sent Mr S when the policy  started  also said that Mr S had taken out a multicar 
policy and had insured the insured car and another  car.  
But Im also conscious  that Mr S was new to driving  and it seems Mr Z explained to him he 
had contacts who could  reduce the premium payable. Given  his inexperience in driving and 
Ref: DRN99346412applying for insurance,  Im not persuaded that there  was anything  here that would have 
alerted Mr S that this person would have acted  in a fraudulent way. Further  this this, I can 
see that he did call to check  a few things on the policy to ensure that Admiral had the correct 
information. 
We dont know what information Mr S gave Mr Z. But, as I said, Mr Z set the policy up on Mr 
Ss behalf, so I agree  Mr S had a responsibility to check the information given to Admiral  was 
correct. It appears that Mr S may have  not checked the policy  documents  clearly. Had he 
done so he clearly would have realised  Mr Z had incorrectly told Admiral  that Mr S owed two 
cars. So I think there was a misrepresentation in respect this. But, as I said,  Im also 
conscious that he did call Admiral to clarify certain things to try and ensure it had correct 
information.
CIDRA says a misrepresentation is deemed reckless if Mr S didnt care that the information 
was untrue or misleading and/or didnt care whether  it was relevant to the insurer.  Ive taken 
all of Admirals  comments  into account. While  I think that Mr S has to accept some 
responsibility for whats happened, I dont think I can say that Mr S didnt care whether  the 
information given  to Admiral was incorrect.  So I think this misrepresentation was careless.
But CIDRA says that Admiral can avoid the insurance policy  for careless representation if it 
would not have entered into the insurance  contract on any terms. In this case, Mr S entered 
into a multicar insurance policy. But this policy is only available  to consumers  with more than 
one car. And Mr S only owned  one car. Given this, Admiral wouldnt have entered  into this 
insurance contract had it known this. So while I dont think the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  I still think it was fair for it to avoid  the insurance  policy.
CIDRA says that usually  Admiral cant retain  the annual premium where a misrepresentation 
is careless. But in this case,  Admiral has paid out over £3,000  on the other drivers claim. 
And its entitled to recover this loss from Mr S. I understand  that its chosen not to do so. But 
I still think it can offset this premium from what it paid out.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach  
a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision.  So I dont uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9934641