K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt dealt fairly with his claim brought under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  CCA. He wants to be compensated for consequential  
losses and the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced.
background 
The background will be familiar to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. In summary,  Mr P 
brought a section 75 claim relating  to a conservatory  hed had built at his home. He claimed 
that due to poor workmanship  by the suppliers, a company  Ill refer to as A", hed suffered a 
rat infestation. He feels this was largely due to a drainage  channel  being built which  hadnt 
been properly  sealed and had allowed  rodent access. The claim was partly met by insurers,  
but Mr P is claiming further consequential  losses which  he says werent covered by the first 
pay out. Hes told us he doesnt think the remedial  work A carried out has been  successful.
Santander originally  declined Mr Ps section 75 claim.  But it said later that an insurance 
claim in the sum of £9,260  was paid. It told us that Mr P had refused to allow access  to his 
property so a further inspection  could  be completed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 September  2020. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint but only in part. And that I was going  to require Santander 
to pay £1,000 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience caused.  But I didnt think  there  was 
sufficient information  to show that consequential losses over and above the insurance pay 
out had been supplied.  
Since my provisional decision both parties  have replied.  I thank them for their respective 
responses.
Santander said it had nothing to add. Mr P said he didnt  agree that hed refused access  to 
his property but that he would accept the provisional decision in the interests of moving 
forward.
As neither party has provided any additional information, I see no need to change my 
provisional view.  This is largely repeated in my final decision which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the sense of frustration and disappointment that Mr P has experienced 
following the building of his conservatory. And I empathise with both him and his family in 
having to put up with the unpleasantness  and disruption that was caused by the rat 
infestation.
Although part of Mr Ps initial claim has been  met there  remain three outstanding issues.  
Firstly, theres  a quote from a company Ill call M" in the sum of £3,000  + VAT which  relates 
to tracing and removing  any rat corpses.
Ref: DRN99335352Our investigator also recommended that Santander pay for the cost of an independent  
inspection to see if remedial work  to the drainage channel  through  which  rodents  had gained  
access to the property had been  successful.
The final issue in dispute is the recommended award of £1,000  for distress  and 
inconvenience. Ill deal with each aspect separately.
Mr Ps claim is brought under section  75 of the CCA. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly   I 
do take it into account. Briefly summarised - and subject to certain conditions - section 75 
gives the consumer  an equal claim against the supplier of finance where theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier of the goods  and services.
A breach of contract  may occur where  services arent carried  out with reasonable care and 
skill. In order for an award to be made  in respect of consequential losses  there has to be 
information to show that such losses have been incurred and are the foreseeable result of 
the breach of contract.
The quote  by M for Tracing & Removal  of Rats corpses from walls of the property" is just 
that - a quote.  And whilst its stating the obvious the work consists of two distinct  elements. 
The tracing and - conditional upon the result  of that - if required the removal of the rat 
corpses.
As part of the initial investigation, a survey had been undertaken by a company, which  Ill 
refer to as R". R had recommended  that a specialist clean and sanitization  of the loft area 
was required.  And that the removal and disposal  of contaminated  insulation was required.  
The insurance claim also covered the cost of new insulation and fitting.  Im not aware if this 
work has been carried out.
Ive seen no independent confirmation  that any rat corpses remain  within the property. And, 
if they do, that they are the consequence  of the breach  of contract by A relating to the 
construction of the conservatory and the drainage channel.
It may be that an inspection as indicated by M would  confirm  the presence  of dead rat 
corpses. But until that is confirmed Im unable to say that a consequential  loss has arisen  as 
a result of any breach  of contract  by A.
As part of the suggested resolution of this complaint, our investigator recommended 
Santander should pay for an independent report to determine if remedial work carried  out by 
A had been  successful. And I dont doubt that such a report may help identify what, if any, 
works remain to be completed.
Ordering a report is not itself a resolution,  rather its a preliminary step by which a resolution 
may be achieved. And it would normally be for the party which is claiming  that the remedial 
work wasnt successful to provide information  to substantiate such a claim.  Im not aware 
that any information has been  supplied  which is sufficient to show  that the remedial works  - 
which I understand consisted of sealing the gap through  which it was thought the rodents  
had obtained access to the property  - had failed.
Theres an obligation on a party  which alleges a breach of contract  to take reasonable steps 
to mitigate any loss that might be incurred. Theres information to show that Mr P refused 
access to his property.  As a consequence of this the efforts to try and resolve some of the 
Ref: DRN99335353outstanding issues  have not made any further  progress. And no further report as to the 
condition of the property and whether rat corpses  remain  is available.
In his response to my provisional decision he explained that all requests for access had 
been made through As insurance company. And that whilst he was happy  for there to be an 
independent inspection, he wanted it done by Santander.
I can understand Mr Ps reluctance to have any future involvement from A. But he brought  
this complaint against Santander. How Santander  or its appointed agents go about fulfilling 
any obligation it may have under section 75 is a matter  for it to determine. As Mr P refused 
access to his property,  I shant ask Santander to take any further  action in relation to this 
aspect. I find it acted  reasonably in trying to have this additional report  prepared.
In a complaint  based on section 75, we wouldnt usually  include an award for distress and 
inconvenience. Thats because  Santander isnt liable for any elements in the service  
standards of A which dont amount to a breach  of contract.  But in cases  where substantial 
building works  are involved case law does recognise the right of the householder to 
potentially claim for any distress caused  by a breach of contract.
Accordingly, the compensation I intend to award  is on the basis of the distress  and 
inconvenience (for example, rodent infestation) arising out of the breach  of contract by A. 
And not ancillary  matters - such as delays - which by themselves do not amount to a breach 
of contract.
Case law further suggests that such awards  should be modest , dependent upon  the nature 
and duration of the disruption. And awards are usually calculated by reference to an annual 
amount or in the appropriate proportion for lesser  periods.
This service provides guidance  as to how it categorises the level of compensation we award. 
An award of up to £500 is considered to be moderate". Whereas anything above  £500 up to 
£2,000 is considered to be substantial.
Ive taken into account that the original works date back to 2015  although  the complaint 
wasnt brought to this service until May 2018. Overall, I think the £1,000  recommended  by 
our investigator was fair and reasonable.
In summary,  I find that Mr P hasnt supplied sufficient information to show hed incurred 
consequential losses not covered by the earlier insurance claim  pay out. I dont think  
Santander has done anything wrong  in not meeting the claim for the costs  of Ms quote for 
tracing and removing rat corpses until its been established that its necessary.
Mr P declined to allow  access to his property to have  an independent inspection carried out. 
I dont think Santander  should be required to take any further  steps regarding  this aspect. 
But I think it should pay £1,000 in respect  of the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
breach of contract by A in respect of the building works  not being carried  out with reasonable 
care and skill.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold the complaint but only in part.
Ref: DRN99335354I require Santander  UK Plc to take the following action in full and final settlement of this 
complaint:
Pay £1,000 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9933535