K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  about U K Insurance  Limiteds  (UKI) handling of her claim on her home  
insurance policy.
Reference to UKI also includes  its agents  
background 
Miss Bs home was burgled  in June 2018 and a number of different items  were stolen. 
She made a claim to UKI, which had provided her home contents insurance since 
November 2017.
UKI and Miss B were in contact about the claim at various points between June and 
December 2018  when it was settled. UKI asked Miss B for more information about the claim 
and the repair work  needed in her home. Miss B said UKI asked her in October to get quotes 
to repair  the damaged plasterwork, when she thought UKI would arrange  that. UKI later paid 
Miss B to get the work done.  UKI auto-renewed  Miss Bs policy  in November  2018.  
As Miss B wasnt  happy about that, UKI cancelled the policy before it settled the claim.
Miss B complained to UKI about  its handling of her claim and its delays. UKI responded in 
December 2018  and accepted there  had been  periods of inactivity  on its part when  settling 
the claim.  It agreed  to pay Miss B £50 compensation in respect of that. Whilst Miss B 
accepted the payment, she still contacted our service in March 2019 as she wasnt happy 
with UKIs  overall response.  Miss B said that UKIs handling of her claim wasnt  good 
enough. She said its delays meant she couldnt  go to another  insurer  until her claim was 
settled as she needed the money to take out insurance elsewhere. She also said UKI 
wouldnt tell her the likely settlement  figure  for her claim and that it didnt do enough to 
support her- for instance  by sending  tradesmen to take measurements and give quotes for 
repair work. Miss B also said she had to repeatedly ask for policy  documents and that she 
only got them once  shed cancelled her policy with UKI. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said it wasnt unreasonable  for UKI to ask 
Miss B to get quotes for repairing the plasterwork  given the terms of her policy.  
The investigator was also satisfied that UKI had sent Miss B the policy  documents  shed 
asked for. But overall, the investigator  didnt  think UKI hadnt done enough to compensate  
Miss B for the fact that it hadnt always  handled  things well- and particularly because  there  
was around a two-month  delay  when  nothing happened to progress the claim.  
The investigator asked  UKI to pay Miss B another £100 compensation on top of the £50 it 
had paid. UKI agreed to this, but Miss B didnt. So, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Miss Bs made a number of different points to explain why she doesnt think  UKIs  claim 
handling was good enough. And she said it took UKI far too long to settle the claim,  which  
she feels affected her ability to cancel her policy and take out insurance elsewhere. 
Ive considered everything that Miss B said, but if I dont mention everything, its because 
Ive focussed  on what I believe  to be the key issues relating to her complaint to us.
Ref: DRN93450762From Miss B making the claim to it being settled  took around  six months.  And UKI 
recognises there were  periods when things didnt progress as quickly  as they should have 
done. So, it paid compensation  to Miss B to recognise that. My role is to consider whether 
UKI handled Miss Bs claim in a fair and reasonable  way. Ill also consider whether UKI has 
done enough to recognise the extent of its delays; where its handling of things could have 
been better and the impact that it had on Miss B.
Miss Bs particularly concerned that UKI didnt support  her enough during  the claims 
process. She thinks it was unreasonable for UKI to expect her to take measurements of a 
wall and get plasterwork  quotes when she thought UKI would do that. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss Bs point, its fairly typical when an insurance claim is made  for the 
insurer to ask the policyholder for information to support it. That will often include asking for 
receipts for the items being claimed for and may also include quotes or measurements for 
repair work. And, the policy  documents Ive seen say that UKI can ask for information to 
progress the claim,  so I dont think UKIs  request was unreasonable. 
I say that in particular  because  theres  always going  to be an element of inconvenience 
when making an insurance  claim. So, providing  an insurance company is clear about  what  it 
needs and makes prompt requests for the information, I think its reasonable to expect the 
policyholder to provide the information thats needed.   
Miss B says she never received policy documents, so she didnt  know shed have to get 
quotes and measurements. UKI sent me a screenshot  that shows documents were  printed in 
November 2017  when Miss B took out the policy and were sent to Miss Bs correct address.  
So, Im satisfied that UKI sent the documents and to the right address. And whilst I 
appreciate Miss B doesnt appear to have received them before about December 2018, I 
dont think UKI was responsible for the documents it sent not being  received. 
Miss Bs frustrated because  she said she had to repeatedly ask UKI for the policy 
documents. Ive seen  from UKIs  file that Miss B asked for the policy  documents  to be sent to 
her around the time she made her complaint. And I can also see that UKI reprinted  them and 
sent them to her. The evidence is less clear about any earlier  requests Miss B might  have  
made, so Ive thought about  whats most likely to have happened. 
The customer service team said it tried to call Miss B about  her policy  documents  (its not 
clear when), but she didnt answer the calls. Whilst I havent received any call records or 
recordings, Im persuaded that, on balance,  UKI probably knew earlier  on that Miss B 
wanted the documents to be re-sent to her. So, irrespective of whether she answered its 
calls or not, I think it should have  just sent them to her. And whilst theres no guarantee that 
shed have received them  given the other  problems  shed  had with documents not being 
received, I think UKI should at least have tried. But theres no evidence  that UKI did that until 
much later when she asked again. So, I can appreciate it might have come out of the blue to 
Miss B that she needed to get information  to support  her claim, as she hadnt seen the policy 
documents. But that doesnt mean it was wrong of UKI to ask for supporting information. 
Ive thought about whether UKIs requests for further  information  from Miss B were clear and 
reasonable. As UKI hasnt  been  able to send me call recordings, Ive looked at other 
information on file. I can see that UKI noted  in in early August that it asked Miss B to get 
measurements for the damaged  area,  so that it could scope for the plasterwork needed. 
Ref: DRN93450763UKI then added that it would wait for this information, which Ive taken to mean the 
measurements of the damaged area. 
Miss B said it was difficult for her to get measurements, due to the height  of the walls in her 
home. I can appreciate  this might have been  a little tricky. But, in any event,  Im not 
persuaded overall that it was an unreasonable request on UKIs  part.  
I think UKIs file note could suggest that UKI was going to arrange quotes  once  it had the 
measurements from Miss B. But if UKI expected Miss B to get the quotes,  its not apparent 
how clear UKI made that to Miss B. And that might explain Miss Bs surprise when she found 
out in October  that she was expected to get them. And its also likely that had it been made 
clear to Miss B about what she needed to do, shed have  acted sooner. I say that in 
particular because repairing the plasterwork was part and parcel of completing the 
necessary work in Miss Bs home.  And, as Miss B said, making it safe again.  So, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that UKI did make  it clear enough to Miss B what she needed to 
do.
Its also a pity that UKI wasnt  always proactive  in managing the claim. Had it been, I think  
this issue would have  come to light sooner. Because there were gaps in progress, UKI didnt 
ask Miss B whether shed  managed to get the quotes for the plasterwork until October. And I 
can appreciate this must have caused her inconvenience in realising four months after shed 
first made her claim that UKI expected  her to do that.
Alongside that, some  of the supporting information  Miss B sent wasnt  considered  for about 
two months. It is possible there  would  have been some element of delay even if UKI had 
considered the information promptly. For instance,  while it gathered and processed  all of the 
supporting information needed to validate  the claim. But I do think that if UKI had been more 
proactive, the claim may have been settled sooner than it was. 
Miss B doesnt think UKI should have auto-renewed  her policy. The policy  documents  Ive 
seen say auto renewal is an option and UKI would send  a quote at least  21 days before the 
policy was due for renewal. But, as Miss B says she didnt receive  the policy documents 
when she took out the policy, she may not have been aware  that UKI could send a renewal 
quote automatically a few weeks before  the policy was due to run out. Had UKI sent 
duplicate documents  when  Miss B first asked for them, she might have known about the 
auto renewal option. And, as she says she didnt receive the renewal quote either, shes  
unlikely to have  known that UKI would auto renew  the policy if it didnt hear from her. 
And whilst I cant  explain  why Miss B didnt  receive  several sets of key documents, Im 
satisfied that UKI sent them to the right address. And, Im also satisfied  that UKI was entitled 
to auto renew the policy in line with its terms and conditions. 
Miss Bs described the impact the delays had, including  that they prevented  her from taking 
out insurance elsewhere. She says thats  in part because UKI wouldnt tell her the settlement 
value of her claim.  Ive thought about  this and, overall, Im not persuaded that the delays did 
stop Miss B from cancelling  her policy with UKI and going  elsewhere. 
Miss B hasnt given  me any evidence to show  that other insurers wouldnt insure  her. Or that 
UKI wouldnt  help her by giving her the information  shed  asked for- if only in part- until the 
Ref: DRN93450764claim was settled fully. And, in the absence of any other supporting evidence, Im not 
persuaded that Miss B couldnt get insurance elsewhere. 
I say that because its a fairly common occurrence for there to be outstanding claims with 
other insurers when  a customer approaches a different insurer  about taking out a policy. 
And whilst I accept  an ongoing claim might make  getting  new insurance  a little more  difficult- 
particularly if the new insurer wants to know the settlement value of other claims made-I 
dont think it automatically means that a new insurer wont offer insurance. And Im also not 
persuaded that Miss B couldnt take out other insurance until her claim had been paid out. I 
appreciate that her options might have been more limited because  she couldnt pay for her 
insurance upfront.  But, Im aware that many insurers will offer insurance  policies that can be 
paid in instalments.  And, as UKI did cancel Miss Bs policy  before the claim was settled, Im 
satisfied overall  the delay  in settling the claim didnt prevent Miss B from seeking insurance  
elsewhere.  
To summarise, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that UKI caused about a two-month delay 
where there  was little progress. And it could have tried to send duplicate  policy  documents 
sooner and make it clear  to Miss B earlier on that it needed  her to get quotes. And theres no 
doubt those things added to the overall  time it took to settle  the claim. 
UKI agreed,  following our investigators assessment,  to pay Miss B another  £100 
compensation on top of the £50 it had already given her, recognising  in particular that it had 
caused delays.  Im satisfied this payment  of £150 reflects  the inconvenience  Miss B suffered 
because UKI didnt always handle things as well as it should have done.   
my final decision
I understand that UKI agreed to pay Miss B another £100 compensation on top of the £50 
that it has already  paid.  Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. So, my final decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Miss B 
another £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9345076