K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, unfairly seized funds from his 
account and then closed his account.
 
background
On 1st July 2017, Mr Ms account  was credited  with a transaction for £2000.  On 5th July, 
having received  notification  that the funds had been  sent fraudulently, Halifax blocked the 
account and two days later, sent a notice of closure  to Mr M.  It also seized the remaining 
£800 from his account.
So, Mr M complained.  He said he was entitled  to the funds  which were  being sent by his 
brother.  He claimed a previous similar  transaction had occurred  on his account  in the past 
and had not been blocked.
Halifax did not uphold  his complaint.  It asked Mr M for proof that he was entitled  to the funds 
 but that never transpired.
And when  Mr M came to this service, our investigator did not think  he could ask Halifax  to do 
anymore either.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I do not 
intend to uphold this complaint.
In relation to Halifaxs conduct, if it received information suggesting the funds were  
fraudulent, it is entitled to ring fence the money and ask for proof of entitlement.  It did this  
but Mr M says he never received that request for proof.
I think it is more  likely than not that Halifax did ask Mr M for proof.  And I remind myself that 
even if Mr M did not receive  this, it was always open to him to show Halifax  that the money 
was coming from his brother and that he was entitled to it.  He  did not do so.
In fact, when he queried this with our investigator, he again  had the opportunity to provide 
evidence of entitlement.  He did not do so.
And as has been  explained to Mr M before, generally speaking, this service cannot interfere 
in Halifaxs decision to close his account.   I have seen that a notice of closure  was sent in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions.
So, in the circumstances, I cannot say that Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
seizing the funds and closing Mr Ms account.
Accordingly, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN98503652my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9850365