K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK Plc declined  her credit card application.  
background
Miss S banks with Barclays and wanted to take out one of its credit cards. She says her 
intention was to reduce  the amount of interest she has to pay on another credit card (from  
a different provider),  by making a balance transfer.  
Miss S received promotional emails from Barclays stating that shed been pre-selected for 
a credit card, and discussed her credit application with advisors in branch before applying  
online. She says she was asked questions about what  other forms of credit  she already had, 
and was told that it was likely she would be accepted for the credit card.
After applying for the credit card online,  Miss S application was declined. Miss S asked for 
more information  about why this had happened. Initially the advisor Miss S spoke to couldnt  
answer this. But she was later told shed  been  turned down  due to affordability concerns. In 
further conversations with Barclays, Miss S found  out that the credit limits across her existing 
credit card and a store card, totalled  a sum of available credit amounting to more than half 
her income. Miss S said she was unsure of the credit limit on her store  card, and after 
speaking to the provider, found  the limit was much higher than shed expected.  
Miss S said shes unhappy that she was turned down for the new credit card due to having 
too much  available credit elsewhere. After finding  out the high credit limit on her store card 
was a problem,  Miss S said shed contacted the provider and had the limit significantly 
lowered. She said if shed  been  advised  of this element of Barclays lending  criteria when 
she spoke to advisors in branch, she would have  arranged  to reduce the credit limit on her 
store card before making the credit  card application. 
Miss S is reluctant to make another  credit card application in the near future as she said 
shes worried this will reflect poorly  on her credit  file. Miss S said she intends to wait 
between six and 12 months before making  another  credit card application, and is unhappy 
that she will be continuing to pay a higher rate of interest on her existing credit card during 
that time.  
Miss S complained to Barclays  she said she felt they were  responsible  for the higher rate 
of interest she would be paying  on her existing credit card, and asked to be reimbursed. 
Barclays apologised that Miss S may have been  provided with incorrect  or conflicting 
information when  she visited its branches. It credited a total of £150 in compensation to her 
account. However, Barclays did not agree  to cover the additional interest charges Miss S 
has to pay on the credit card she holds  with another provider. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss S brought  her complaint to this service.  An 
investigator here looked into the complaint and said that Barclays  had done nothing  wrong.  
Miss S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
its unfair that some Barclays  employees  are aware  of the lending criteria and some arent.
Ref: DRN97868452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss S is very conscious of maintaining a good credit  file and Im aware  that 
she intends to wait for between six and 12 months before applying  for another credit  card.  
I understand her reasons  for this, but choosing to wait is Miss S personal choice. I also 
recognise shes disappointed that a search has been carried out which  hasnt resulted in 
a new credit card for her. However, I cant say that Barclays has done anything wrong here  
Ill explain  why.
Lending is always at the business discretion and each lender will have its own individual  
lending criteria. In the case of two similar applications, one lender may approve where 
another would  decline,  and theyre entitled  to do this. A business lending criteria  are 
considered commercially sensitive, so I cant agree  that the advisors Miss S spoke to in 
branch should  have  divulged the specifics. 
I understand that the complaint handler  Miss S spoke  to indicated advisors in branch  should 
be better trained  in the lending criteria,  and that this information should  be displayed  online 
too. Ive asked Barclays about its expectation  of advisors in branch discussing credit card 
applications. It said its advisors are trained to explain the following to customers:
the terms and conditions of the card;
the information which will be needed  for the application;
the need for a credit  check  to be carried out; and
the kinds of things the credit check will confirm,  such as late or missed payments, 
borrowing elsewhere and general  credit history.  
Barclays said its advisors would not necessarily know when it would lend and when it 
wouldnt, as this isnt their area of expertise and not something theyre  expected to advise 
customers about. 
Based on this, it seems  fair that Barclays advisors  are able to give generic but not specific  
advice. To delve any further into an individuals circumstances would  essentially  be carrying  
out a creditworthiness check,  which happens  after an application  has been made. I dont 
think it would  be reasonable for me to say that the branch advisors  should  have  done  
anything more when  Miss S spoke to them about  making an application. 
Looking at Barclays complaint file, I cant  see that it found any evidence  of incorrect  
information being provided when  Miss S visited its branches. However,  it credited Miss S 
account with £150 as a goodwill  gesture.  I think  this is fair and Ive found no reason that 
Barclays should make  any further  payment to Miss S.
Ref: DRN97868453It wasnt possible for Barclays to confirm with certainty that Miss S would be accepted for 
a credit card until after it carried out a credit search.  I know  Miss S believes she would have 
been accepted for the credit card if shed been  advised to lower  her available  credit  before 
applying. However,  lenders  are only required to tell customers the main reason  their 
application has been turned down  Miss S application may also have been  declined for 
other reasons. This means  that although Miss S has lowered her available credit, each 
application is assessed afresh. Here,  Ive looked  at this specific  application  and I dont 
think Barclays has behaved  unfairly.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid £150  in compensation and I think  this is a fair 
amount in all the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not need to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9786845