K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, failed to carry out a balance  
transfer request  and this has cost him considerable amounts in interest.  
background
In June 2018 Mr H made  a request  to transfer  £3,100.56 from his Halifax  credit  card account 
to his credit  card account with Provider  A. 
Shortly afterwards Provider A contacted Mr H and told him the payment from Halifax had 
been reversed.  But the money didnt arrive back in Mr Hs Halifax account. Mr H contacted 
Halifax who said it would put a trace on the funds.  
In late June, when  he didnt hear anything  further, Mr H complained  to Halifax.  He said the 
funds still hadnt  been found.  He also said he was being charged interest by Provider  A and 
had incurred a late payment charge.  He didnt want his credit record  affected. 
In mid-July and early  August Halifax wrote  to Mr H saying  it was still investigating and saying 
he had the right to refer his complaint to us. 
In late August Mr H complained to us as the funds still hadnt been credited  to his Halifax 
account. He was also unhappy  he hadnt been  able to carry out the balance transfer. 
Our investigator asked  Halifax on numerous  occasions to take urgent action to resolve the 
situation. But it wasnt until mid-October  2018 that Mr H himself told us that the money 
arrived back in his account. The complaints team at Halifax was unaware  of this until we 
informed them. After  enquiries, it was unable to say why it had happened.  
Mr H still wanted to do the balance transfer,  and he wanted re-imbursement of all monies  he 
was out of pocket,  along with compensation for his time and the unacceptable  service. He 
provided evidence  of the interest hed paid on his account with Provider  A since  the 
unsuccessful balance  transfer.
 
After discussions with our investigator, Halifax offered to pay £350 for Mr Hs distress and 
inconvenience. It also agreed to pay the interest  hed incurred on his account with Provider  
A. Finally, it said that a balance transfer  was still available. But Mr H could only transfer  up to 
90% of his credit limit with Halifax and his balance  with Halifax  and Provider A wouldnt allow  
the whole  of the Provider A account to be cleared. 
In mid-December our investigator  gave his view on the complaint. He said he thought  
Halifaxs offer was fair. 
Mr H thought the compensation offered was far too low. He said hed had his finances 
affected for more than six months, hed spent  around 30 hours on the issue to date and his 
time was worth  more  than £11 an hour. He also referred to a data breach.
Shortly after this the case came to me for decision. I asked our investigator to respond to Mr 
Hs comments on the view. Unfortunately I was not as clear  as I could have been, and I 
appreciate this caused some confusion for Mr H. That wasnt  my intention.  The intention was 
to ensure that all issues raised by Mr H had been  addressed prior to a formal  decision from 
me, so that we could be sure that it couldnt  be resolved informally.  
Ref: DRN96120442In early January  2019 I asked our investigator  to get the most current  Halifax and Provider A 
statements from Mr H. And we asked him to try to carry  out a balance  transfer if he still 
wished to do so. We also explained that his data breach complaint needed  to be dealt with 
separately under our rules. So I wont be dealing with the alleged data breach in this 
decision. 
Mr H responded, saying he wasnt able to do a balance transfer and when he contacted 
Halifax he was told the deal had run out. This meant  he was not able to clear  the Provider A 
card balance. 
The next day we contacted Halifax to get details of the balance  transfer offer available in 
June. But despite  numerous requests, it wasnt provided until late February 2019.
On 15 March 2019 I issued a provisional decision.  My provisional findings  were as follows:
Ive looked very carefully at all the information on the file. As far as I can tell, whilst Halifax  
have said that it still doesnt know why the balance transfer funds werent immediately 
returned to the account, it has accepted  that is should pay compensation. In my view this is 
correct, as Halifax has offered no explanation for why it took so many months to resolve.
I need to decide how much  compensation Halifax should  pay Mr H for his trouble and upset 
and for the interest payments on his Provider A credit card account because  the balance  
transfer did not proceed. But I also think Halifax should allow  Mr H to complete a balance 
transfer to Provider  A and I propose to tell Halifax to allow him to do so 
I appreciate that Halifax hasnt said that its responsible for the reason the credit  transfer  
couldnt be made. It still doesnt  know  what  has happened. But if the funds had gone back  
into his account  in a reasonable amount of time after the failed balance transfer in June, he 
couldve attempted a balance  transfer then. And although Halifax has said it can withdraw 
balance transfer  offers at any time,  it hasnt been able to tell us when the offer that was 
available in June  2018 was withdrawn. In these  circumstances it is fair to tell Halifax  to give 
Mr H an opportunity to do so. 
Weve asked Halifax to give us the terms and conditions for the balance transfer promotional  
offer available in June  2018. Its told us that the balance transfer deal was for a two-year 
interest free period.  But Mr Hs June 2018  Halifax statement shows  that the interest free 
period for the balance transfer offer expired  on 31 May 2021. So I think this shows that the 
interest free period  was three years. 
There is conflicting information as to the amount of the credit limit available  for balance  
transfers. Halifax has told us that customers may only use 90% of their credit  limit. But it 
hasnt provided  any evidence of this. However  the terms and conditions  on the Halifax 
website, which is where Halifax  told us the terms and conditions  for the MasterCard account 
could be located,  indicate that 95% of the credit limit may be used. Mr Hs credit limit is 
£6,000.00 so 90% of that limit is £5,400.00  and 95% is £5,700.00. 
I think that even if only the 90% calculation is used, this will allow  Mr H to clear the current  
balance on his card with Provider  A. I dont have  his most current  statements. But his 
statement with Provider A dated  2 January 2019  showed a balance of £2,773.76. I would 
expect that balance to have reduced  slightly since then, as Mr H will have made some 
minimum payments. And his late December statement for Halifax  showed  an outstanding 
Ref: DRN96120443balance of £2,485.77 with available  credit of £3,514.23. And I would expect the available 
credit to have increased slightly  since then due to payments made. So if Mr H transferred an 
amount of slightly under £2,773.76 to his Provider  A account, I would expect the balance of 
his Halifax account  to be a little under £5,259.53. This would be comfortably  under  the 90% 
cap. But to be on the safe side, I propose to tell Halifax to allow Mr H to transfer up to 95% of 
this credit limit. I think this is fair given that the available  documentary  evidence indicates this 
is the limit available for transfers. 
So in summary,  I propose to tell Halifax to allow Mr H to carry out a balance transfer to his 
Provider A account  of an amount that takes  the credit used no higher than 95% of Mr Hs 
credit limit for an interest free period of three years.  Other  terms and conditions  will still 
apply, such as the need to make a minimum payment, and to pay a balance transfer fee, 
which in this case is 3% of the amount  transferred. 
I understand that the current balances are not the same as those in June 2018, but this 
seems the most reasonable way of achieving a fair outcome as it isnt possible for me to 
order a reconstruction  of the Provider A balance.  
Halifax has already  offered  to reimburse  the interest  that Mr H has had to pay on his 
Provider A balance. I propose to tell it to do so up until the time Mr H carries out the balance 
transfer. I appreciate  that this may be for more  months that Halifax anticipated,  but as it has 
taken Halifax quite  some  time to provide  information  when  requested, I dont think this is 
unfair. I would expect Mr H to provide evidence to Halifax of the interest paid before 
reimbursement takes place. 
Mr H is unhappy with the amount Halifax has offered for his distress  and inconvenience.  
Hes told us it has affected his health  and he had to have a week  off work with stress. Its 
also affected his wife and three children. Hes also said he has spent more  than 30 hours on 
the complaint  to date and his time is worth more  than the £350 offered.
Ive no doubt that Mr H has been  affected  by the situation, and I accept what  hes said about 
the impact on him. I propose to tell Halifax to pay Mr H £500 for his trouble and upset.  As 
well as the impacts Mr H has raised,  hes had to experience the stress of the situation for a 
good many  months,  and had the additional  financial burden caused by having  to make 
repayments on both his Provider A account and his Halifax account. So I think £500  is fair.
My provisional decision was that Halifax must:
(a)Allow Mr H to transfer an amount to his account  with Provider A, such amount not to 
take Mr Hs credit to above  95% of his credit  limit. Any such  balance transfer is to be 
on promotional terms of 3 years  interest  free, subject to the other terms and 
conditions relating to minimum payments and balance transfer fee of no more than 
3% of the amount transferred.
(b)Reimburse Mr H the interest paid on his Provider  A account from the date of the 
unsuccessful balance  transfer to the date of the balance transfer under (a) above; 
and
(c)Pay Mr H £500 for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr H said he looked forward to hearing the banks  response, but didnt comment on the 
provisional decision. Halifax agreed  with the provisional decision, but said it wanted a 
Ref: DRN96120444timeframe specified for the balance transfer,  and it wanted Mr H to provide a copy of his 
Provider A statements to it before it would reimburse the interest.  Halifax  also provided  
copies of recent statements on Mr Hs Halifax account.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has asked me to specify a time by which the balance  transfer  must  be requested. I 
think this is reasonable  as in my proposed decision Halifaxs  obligation  to pay Mr H the 
interest hes incurred  on his account  with Provider  A continues until that balance  transfer.  It 
wouldnt be fair to Halifax  if Mr H can do the balance transfer at any time.
As I said in my provisional findings,  I wasnt aware  of the up to date balances  of Mr Hs 
accounts. Halifax has provided me with a copy of Mr Hs Halifax  credit  card statement dated 
25 February 2019. This shows that Mr H made a large purchase  for £3,000  on 11 February. 
The statement  dated 25 March 2019 shows a balance of £5,401.08. Halifax has told us that 
Mr H made  a payment  of £400 on 1 April which further reduced his balance.  Im not aware of 
the current balance  of this account,  or of his account with Provider A. Because  of this I will 
also make  provision in my order  for the situation  if Mr H doesnt or cant  request a balance 
transfer. This could  be because he has no credit  limit available on his Halifax account  for the 
balance transfer  (ie his balance is over £5,700) or he has already paid off his Provider A 
account some other way. 
I see no reason to change  the other  aspects  of my decision, as Halifax  has accepted them,  
and Mr H didnt comment.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc must:
(a)Pay Mr H £500 for his distress and inconvenience;
(b)Within one month of Mr H accepting this decision, allow Mr H to transfer  an amount 
to his account with Provider A, such  amount not to take Mr Hs credit  to above 95% 
of his credit limit. Any such balance transfer is to be on promotional  terms of 3 years 
interest free, subject  to the other  terms and conditions relating to minimum payments 
and balance transfer fee of no more than 3% of the amount  transferred.
a.If Mr H makes such a balance transfer, Halifax must reimburse  Mr H the 
interest accrued  on his Provider  A account from the date of the unsuccessful 
balance transfer  to the date of the balance transfer under  (b) above,  upon 
provision of the Provider A account statements by Mr H. 
b.If Mr H doesnt  request a balance  transfer,  it must reimburse  Mr H the interest  
accrued on his Provider A account from the date of the unsuccessful balance  
transfer to one month after his acceptance  of my final decision, upon  
provision of Provider A account  statements by Mr H. 
Ref: DRN96120445Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9612044