K822xcomplaint
Mr O instructed Harrington  Jones Ltd (Guernsey), trading as Consumer Claims, to deal with 
a claim for potentially mis-sold PPI.
background 
Mr O instructed Consumer Claims in May 2018  and his claim was successful in January 
2019. He has complained  that Consumer Claims took too long to deal with his claim and that 
he dealt with the PPI provider  himself,  providing  them with additional information. Because  of 
this, he doesnt  think Consumer Claims are due their fee.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.
Our investigator found that Consumer Claims had acted reasonably when dealing with the 
claim, and he felt they werent responsible for any delays.  He also felt that Mr O dealing  with 
the PPI provider direct didnt cancel the contract. But he also found  the claim was against a 
joint named PPI policy, but Consumer Claims only had Mr Os authority to act. Because of 
this he felt Consumer  Claims could only charge their fees on Mr Os half of the 
compensation awarded by the PPI provider.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint, as he would  like the full fee to be waived.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
delays
Mr O instructed Consumer Claims in May 2018,  and the claim wasnt successful until 
January 2019.  I can see why Mr O thinks nine months is a long time for a claim to be dealt 
with, and why he feels things were delayed.
Consumer Claims, like most claims management companies, have a two-stage  process.  
After preparing the paperwork, they first have  to check whether any PPI policies were sold. 
They asked the PPI provider about  this in June 2018. The PPI provider didnt confirm  that 
PPI had been sold until late August. I agree that Consumer Claims cant be blamed for the 
time the PPI provider  took to deal with this.
The second  stage of the process is to make  the mis-selling claim itself.  Consumer Claims 
asked Mr O for an authority to do this in September, but he didnt  provide  this until 
November. As the claim couldnt be made  without  this, Consumer  Claims werent able to 
move things forward.
Once Mr O had given  his authority, Consumer Claims  made the claim for him. The claim was 
successful in January  2019. Three months is not an unusual time for a claim to be dealt with, 
and again I cant  blame Consumer  Claims for the time the PPI provider took.
Ref: DRN92248652Because of this, I agree with the investigator  that Consumer Claims didnt cause any undue  
delays to the claim.
dealing with the PPI provider direct
I havent seen  anything to show that Mr O dealt  with the PPI provider direct, but I dont doubt 
there was some contact  between them. Consumer Claims were acting as Mr Os 
representative in his claim. Because of this the PPI provider shouldnt have dealt with him 
directly  where its clear  a representative is acting, they should have dealt with the 
representative.
When contacted  by the PPI provider, Mr O had the choice  to deal with them, or ask them to 
contact Consumer Claims. He chose to deal with the PPI provider direct,  knowing that 
Consumer Claims were  charging for their services. Mr Os choice doesnt alter this fact, and I 
dont agree that Consumer Claims fee should  be reduced or waived  as a result. 
fees
Consumer Claims charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of 
work they actually did. This means any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, Consumer Claims fee may be more  or less 
than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of 
agreement.
Just because Consumer  Claims  fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for 
Mr O doesnt make  their fee unjustified.  Because Consumer Claims did the work that led to 
the claim being successful, I cant say that they should waive their fee.
But this was a joint claim between Mr O and his partner. Where  there  is a joint claim, both 
parties should give their instructions. Consumer Claims only had Mr Os authority to act, so 
they are only entitled to charge their fee on what he was awarded. In joint claims the 
compensation is split on a 50/50  basis, so I agree that Consumer Claims can only charge 
their fee on Mr Os half of the award.
Ref: DRN92248653my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold the complaint about the fees. Harrington Jones 
Ltd (Guernsey) must  reissue  their invoice, charging their fees on Mr Os half of the 
compensation awarded only.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9224865