K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr O say Yorkshire Building  Society  trading as Chelsea Building Society - 
(Yorkshire) - mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
In 2006, PPI was added to a mortgage Mrs and Mr O were taking out. The policy was in     
both their names and the benefit was split 60% for Mrs O and 40% for Mr O and provided  
cover for sickness, accident  and unemployment. The PPI was free for the first 24 months 
and after that Mrs and Mr O paid £58.50  a month  for it. Mrs and Mr O feel that this policy  
was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld  due to a medical condition Mrs O had at 
the time of sale. Yorkshire was unhappy  with the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has 
was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision (a copy  of which is attached  to the end 
of this decision) in July 2019, and explained  why I wasnt thinking of upholding the complaint.  
But I said I would consider any further  comments or evidence before I reached  my final 
decision.
Both parties  said they received  the provisional  decision. Yorkshire had nothing further to 
add. Mrs and Mr O said they felt Mrs O wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy  
because of her medical condition. And they also explained that the reason  they hadnt  
mentioned it as a medical condition previously is because Mrs O had never needed to take 
any time of sick because of it. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments,  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs and Mr Os case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Ive carefully thought  about the additional  information Mrs and Mr O have provided in relation 
to Mrs Os medical condition. But having done so, my decision remains the same.  Looking  at 
how this condition affected Mrs Os day to day life I still think its unlikely that they wouldve 
thought this would be the main reason they would  need to claim on the policy in the future. 
Mrs O has said she didnt consider it a health problem because she has never been ill from 
the condition or needed  to take any time off from work  due to it. And the policy wouldve 
covered other illnesses  unrelated to her condition. 
The PPI also covered Mr O. So, I still think the policy  would have been useful for them.  
Overall I dont think Mrs and Mr O have  lost out by anything  Yorkshire  might  have done 
wrong. Which means Yorkshire doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs and Mr O.
Ive also thought about whether Yorkshire  needs to give Mrs and Mr O some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As 
Ref: DRN98284492Mrs and Mr Os mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Yorkshire doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mrs and Mr O paid for the PPI they had with that 
mortgage.
I know Mrs and Mr O feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put 
time and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve 
raised, but for the reasons explained above  and in my provisional decision, these points 
dont change my decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
complaint
Mrs and Mr O say Yorkshire Building Society  trading as Chelsea Building Society - (Yorkshire)  - 
mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI). 
background
In 2006, PPI was added to a mortgage Mrs and Mr O were  taking out. The policy was in     both their 
names and the benefit was split 60% for Mrs O and 40% for Mr O and provided cover for sickness,  
accident and unemployment. The PPI was free for the first 24 months and after that Mrs and Mr O 
paid £58.50 a month for it. Mrs and Mr O feel that this policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN98284493Our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld  due to a medical condition Mrs O had at the time 
of sale.  Yorkshire  was unhappy with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has now been passed 
to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Os case.
Having done that, I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs and Mr O and Yorkshire agree the policy was sold during a meeting. During that meeting, 
Yorkshire had to make  Mrs and Mr O aware they had a choice in buying the policy.  Mrs and Mr O say 
they thought the policy was compulsory. 
Yorkshire has provided a copy of Mrs and Mr Os mortgage documents   including the mortgage 
application form. The application form has a section about the PPI. In this section, it asks applicants 
to select  whether they want to take the policy or not by ticking the relevant box. On Mrs and Mr Os 
form, the box to select the policy has been ticked and they have signed the form. There  is nothing to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory  and from what  we know about how Yorkshire sold these policies at 
the time  it usually gave customers the option. 
So I think its likely Yorkshire made it clear that Mrs and Mr O didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
choose to take it  although I can understand why they cant remember  this. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the policy to Mrs and Mr O. So this means it didnt have to check  if the 
PPI was suitable for them. But it did have to make sure Mrs and Mr O got the information they needed 
to decide if it was right for them. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Yorkshire gave Mrs and Mr O 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. Mrs and Mr O say they have had some sick pay 
benefits from their employer.  The policy  wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits they were 
entitled to. It wouldve also covered them  if they became unemployed.
Mrs and Mr O say that Mrs O had a medical condition at the time. Looking at what Mrs O has told us 
about her condition and how it impacted her life, I think its unlikely  Mrs and Mr O would  have thought 
this would  be the main  reason they might need to claim  on the policy in the future. And the PPI would  
have covered them  for other things. So I dont think the fact she couldnt  claim on the policy for the 
condition wouldve put them  off. And based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Os circumstances at the 
time, it doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
- such  as unusual working patterns.
Mrs and Mr O were borrowing funds against a large  and long term financial commitment, which  was 
secured on their home. So I think having the security that their mortgage repayments would  be made  
if either of them became too unwell  to work  or was made redundant.  And theyve said they didnt have 
any savings or other means  they could  have  relied  on. So it looks like the policy would  have been 
useful for them if something went wrong.
From everything Ive been given, looks like the policy was affordable for them.  And the policy  could 
have been cancelled at any time had their needs changed. So I dont think better  information about 
the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mrs and Mr O have lost out by anything Yorkshire might have done wrong.  Which  
means Yorkshire doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr O.
Ref: DRN98284494Ive also thought  about  whether Yorkshire  needs to give Mrs and Mr O some of the commission they 
paid back. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mrs and Mr Os mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Yorkshire  doesnt need  to refund  any of the commission Mrs 
and Mr O paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
Ref: DRN9828449