K821x#15Complaint
Mr P (by the way of a representative)  says that Indigo Michael Limited  (trading as SafetyNet  
Credit (SNC)) didnt complete sufficient affordability checks  before approving  his facility. 
Mr P reports  being in a debt spiral to the extent that the facility wasnt affordable.  
Background
Mr P approached SNC  for a facility in August 2013.  This was a running credit account where 
a consumer could  either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited  
into their bank account once their account  balance fell below a safety  net amount of the 
customers choosing.
Mr P was initially  given a facility with a £100  credit  limit in August 2013. His limit was 
increased on a further five occasions  with his final increase taking his credit limit to £250 in 
June 2014. The facility was repaid in April 2018.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ps complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried  out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate.  And that the information SNC gathered about
Mr Ps circumstances suggested he would be able to afford  the repayments he was 
committed to making. But, due to the way Mr P used  the facility, our adjudicator  thought 
SNC should have  stopped allowing him to continue using it from 21 March  2014.
Mr P appears to have  agreed with the adjudicators opinion.  SNC disagreed  and provided  
the following  points:
based on Mr Ps disposable  income he had a sufficient amount to cover  the monthly 
repayments and 
the credit  limit increases were not as a result  of changes in Mr Ps circumstances, but 
as a result of SNCs increasing  confidence  in the management of his account. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
To begin with, Mr P seems to have  accepted  our adjudicators opinion that SNC wasnt  
wrong to have initially approved his running  credit facility. So, I think  the initial approval of his 
facility is no longer in dispute and so I have no reason  to reach  a finding about this. Instead, 
Ill focus on whether  there was a point  at which I think SNC ought  to have been aware that 
Mr P was having financial difficulties. Like the adjudicator, I do think it was wrong  to have 
allowed him to continue drawing down on the account from 21 March 2014. For this reason, 
Ill explain  below how the way he was using the account indicated  he wasnt using it in a 
sustainable manner.   
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr P was given his Clear  Account facility
Ref: DRN98194132Firstly, under the provisions outlined  in the Office  of Fair Tradings  (OFT)  guidance on 
Irresponsible Lending (the relevant regulation at the time). General Principles of Fair 
Business Practice 2.2 says a lender must:   
monitor  the borrowers  repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty
When Mr P was granted a £100 credit  limit, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC to have 
believed that Mr P would  repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time, 
which could result in monthly repayments of around  £20. After all, this is what was expected,  
and the way this facility  was designed. But if Mr P wasnt  using the facility  as intended, this 
could indicate  to SNC that he was having  wider financial problems.
In order to see whether  I think  it was fair allow Mr P to continue to drawdown,  Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments, and then when Mr P returned  for further borrowing. Ive also considered  the 
information about Mr Ps circumstances which  SNC was aware of before and during the 
borrowing relationship.  
Mr Ps borrowing  history,  quite early  on, in my view, shows that he wasnt using the account 
as intended  and not repaying the loan balances over a reasonable period of time. He 
generally needed to re-borrow what he repaid within a few days, drawing up to his maximum 
credit limit. This pattern indicated that he'd become dependent on the facility  and couldn't  
afford the repayments,  therefore having to borrow again straight after theyd been  made.  I 
think this suggests  Mr P mayve been  experiencing wider financial issues.
Looking at Mr Ps circumstances in the month  prior to March 2014, SNC  would have  seen 
that Mr P was receiving  a weekly  income.  Whereas at the start of the borrowing relationship 
he was receiving a monthly salary.  On top of the change in pay cycle, there is also a change 
in how Mr P was using the bank account that SNC  had access to and therefore  wouldve 
been aware of. 
By March 2014, as soon as Mr P received  his salary into the account  which  SNC had read-
only access to, he was transferring all of his wages to another account (bar any sum that 
was collected  by SNC). And there  were very few expenses that could be seen within  his 
statements that SNC had access  to. 
From the start of the borrowing relationship, Mr P was initially  making a regular monthly 
transfer and he had some expenses for food, a mobile phone and payments to debt 
collectors. But, by March 2014  the way he was using his bank  account  had changed.  He was 
transferring all of his income  out of the account and appeared  to only have  a payment for a 
mobile phone.
As Mr P was transferring his money  out of his account, this suggested  he more than likely 
had other  expenses elsewhere which  couldnt be seen on his statements. In any event, the 
transfers of his account couldnt go unexplained and I think this is something which  SNC  
should have enquired about in further detail. 
Mr P has told us the regular transfers  of £350 that could be seen in his bank statements from 
the beginning of the borrowing relationship was for his rent. But when he started working  for 
a recruitment company,  he was transferring money into his partners account for his living 
Ref: DRN98194133expenses. I think  the information Mr P told us about his circumstances at the time was 
reflected on his bank  statements. So, I dont think what  Mr P told us was unreasonable.
This leads  me to believe  that Mr P was effectively using the account that SNC had access  to 
obtain his salary. Other than his expense  for his mobile phone, any money  that went  into his 
account was transferred  out of the account straightaway.  Ultimately,  this means that SNC  
didnt have a true understanding of Mr Ps actual monthly expenditure or of his 
circumstances. 
In my view, the way Mr P was using  his account  shouldve been enough for SNC to have  
proactively contacted him to arrange  smaller payments as permitted by the agreement  and 
in line with what it would take for the facility  to be cleared within  a reasonable period. Rather  
than continue taking  the full account  balance on a regular weekly  basis  and allowing him to 
re-borrow what he repaid  on the same  date. 
I dont consider it fair, reasonable or proportionate  for SNC to argue that the facility was 
affordable because it could be repaid within a reasonable  period of time when it never 
collected payments  on this basis. And the credit agreement suggests to me that there was 
never any intention  to collect payments on this basis either.
When considering  all of the information  SNC  had available to it about Mr Ps circumstances,  
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think  by 21 March 2014,  it was 
clear that the facility  had become unsustainable.  And that simply collecting the full 
outstanding balance on the account each week, and then allowing Mr P to once again  
borrow the funds  that had been recently  collected, was detrimental  to his financial situation.  
Instead of recognising and addressing this, SNC  merely  increased  his credit limit. This 
meant that it would default to taking even  larger payments from Mr Ps account, thus leaving 
a greater hole in his finances.
Finally, in response to the adjudicator SNC  has referred us to a particular section of the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which came into effect in November 2018. But this 
section of CONC came into effect over four years after the point that the complaint upholds 
from. And, at the point  the facility was approved  and at the point I think  the complaint should 
be upheld from, regulation of this product  lay with the OFT. So I dont think  the section of 
CONC has any relevance to the outcome of this complaint. 
Overall, I think that SNC shouldve proactively  intervened and contacted  Mr P in March 
2014, to arrange for him to repay  what he owed  within a reasonable period of time and stop 
any further borrowing  at that stage. As Mr P went  on to pay extra interest  and charges 
because SNC didnt intervene  as I think that it ought  fairly and reasonably  to have done,  I 
think Mr P has lost out as a result of SNCs actions.
what I think SNC should  do to put things right 
To put things right for Mr P, SNC  should:
refund  any interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ps facility from 21 March  2014 
until the facility  closed.
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date
they were date to the date of settlement*
Ref: DRN98194134remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ps credit file as a result  of not
stopping the facility from 21 March 2014.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9819413