K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the service hes received from Lloyds Bank PLC when it asked him to 
repay his overdraft.
Background
Mr O has a bank account with Lloyds. By mid-2018,  the balance  on his account  exceeded  
his agreed overdraft limit. He spoke to Lloyds in August 2018  and agreed  a three month  
repayment plan.  But Mr O only made the first payment due under this plan. 
He spoke to Lloyds again in November 2018.  A further three month repayment plan of £100 
a month  was agreed. Mr O said he was told that if he kept to this agreement, his credit file 
wouldnt be affected. He called Lloyds again in February 2019  and was told he could keep 
paying £100 each month.  Mr O told us he understood this to mean he was still on a 
repayment plan.  
Mr O told us he received correspondence  from Lloyds in the middle of the following month 
indicating his account had been referred to the banks Collections department. It seems 
Mr O had been given  incorrect information  in February about continuing to pay £100  each 
month. He told us that Lloyds then demanded that he started  paying  £189 each month  to 
clear his overdraft. He wasnt happy with this. Mr O was also unhappy that he hadnt been  
told his account  was with the Collections team or about the impact  on his credit file. 
Lloyds said it had made it clear to Mr O in November  2018 that his credit file would be 
impacted and had also given him details about  the banks Collections process. But it 
accepted it had given him incorrect information  in February  2019.  It offered to pay him £50 
for the inconvenience  this caused. Mr O declined this offer and brought his complaint to us. 
He said hed arranged  his finances on the basis that he would be paying  £100 each month.  
Mr O also said that any increase would be unfair and not based on any form of income and 
expenditure review.  
One of our investigators  looked into this issue. In short, he didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unreasonably by not agreeing to continue to accept £100 a month from Mr O. Our 
investigator said this wouldnt clear the overdraft within the timescale the bank required. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the investigators  opinion. Briefly,  he said it wasnt  fair for Lloyds to 
agree a repayment plan and then disregard it. He was also unhappy  with the late payment 
markers the bank was recording on his credit file. 
As Mr O didnt  agree with our investigators  view, his complaint  has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
 
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done, Ive decided  not to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN94745662But first, Im aware  that Ive summarised  this complaint very briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the crux of the matter 
here: has Lloyds treated  Mr O fairly and reasonably when asking him to repay his overdraft? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O has provided  us with his detailed recollection of what  happened. I also have the banks 
own contact notes. These are contemporaneous notes  that is, they were made at the time 
of the event recorded in the note.  As such, Im entitled to assume  the contact notes are an 
accurate record of what was discussed at the time.  
Ill now turn to Mr Os point about not being aware that his account was with Lloyds 
Collections team. The banks records show that when he spoke to Lloyds in August 2018 
and November 2018 he was transferred through to the Collections team  both times. I accept 
Mr O might not have realised this was the case on the August call. 
But I can see that in November 2018 Mr O and Lloyds talked about how much he could 
afford to pay each month. The bank explained  to him that his offer to pay £100  each month  
meant it would  take longer to clear  his overdraft and that the bank looked to have customers 
out of the Collections department within 12 months.  
Ive also looked  at seven letters Lloyds sent to Mr O between May 2018 and November 
2018. These letters are all headed Collections  Centre. Theyre all signed by the Director of 
Collections and Recoveries. The last of these  letters  included details of the repayment plan 
Mr O had just agreed in November 2018.  So, Im satisfied that Mr O should reasonably have 
known his account was being dealt with by the Collections team.  
I know Mr O is also unhappy about  the information  Lloyds  has been reporting  to the credit 
reference agencies.  He says Lloyds told him in November 2018  that if he kept to his 
repayment plan,  his credit file wouldnt  be affected. But thats  not quite right.  
Lloyds response  to Mr Os complaint explains that he was clearly told several  times  that his 
credit file would  be impacted by the repayment  plan. I can see that Lloyds record  of the 
November 2018  call shows that the bank  told Mr O his credit file would be impacted. Also,  
Ive looked at the letter Lloyds sent to Mr O the day after this call. This sets out the details of 
the agreed repayment plan. It also makes it clear that his credit  file will be affected  while  his 
account is overdrawn. 
As well as this, another five of the letters mentioned above, also clearly state that Mr Os 
credit file could be affected.  Once more, I think that Mr O should  reasonably  be aware  that 
his credit file could be impacted by his account  being overdrawn and by the repayment plan. 
I would also point out that the information Lloyds  reports to the credit  reference agencies 
should be an accurate reflection of how Mr Os account is being conducted. Having checked 
his credit file against his bank account statements from that time, Im satisfied this is the 
case here. 
Ill now turn to the details of Mr Os repayment  plan.  When  he was transferred to Lloyds 
Collections team in August 2018,  the bank went through his income and outgoings. The 
Ref: DRN94745663banks records show that based on the details Mr O provided, while  his outgoings seemed to 
exceed his income  by quite a large  amount,  he was adamant he wanted to set up a payment  
plan for £100  each  month for following three  months. 
While Mr O made the first payment, he didnt make the next two. He told us this was due to 
losing his job. But this conflicts with Lloyds records. These show  that when Mr O spoke the 
banks Collections team in November 2018 to arrange a new repayment plan, he said hed 
been working since January 2018. He said he didnt make the payments due to a lack of 
effort and organisation by him to make  sure hed transferred the necessary money  from 
another of his bank accounts.  
Whatever the actual  reason for the lack of payments, Lloyds noted that three months  earlier 
Mr Os outgoings exceeded his income.  So it went through these details with him again. 
There was a substantial  difference. It seems that Mr O had since moved in with his partner 
and thered been a large reduction in his outgoings. This meant his income now substantially 
exceeded his outgoings. 
I can see from Lloyds records, that despite  this, Mr O didnt want to pay more than £100 a 
month to reduce  his overdraft. The bank explained  that this meant  it would take longer to 
clear and, as above, it looked for customers to be out of Collections within  12 months. 
Mr Os bank statements show me that by paying  £100 a month at this point, it would  have 
taken him more than double  this amount of time to clear his overdraft. 
Nevertheless, Lloyds  agreed  to accept £100 a month for the next three  months, starting in 
December 2018.  But the bank told Mr O that after this, given his large surplus of income 
over outgoings, it would expect him to then increase the amount he was paying each month. 
I think this was a fair and reasonable  stance for Lloyds  to take. 
Mr O told us he then received a text message  in February 2019 asking him to contact  Lloyds 
as a matter of urgency. But thats not quite right. Ive seen the two text messages the bank  
sent him during that month. The first is a reminder to make  sure there was enough money  in 
his account to make the £100  reduction  on his overdraft. The second was an automated 
message telling him his account was near its limit. 
In any event, Mr O did speak  to Lloyds in February 2019. But he spoke to a customer  
services adviser rather than someone  from the Collections  team. Mr O told us the bank 
advised him to set up a standing order to continue making  payments  of £100 a month.  Once 
more, the banks records contradict this. Instead, these show that Mr O told Lloyds he 
wanted to carry  on paying £100  a month and would be setting up a standing order  to do this 
from one of his other bank  accounts.  
Regardless of whatever  was actually said on this call, Lloyds accepts it shouldnt  have 
agreed that Mr O could continue to pay £100 each month. It said sorry for any upset or 
inconvenience he experienced because  of this. The bank also offered to pay him 
compensation of £50, which he refused. 
Ive thought about what should have happened, and how this affected Mr O. He told us that 
he made two monthly payments under the arrangement he agreed  in February. But hes 
mistaken in this. Mr O agreed  a three  month payment plan in November 2018.  This started  
the following  month with the last payment being  made on 15 February 2019. The call with 
the customer adviser took place a few days after this. 
Ref: DRN94745664While Mr O may have  understood that a new repayment plan was agreed on this call, he 
spoke to Lloyds  just over a month  later, shortly after hed made his next payment of £100.  It 
was on this call that he complained. Mr O then discussed the situation with the Complaints 
team around a week later. This means it was only a relatively short period of time before 
Mr O was told hed been given incorrect information  a few weeks  earlier.  
Its clear to me that Mr O should have been  transferred to the Collections team  when he 
called in February 2019. If that had happened, he would have known there  and then that 
Lloyds didnt want to agree a further repayment plan of £100.  This shouldnt have been a 
surprise to Mr O. As above, when he spoke  to the bank in November,  it made it clear  that it 
would expect him to increase the amount of his monthly payment once his current  plan 
ended in February. 
I can appreciate Mr O would have found it frustrating to have been given incorrect  
information. But I can see the bank told him about  this mistake only a few weeks  later.  It said 
sorry and offered him compensation of £50. Im satisfied this is proportionate  to the 
circumstances here.  
Mr O has said its not fair that Lloyds  can agree  a repayment plan and then completely 
disregard it. But thats not what happened here. I accept it was unfortunate that Mr O wasnt  
given the correct information  in February  2019.  But I dont accept that Lloyds agreed a 
formal repayment  plan with him on that call  and, as Ive just said, this mistake was quickly 
corrected. 
Mr O has also said £100 was the most he could afford. But this isnt backed  up by the 
income and expenditure review that Lloyds carried out in November 2019. This showed 
Mr Os disposable income  that is, the excess of his income over his outgoings   was 
much, much  more than £100 a month.  Ive found Lloyds records  to be most  consistent on 
this. So Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for me to rely on them.  
The bank has also clearly  set out its collections process to Mr O. It looks  to assist  a 
customer to bring their account under  control within 12 months. Where this isnt possible, the 
account would normally be formally  defaulted and passed to Lloyds Recoveries  team. 
Mr Os overdraft in February 2019 was close to £2,300. Clearly, his wish to clear it at £100 
meant it would  take nearly two years  to do this. 
Instead, Lloyds  asked him to pay around  £189  each month. This would have cleared his 
overdraft within 12 months.  Given Mr Os apparent  disposable income, I think this was a fair 
and reasonable expectation by Lloyds. 
Mr O has said no income  and expenditure  review was carried out by the bank at this later 
point. But Im satisfied  that he had ample opportunity to tell the bank if his circumstances had 
taken a turn for the worse. The available evidence doesnt show  he did this. 
I would point out that where a customer is in financial difficulty, I would expect the bank to 
treat the customer both positively and sympathetically. Here, I can see Lloyds showed 
considerable forbearance to Mr O over many months. This included  suspending the charges 
on his account  for a number of months.
It also agreed the repayment  plans with him. One of these was for a far lower  amount that 
Mr Os disposable income suggested he could actually afford. Also, as Mr Os situation 
suggested this wasnt necessarily a long term issue, the bank didnt formally default his 
Ref: DRN94745665account or pass it to its Recoveries teams. So, Im satisfied Lloyds did treat Mr O positively  
and sympathetically. 
For completeness, I know Mr O is unhappy  that when he originally spoke to the Complaints 
team, it hadnt been able to locate  his call with the customer service  adviser  in February  
2019. Mr O seems to think the bank  was denying this call took place. But as above, the bank  
has accepted  this call happened and that he was given incorrect  information. This is why its 
offered him £50 in compensation. 
Also, the bank  explained to Mr O that it couldnt locate this call at first because hed made it 
from a different contact  phone number to the one it had for him. I accept this explanation. In 
my experience, the vast majority of calls are traced by searching for the phone number the 
call was made from or to. So Im not at all surprised that Lloyds couldnt locate this call 
straight away and link it to Mr O if he made  it from a phone number that the bank  didnt have 
on its records for him. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Mr O should reasonably have  been aware that his account was 
being dealt with by the Collections  team  and that his credit  file could be affected.  Im also 
satisfied that Lloyds has dealt with him positively and sympathetically.  I think its expectation 
that Mr O clear his overdraft within 12 months  was reasonable in the circumstances here. 
Also, as above,  Im satisfied that the £50 Lloyds offered for giving Mr O incorrect information  
is proportionate to any upset and inconvenience he was caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im not asking Lloyds Bank PLC to do, 
or pay, more than the £50 it previously  offered Mr O. I leave it him to decide if he now wants  
to accept that offer. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9474566