K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of his claim under his legal 
expenses and rent guarantee policy. 
background
Mr M has a property  which  he rents  out. He took out a policy  which provides insurance for 
certain legal  expenses and includes a rent guarantee to cover  his rental property.  The policy 
is provided by Great  Lakes.
Around July 2017 Mr Ms tenant stopped paying  the rent. Mr M made a claim under his 
policy to pursue the outstanding rent, evict the tenant from the property and to make use of 
the rent guarantee. 
Great Lakes provided  assistance for the eviction  but the claim to pursue the rental arrears 
was declined due to a lack of prospects of success.  The claim under the rent guarantee 
section was also declined.  
Mr M was unhappy that the claim under the rent guarantee section had been declined  and 
complained. A Section  21 letter is a notice  which a landlord must give to their tenant to begin  
the process to take possession of the property. Great  Lakes explained that the Section 21 
letter that had been sent to the tenant  by the letting agent said no further rent was due. They 
say this prejudices both Mr Ms and their position and have relied  on one of the policy  terms 
to decline the claim.  
Being unhappy with this response Mr M referred his complaint  to our service. One of our 
investigators thought  it should be upheld. She concluded  the policy term hadnt been fairly  
applied and recommended that Great Lakes should  reassess the claim for rent guarantee 
against the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. And if the claim is paid, 8% simple 
interest should be added from the date the claim was originally  declined  until the date of 
settlement. 
Great Lakes didnt accept  this and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They 
accepted Mr M didnt send the letter himself, but they maintained he is responsible for it 
which is the key point under the terms of the policy. 
Mr M also made several further points to be considered:
The prejudicial term should not impact  on the rent guarantee section of the policy. 
The only requirements  listed  are that an insured event has taken place.
The more recent letters from the letting agent (which clarified the error) should be 
considered, meaning no prejudice  has been  caused.  
The claim handler didnt let him know how important an accurate forwarding address 
was, which has resulted in his claim being  declined. 
The terms and conditions are misleading  which means the policy has been  mis-sold. 
He has submitted negative online reviews about the service from the claim handlers 
to support his position that they have looked  for reasons to decline the claim.
On 15 November 2018 I issued a provisional  decision  in which  I said:
Ref: DRN96578012Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ms policy includes cover for the legal  costs of taking legal action against his tenant and 
cover for rent arrears. But as with most  insurance policies, there are conditions and limits on 
the cover  provided.  In particular, the policy says there is no cover; 
Where You are responsible for anything which in Our reasonable opinion prejudices your 
complaint. Further specific definition of you is given as The person or company who has 
paid the premium and is named in the schedule as the insured person.
Mr M says this term only relates to his claim for assistance with the recovery  of rental  
arrears. And also that under the policy there  is no requirement for proceedings to be going 
ahead  just that an insured event has occurred. 
I agree  with Mr M that there  have  been  two insured events within  the context of his policy   
recovery of rental arrears and eviction.  But the exclusion in question  is under the heading  
What this insurance does  not cover and doesnt specify which  section. So I dont  think  it can 
be reasonably  interpreted to imply that it only applies to one particular section of the 
insurance, rather than the policy as a whole. 
I also understand the point Mr M makes that the prejudicial letter  hasnt impacted on the rent 
guarantee, but I dont agree. If Great Lakes were to pay Mr Ms claim under the rent 
guarantee section,  I think its likely they would look to recover this money from the tenant.  So 
if something Mr M is responsible for has prejudiced that  I dont think  its unfair for them  to 
decline the rent guarantee claim for that reason.  
Great Lakes say that the letter sent to the tenant giving the Section 21 notice has caused 
prejudice  they point  to the opinion of a solicitor to support this. Ive read the letter which 
says No further rental payments for the tenancy are due.  Its accepted that including this 
phrase was a mistake.  
Great Lakes asked a solicitor to assess Mr Ms claim and the solicitor said the letter  was 
potentially problematic in terms  of rent/costs recovery as this statement could be construed 
as having absolved the tenant from having  to pay any further  rent.  
As Great Lakes themselves arent  legal experts, I think  its fair for them  to rely on suitably 
qualified legal advice  as the basis for their decisions, unless that advice is obviously wrong. I 
dont think Great Lakes  are being  unreasonable in concluding that the content of the letter  
has caused prejudice  based  on the solicitors opinion.  Mr M says he thinks the follow up 
letters sent by the letting  agent have impacted on the extent to which prejudice has been  
caused. But I still think its fair for Great Lakes to rely on the solicitors opinion.  If Mr M were 
to provide a conflicting legal opinion, I would expect  Great Lakes to reconsider the claim and 
also to consider reimbursing the reasonable cost of obtaining that opinion.  
I accept that Great Lakes opinion that the letter has caused prejudice is reasonable. But 
under the terms  of the policy, for the exclusion to apply,  this must be something that Mr M 
(as the policyholder)  is responsible for. Ive thought carefully about this point as it is key in 
deciding whether or not the exclusion has been fairly applied.  
Ref: DRN96578013The letter itself was sent by the letting agent, not Mr M  but it was sent on his behalf as the 
landlord. Great Lakes  say Mr M is responsible for this as the letting agent is acting on his 
instructions and Im inclined to agree.  
Ultimately the dispute is between  Mr M and his tenant. Mr M might have employed  the letting 
agent to act on his behalf,  but I still think he maintains overall responsibility. I understand 
why, in employing professionals to assist him, Mr M thinks  he should reasonably be able to 
expect that things will be handled correctly. But Im only able to comment  on the actions of 
the insurer, Great Lakes.  If Mr M is unhappy about the actions of the letting agent, that isnt 
something our service is able to assist with. 
I accept the prejudice  wasnt  caused  as a result  of anything that Mr M himself did. But I do 
still think that it was caused by something  he was responsible for. It follows  that I dont think  
Great Lakes have acted  outside the policy terms or unfairly. 
Mr M thinks the claim handler shouldve told him how important  it was to get an accurate 
forwarding address.  This is particularly  important to him as the lack of prospects  in relation to 
pursuing the rental arrears was largely due to no longer being able to trace the tenant. Ive 
thought about this point  but I dont think  Great Lakes  are responsible for advising Mr M how 
to conduct his business affairs. So I dont  think  they were wrong for not doing  so. 
Ive seen the online reviews of Great  Lakes  that Mr M has submitted. But I can only consider  
the evidence relating  specifically to this complaint. So Ive not taken them into consideration 
for that reason. 
Ive also noted  Mr Ms point about  the policy potentially having  been mis-sold. But Great  
Lakes are the underwriter  of the insurance and to the best of my knowledge they didnt  sell 
the policy. So any complaint about  the sale of the policy would  need  to be directed towards  
the business who did sell the policy. So for that reason I cant comment  on any potential mis-
sale in this decision.
Great Lakes responded and said they agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mr M responded and made some further points, in particular he highlighted that the term 
about prejudice being caused was under a sub heading of legal  expenses  incurred and 
didnt explicitly apply  to the rent guarantee. Based on this I reconsidered what Id said in my 
provisional decision. 
I contacted both sides and let them know I now accepted  that the term in question  should 
only apply to legal expenses. But on balance, I still thought  Great Lakes decision to decline 
the rent guarantee claim was fair. As their ability to recover any costs  they might  settle  with 
Mr M had been prejudiced  by actions he was responsible for. 
I again gave both parties a further opportunity to comment. Great  Lakes agreed with my 
findings and highlighted that they would reconsider the claim under the rent guarantee in the 
event that the tenant doesnt raise  the letter in question as a defence. 
Mr M again responded to raise some  further  points which Ill address below. Now both sides 
have had the chance to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
Ref: DRN96578014my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M says that the term about causing prejudice doesnt specifically apply to the rent 
guarantee and that there is no mention within of Great  Lakes taking action to recover 
payments made to him from the tenant.  So on this basis; he thinks his claim should be paid.
Ive thought carefully about this, but I still dont think Great Lakes decision is unfair. There is 
a policy  term which allows Great Lakes to Start  legal action to get back from anyone  else 
any payments that have  already been  made. So Great Lakes are entitled  to attempt to 
recover anything they pay Mr M under the rent guarantee from the tenant. And I remain of 
the opinion that if something Mr M is responsible for has prejudiced  that, its fair for Great  
Lakes to decline the claim for that reason.  
Mr M says that tenancy agreements are legally binding documents  whereas covering letters 
arent. He also points out that the tenant received several reminders  about  rent arrears  
which were sent after the cover  letter  in question and that these werent challenged. So he 
questions whether prejudice  has been  caused. But Great Lakes have provided a legal 
opinion which says the letter has caused  prejudice.  And I think  a solicitor  is best placed  to 
know whether or not prejudice has been  caused. So in the absence  of a conflicting legal 
opinion, I still think Great Lakes decision to decline the claim is fair. 
I understand Mr M still contests whether or not he is responsible  for the letter in question. 
But for the reasons I outlined above, I think he is. As I mentioned in my provisional decision,  
if Mr M were to provide  a conflicting legal opinion  which states  that prejudice hasnt been  
caused, Id expect Great Lakes to look again at the claim. 
I understand that more recently Great Lakes  have been assisting Mr M by writing again  to 
the tenant at a new address. Great Lakes  have explained that if they are able to make  
contact with the tenant and he doesnt raise  a defence that no rent is payable, they will 
reconsider the claim for the rent guarantee. I think this is fair.  
So looking  at the complaint as a whole, Great Lakes are still trying  to assist Mr M in pursuing 
the outstanding rental  arrears. This isnt something  theyre necessarily obliged  to do under 
the terms of the policy, as the exclusion about prejudice does refer to legal expenses.  And 
theyve said they will give further consideration to the rent guarantee claim if the tenant  is 
contacted and doesnt raise the letter in question  as a defence. So whilst I can understand 
Mr Ms frustrations,  I dont  think Great Lakes have acted unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN96578015Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9657801