K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Allianz  Insurance Plc have unreasonably not paid their 
claim in full under their pet policy. 
background
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs Bs dog was diagnosed with diabetes and had treatment, which  
Allianz paid in the region  of £2,700.  In September 2018, Mr and Mrs Bs dog then developed 
cataracts. They asked  Allianz if the operation to remove the cataracts would be covered and 
they said that Allianz said it would.
However, when Mr and Mrs B made their claim, Allianz decided the cataracts were most 
likely caused  from their dogs diabetes.  As Mr and Mrs B had the Essential plan policy, this 
covered an injury or illness for 12 months, up to a maximum  benefit  of £3,000,  whichever 
was reached first. So Allianz  said as the two conditions were related, it would only pay the 
cataract claim up to the £3,000 limit. So it made a payment  of a little over £200 instead of the 
full claim amount of over £3,000, given the amount of the previous claim for diabetes back  in 
April.
Mr and Mrs B complained. Allianz  wouldnt change its stance but did agree some  of the 
information it gave  Mr and Mrs B was incorrect, so it offered to pay them  £40 compensation, 
which they refused.
So Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. The investigator was ultimately  of the view 
that the evidence wasnt clear  enough  that the cataracts were caused by the diabetes, so 
she suggested Allianz should  pay Mr and Mrs B 50% of the vet costs.  
Allianz didnt agree  so Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 July. I said the following:
I appreciate and understand that my present thoughts on this case will disappoint Mr 
and Mrs B. However my role and the role of this service  is to assess whether  Allianz  
did anything wrong  on the basis of the available evidence and the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides cover for any illness or injury up to a maximum of 
£3,000 or for 12 months whichever occurs first provided the premiums  are paid the 
policy is renewed. They had a claim for treatment for diabetes in April 2018 of around  
£2,700. This meant they only had around £300 left for any further claim for anything 
to do with diabetes  on their policy. 
Mr and Mrs Bs own vet said it was potentially possible  that their dogs cataracts  were  
brought on by his diabetes, but that she couldnt  be sure of this and there were 
several other  causes  of cataracts. Allianz  internal vet was of the view it was most 
likely that the cataracts were caused by the diabetes, because their dog had fairly 
unstable diabetes since his initial  diagnosis of it some months earlier.
Following the investigators first view where  she thought Allianz  should  pay Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim as a separate claim, Allianz contacted the referral  specialist  
ophthalmologists vet practice who did their dogs cataract operation. These  vets 
Ref: DRN92148002came back  saying they thought the cataract  formation was due to the diabetes.  Mr 
and Mrs B said the person who signed this letter wasnt the vet who actually operated  
on their dog and they said they would ask him for his opinion. Sadly, that vet has 
since left the practice so therefore there is no further information from him.
Its fairly  well established  in medical terms, that developing diabetes can then cause 
cataracts to develop, so I dont consider  Allianz  initial view that this had possibly 
occurred here, to be unreasonable. Mr and Mrs Bs own vet also couldnt say the 
cataracts were not caused by the diabetes and also she couldnt  point to any other 
specific issues, which might have caused them given the dogs history. Crucially in 
my view however, the specialist vet practice was in no doubt their dogs  cataracts 
were caused  by the diabetes which tallies with what Allianz internal vets thoughts 
were too. I appreciate  the person who wrote this letter wasnt the person  who 
operated on their dog, but I think its very unlikely the vet who did do the operation 
would have disagreed with their colleague on this, given they both belonged to this 
specialist ophthalmologist vet practice. 
So I think on balance that there isnt any evidence  to show  Mr and Mrs Bs dog 
developed cataracts  for any other reason  than his diabetes. Ive also listened to the 
call recording  and whilst its clear cataracts  would  be covered I do think proper 
warning was given  that if it was related  to the diabetes the costs would come under 
that claim.   
I also consider Allianz offer to pay £40 compensation  when one of its advisers  
wrongly said their dogs vet history  showed  the link between the two (when obviously 
it wasnt that clear at the time)  was reasonable.
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor Allianz provided  any further information.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis neither  party had anything further  to say, I see no reason to depart  from my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9214800