K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about the handling  and settlement of her water  leak clam by her 
home insurer, esure Insurance Limited (Esure).
background
Mrs A noticed water  damage  in November 2017. A leak investigation took place in 
December 2017,  the results  of which, along  with a report  showing estimated cost of repair, 
were sent to Esure.  The report said there had been  two leaks in the kitchen  at the rear and 
the whole  of the ground floor (dining  room, study,  hall and lounge) had been affected, 
including the kitchen. The estimate  suggested £6,600 to repair.
Esure didnt think the whole of the ground floor had been affected  by the leaks  from the 
kitchen. It felt it would  cost £436.74  to repair the kitchen. But it said its loss adjuster would 
complete a site visit and review matters. It said if this changed its position then it would 
consider paying  compensation  for any delay. 
Following the site visit the loss adjuster said he was satisfied the damage in the front of the 
house was unrelated. But he was concerned  there might be another leak so asked Mrs A, 
who was being  represented by a loss assessor, Ill call P, to check for further leaks and to 
provide a further estimate for repair. That request was made  in May 2018. 
A further  leak report was completed in late June 2017  none were  found but rubble bridging 
the sub-floor and joists was discovered.  A revised  estimate was submitted  in August 2018  
reinstating the whole  of the ground floor would cost £28,841. Esure noted that P was still 
disputing the extent of liability for repairs. Esure said it would appoint a surveyor.  
The surveyor didnt attend until 31 October 2018. He found that the water  leaks in the 
kitchen had likely only damaged the kitchen  and dining room, that the damage  in the hall and 
lounge was likely unrelated. He noted that the dining room, off the kitchen had a suspended 
timber floor,  whereas the kitchen had a solid concrete floor, and that it seemed unlikely that 
the leak had resulted in a great volume  of water escaping. Even if it had, he said, it would 
likely have drained into the sub-floor under the dining room,  rather than tracking through the 
dining room and into the other  rooms.  He noted  damage  to the flooring in the lounge 
presented differently to that in the dining room. The latter  likely  being related to the water 
leak, the former more  probably due to poor fitting.  He estimated that £8,000  £10,000 would 
be reasonable to reinstate the water leak damage.  
In December 2018 Esure offered Mrs A £16,666.66, plus VAT (making  a total of £20,000) to 
settle the claim for the damage at the rear of the property only. Mrs A took this as an interim 
payment as she was still convinced  UKI should be settling  for damage at the front of the 
property too. 
On 18 December 2018 UKI issued a final response. It said there may have been delays in 
arranging the surveyors visit, and it would pay £200 directly  to Mrs As account to make  up 
for this.
In March 2019 Esure confirmed that its decision to settle the claim as it had, had followed 
receipt of the surveyors report. It noted  it hadnt  seen any report  submitted  by P to contradict  
this. It said if such was forthcoming it would consider it.
Ref: DRN92317642P, on behalf of Mrs A, complained to this service. Our investigator considered the evidence 
and noted that no report had been provided  to contradict the surveyors findings. He felt 
Esure had treated Mrs A fairly and reasonably. P said it would consider obtaining  a report 
but would  like an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No report has been provided that might give me cause  to question the findings of the 
surveyor. Ive considered what the surveyor  said. I find his report coherent, reasoned  and 
persuasive. In the absence of any other  expert assessment to contradict  his findings Ive no 
reason to think Esures claim decision,  based on his findings, is unfair or unreasonable  in 
any way. In saying  that I also note that whilst the surveyor  said the repair  should cost around 
£10,000, Esures ultimate settlement to Mrs A was for £20,000. 
I know this claim  went on for a long time. But Im not persuaded that Esure caused any 
avoidable delays.  Esure has accepted  that the delay  in the surveyor  attending might have 
been caused by the surveyor and its paid £200 compensation as a result.  I think thats fair. 
I dont see any other  poor claim  handling by Esure that would make me think  it should 
compensate Mrs A any further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9231764