K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt mark his joint mortgage current account 
with a dispute marker. The other  account  holder  then withdrew  £11,860 from the account 
without his knowledge or consent.
background 
On 23 April 2019 I issued  a provisional decision saying that subject to any further comments  
or evidence  from Mr H or Barclays, I intended  to uphold this complaint. I outlined the 
background of Mr Hs complaint as follows:
In March 2018 Mr H contacted  Barclays  to explain the position between  him and the other 
account holder.  He thought Barclays had applied a freeze to the joint mortgage current 
account but it told him that in June  2018 the other  account holder had drawn  down 
£11,860.00 from the account. This led to interest  charges  of £376.97.  Mr H wants  Barclays 
to repay  to him the full amount of the drawdown and the interest  charges.
Barclays accepted  itd made a mistake. It paid Mr H £500 towards the legal costs  of his 
dispute, and £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. But it didnt think  it should pay him 
any more because it could see hed come to an arrangement  with the other  account holder  
whod said she would  return  £6,000 to him.
Our investigator thought that the £500 Barclays had paid Mr H towards  legal costs  and the 
£200 for his distress and inconvenience  was fair and reasonable. And a Consent Order had 
dealt with the funds that had been drawn  down. But he thought Barclays should pay Mr H 
half the interest itd charged. He thought  that would put Mr H back  into the position he 
wouldve been in had Barclays not made any mistake.
Barclays didnt agree. It said that £11,560  had been  drawn down, and that when the interest 
is added  to that the total is £11,936.97. So Mr H has already received more  than half that 
figure.
Mr H didnt agree either. He said the sum Barclays has paid doesnt reflect the level of the 
mistakes itd made and the impact theyve had on him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings based on the evidence available at the time were as follows:
Mr Hs complaint is that Barclays wont refund him the full amount of funds (plus  additional  
interest) his joint account holder drew  down from their joint mortgage current  account. The 
account had a nil reserve at the beginning  of the mortgage. But as the mortgage balance  
reduced, the mortgage current account limited increased. So at the time of this draw  down 
the reserve or overdraft  limit was £11,860.  And this was the amount  the other joint account  
holder drew  down. Barclays subsequently added interest of £376.97.
Ref: DRN93106712Lawyers then became  involved, and I can see from a letter written by Mr Hs legal 
representative that both parties; have  reached an agreement between themselves in full 
resolution of financial  matters between them. And an agreement was reached that the way 
they will deal with the lump sum drawn  down from the mortgage current  account would be 
by Mr H receiving a further credit of £6,000. 
A Consent Order  was thereafter drawn up by the court  in full and final settlement  of all 
claims. The Order dealt with the draw down in this way:
And upon it being agreed  by the parties that the Petitioner drew down monies in excess  
of £11,000 from the mortgage over the former  matrimonial home and the parties agreeing 
that the Respondent  will receive the sum of £6,000 in compensation for this drawdown which 
was retained by the Petitioner 
Mr H now wants  Barclays to return to him the other half of the sum the joint account holder 
drew down, plus the interest. And I sympathise with him to some extent because he tried to 
prevent this from happening in the first place. 
Barclays position is that Mr H has already  received more than half the funds that were 
drawn down, and the subsequent interest. So hes not out of pocket. But it seems  to have 
made a mistake about the amount of money  the other party drew down which  was £11,860.  
This draw down left a negative balance of £11,855.61 in the mortgage current account. So 
when the mortgage was redeemed there  was a negative  balance of £11,956.39,  but prior to 
that Mr H paid £276.69 into the account  to reduce the balance. 
And our rules  say that we may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if the 
subject matter of the complaint has been the subject of court proceedings where  there has 
been a decision  on the merits. 
But it seems  to me that the court didnt actually  make  a decision on the merits because  the 
parties came to an agreement between  themselves.  So I dont think  we are stopped from 
making any decision or award on the merits of Mr Hs complaint. 
However, we do expect a consumer  to mitigate his or her loss. And Mr H had an opportunity  
to do that before the court drew up the Consent Order. He agreed to accept £6,000 
compensation for the draw  down at that stage. So I dont  think  he can come back to Barclays  
now and ask for the other £6,000. 
However, it doesnt look as though any allowance was made in the Consent Order for the 
interest payments  Mr H made before the mortgage was redeemed. Those are payments he 
wouldnt have had to make if Barclays had followed his instructions. So I think its fair and 
reasonable that it should now refund him the £276.69.
Barclays now tells me that only £100 of the £276.69 was transferred from Mr Hs account. 
The remaining  £176.69  was transferred from the other account  holders  sole account. Our 
investigator asked Mr H about this and he said hed given the money to the other  account  
holder and gave  the example of continuing to pay the mortgage  on the property.
I know Mr H will be disappointed when I say I dont think I can take that into account as that 
is a separate issue which was dealt with by the court.
Ref: DRN93106713Barclays has accepted  it made a mistake which led to the joint account holder being able to 
draw down this money. Its paid Mr H a total of £700  compensation, which I think  is fair and 
reasonable. But for the reasons Ive given above I think  it should now pay him an additional  
£100 representing the additional interest  he paid.  It wouldnt  be fair to ask it to give Mr H 
back the full amount drawn down, for the reasons  Ive given, and so I wont  be doing that. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Barclays  Bank  UK PLC must 
pay Mr H an additional £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9310671