K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained Ikano Bank AB (publ), is holding him liable for two loans he didnt 
apply for in 2017.
background
In 2018 after his lodger  moved out, Mr M reviewed his credit record  and noticed  two loans of 
£9,400 and £5,500  had been  taken  out in his name.  He got in touch with Ikano Bank who the 
loans were with to tell them hed never taken out these loans with them. 
Ikano Bank  confirmed they felt Mr M had taken out these loans. The funds had certainly  been  
paid into his bank  account and hed then sent some  of the funds to a third party.  They continued 
to hold Mr M liable  for the loans. Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
He confirmed to us his lodger had told him he was being paid for a car hed sold. Hed asked 
Mr M whether the money could be paid into Mr Ms account, which he agreed. Mr M then 
sent on the money to his lodger, minus the rent owed to him. After his lodger moved out, he 
left stuff at Mr Ms including two different driving licences.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. This included letters Mr M had received from two 
credit card companies and a mobile phone provider  confirming theyd received fraudulent 
applications in his name. There were  also letters addressed to his lodger being sent to 
Mr Ms address about unpaid accounts.  
Overall our adjudicator believed the loss had only occurred when Mr M had transferred the 
funds to his lodger so didnt think it would be fair Ikano Bank couldnt require him to repay 
the debt. This had now been sold to a third party and Mr M was increasingly  concerned  at 
the difficult position he was in.
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome as hed been a victim of fraud and hadnt had any 
benefit of the money. Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 November 2019. I upheld the complaint as I felt 
Mr M hadnt applied  for the loans Ikano Bank were asking him to repay.
Mr M accepted this outcome. By the deadline Ikano Bank hadnt replied. I now have all I 
need to complete my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  the same  
conclusion as I came to in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Firstly Ive looked at the evidence  of the original application  made  in Mr Ms name. The email  
and phone details  dont match the ones Mr M has used in his complaint to us. And Ikano 
Banks own records accept this.
Ref: DRN93915722I can see, however,  that the bank  account details are Mr Ms. So whoever made these 
applications anticipated being able to get the money  from his account. Its certainly true we 
wouldnt ask a loan company to stop pursuing someone if theyd had the benefit of the 
money but there is no evidence this is what happened here.
Mr Ms evidence  is about what his lodger had told him. He had no reason  to disbelieve  him 
until the lodger  moved out. It was only then he realised thered been other credit 
applications, as well as the two Ikano  loans. No other company appears to be pursuing Mr M 
for repayment of other contracts.
Ive seen Mr Ms bank statements for the relevant period in 2017-2018 covering the loan 
payments in and payments out.  
Mr M wasnt carrying out a detailed check of his bank accounts so wouldnt have noticed or 
queried funds being  received from Ikano Bank. This unfortunately doesnt make  Mr M that 
unusual. Many people  dont check their statements carefully, but may review their overall 
balance. As Mr M was expecting money  in from a third party  and was paying  this out to his 
lodger, he wouldnt  necessarily have noticed  where  the money was coming from.
Ive also seen the one payment Ikano Bank collected from Mr Ms account on 29 September  
2017. At the same time Mr M received a payment of £197.03 (the same  amount) from his 
lodger. Im not surprised Mr M didnt notice this payment as his balance didnt change.
Overall Im not surprised  Mr M didnt raise issues with Ikano Bank until he discovered all the 
other odd things that had happened  more than six months later.
When Mr M contacted Ikano Bank, they noticed his email address and mobile phone number 
was different to those  on the applications.  Their own notes state:
Although there is a possibility that this is a case of impersonation
And at the time they got the initial call from the person pretending to be Mr M
Possibly sounds younger than age on application, but not to extent that suspicion would  
arise
They were  also aware a third application  was made in Mr Ms name  after August 2017. They 
turned this application down. At this time they noted the application  details matched details 
which the fraud industry database was also alerting them to. So I can only suspect they 
always knew something dodgy was going on.
They felt Mr M knew what  was going on but I disagree  with them.
Its difficult to come  to any other  conclusion  than Mr M didnt take out the loans  with Ikano 
Bank. I say this because:
The applications were made  with some details that werent his;
The voice of the person Ikano Bank spoke to when setting up the loan is more  than 
likely not Mr Ms (they  admitted this too);
Around this time Mr M was a victim  of someone using his details in other ways;
Ikano Bank knew that there were fraud advisory  markers against Mr Ms lodger and a 
number of defaults as well; and
Ref: DRN93915723Mr Ms own evidence  over the past 18 months has been  consistent and persuasive.
What Ikano Bank seems  to be doing  is making a personal claim against Mr M because  in 
their opinion Mr M got some kind of benefit  from the funds which were credited to his 
account. Im afraid I dont  agree  that is fair or reasonable. Firstly  Ikano Bank has no 
contractual relationship with Mr M as he didnt  take out the loans. I believe Mr M had no 
knowledge of the loans  or that any funds from Ikano Bank had been credited to his account. 
Any funds Mr M did get (£300 from the £9,400 loan and £360  from the £5,500 loan) were 
what he was due from his lodger as rental  income.
It is plain  to me that if Ikano Bank wish to get their money back, they should  direct that claim 
towards the person who actually applied for the loans or who ultimately received the funds. 
That is of course a matter  for them to consider. In any event as far as this complaint is 
concerned I am intending to uphold it because  Ikano Bank  has not treated Mr M fairly.
I am in no doubt from the evidence Mr M didnt use or benefit  from the money. Therefore it 
isnt fair for Ikano Bank to ask him to repay  this. I will now be instructing  Ikano  Bank to put 
things right.  
As Mr M did  to all intents and purposes  get £660  from these loans, or as he thought his 
lodger, I did consider whether he should  repay those amounts to Ikano  Bank. But in light of 
the time Mr M has spent  trying to get Ikano Bank  to put things right,  I would always  be 
awarding him compensation for the distress  caused. So Ive taken this into account when 
deciding no further  compensation  should be paid to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Ikano Bank AB (publ) to:
Stop pursuing  Mr M for the loans he didnt apply for;
Make sure the third party they sold these debts  to stops taking any action against Mr M; and
Remove any data about these  loans from Mr Ms credit record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9391572