K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that R. Raphael & Sons Plc (Raphael) repossessed  a caravan he financed  
through a hire purchase agreement and unfairly  defaulted the account.  
Both Raphael and Mr C have been represented  by third parties in this case.  To keep things  
simple when I refer to Raphael or Mr C this includes their respective representatives. 
background
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
provisional decision of 6 February  2019. A copy of that provisional decision is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision,  in summary he said:
Raphael breached the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 by selling the caravan  to a third 
party.
The terms and conditions of the agreement dont  allow for Raphael to take payment  
from a third party and it breached the Data Protection Act by discussing the account 
with the park without  his authority. 
He is not allowed  to share the paperwork or court documents in relation to his dispute  
with the park.
Raphael had written  off the outstanding  balance for the account and told Mr C the 
caravan was his. So the £8,285.88  that the park paid and was taken into account in 
the court documents is irrelevant.
The payments  towards  the agreement were taken from his representatives account 
so I should be able to consider any loss suffered by him too.
If Raphael had done more, the situation with the park wouldnt have got to the point it 
did. 
Raphael didnt respond to my provisional decision 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Which includes all of Mr Cs submissions 
following my provisional decision,  having  done so, I still think Mr Cs complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld.
I have taken into account the relevant law. But Ive explained that I dont think  Raphael did 
technically repossess  the caravan and Mr Cs submissions dont change  my mind  in this 
respect. I agree with Mr Cs point  that Raphael shouldnt have told him the account balance 
had been written off when  it had been settled by the park.  But I dont think  this meant  that 
Raphael had repossessed the caravan, and it did explain what  had actually  happened  
shortly afterwards. 
I dont think the terms and conditions of the account make provision for Raphael  to accept 
payment from a third party and it should  have asked  Mr C if he was happy for this to happen 
before accepting payment from the park.  But I dont  think it sold the caravan to the park but 
accepted a payment which cleared Mr Cs outstanding  balance  on the account.  It left Mr C 
with nothing further to pay and he became the owner of the caravan.  So I dont think  this 
Ref: DRN92278172action on its own had a detrimental impact on him. But rather  it was the park subsequently 
taking the caravan. 
In some of the phone calls it had with Mr C, Raphael explained  it would need  to get in 
contact with the park to try and resolve his concerns. I dont  think  this is unusual  and Mr C 
appeared quite  happy  for it to do so. So I dont think Raphael made a mistake in discussing 
the matter with the park. 
Mr C is claiming  that because of what happened  with the caravan Raphael should  pay 
compensation. But as I have  already explained,  he appears to have been party  to a 
significant financial settlement with the park in relation to this matter. So I think  the 
documentation about the agreement  Mr C reached  with the park is relevant and hes been 
given the opportunity to submit it himself  or provide this service with his authority to ask the 
park to share it. Hes provided some  of the documentation,  but not everything and I dont see 
why hed only be able to share  some  of it. Without  seeing all the relevant documentation I 
cant be sure what the compensation Mr C has received from the park is for. 
The documentation  I have  seen  explains that it takes account of the £8,285.88 it had paid to 
Raphael to discharge  the outstanding hire purchase  used to purchase the Holiday Home  
and also the sum of £1,000 received by the park for its sale. This suggests  that the park 
taking and selling the caravan was considered as part of Mr Cs agreement  with the park.  
And that this would have contributed to at least some of the compensation he received.
As I have already  said, there is some  uncertainty about exactly  what  the £25,000 payment 
was for. However, for me to say it is fair and reasonable for Raphael to pay Mr C 
compensation for lost possessions or refund his payments towards  the finance, I would want 
to know more about this settlement. From what  I know  about the case it appears likely  that 
the settlement  covers  those amounts he is claiming  against Raphael, including  the payments 
he made toward the cost of the caravan while he was using it, costs  arising from loss of 
personal items from the caravan,  and the overall  impact of this situation on him.  
So in this case, although Raphael could have done  things better I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to tell it to compensate him further.  
Our jurisdiction allows us to look at complaints  brought by eligible complainants.  In this 
instance the eligible complainant is Mr C, he was Raphaels customer and the agreement 
was in his name. The payments towards the account being taken from Mr Cs 
representatives bank  account dont make  him a customer of Raphael and so even if I was 
satisfied hed suffered  a financial  loss because of a mistake by Raphael  I couldnt make any 
award for that loss. 
From what  Ive seen there were  a number of factors  which  led to the breakdown of the 
relationship between Mr C and the park. I dont  think it would be fair to hold Raphael 
responsible for it all. And even  if you could say Raphael made things worse, because I dont 
think Mr C has suffered  a loss (due to his settlement with the park about  the matter)  I dont  
think it would  be fair and reasonable to tell Raphael to pay compensation for this.
I thank Mr C for his further submissions  but they have not changed my mind  about the 
outcome of this complaint. Overall,  for the reasons discussed here and in my provisional  
decision I dont think it is fair and reasonable to tell Raphael  to do anything more.
Ref: DRN92278173my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and make  no award  against R. Raphael & Sons Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Christopher Bick
ombudsman
Provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that R. Raphael & Sons Plc (Raphael) repossessed  a caravan he financed  
through a hire purchase agreement and unfairly  defaulted the account.  
Both Raphael and Mr C have been represented  by third parties in this case.  To keep things  
simple when I refer to Raphael or Mr C this includes their respective representatives. 
Ref: DRN92278174background
Mr C took out a hire purchase agreement to finance a static  caravan in May 2015.   The  cash 
price of the caravan was £14,000;  he paid a £2,000 deposit and financed  the rest through  
the hire purchase  agreement with Raphael. The amount of credit  was £12,000 and the total 
amount payable was £23,280.24.  
The caravan  was situated in a caravan park (the park). Mr C says that the park had agreed 
to fix some problems he noticed  shortly  after he took possession  of the caravan. But this 
wasnt done in a timely manner. He complained saying  the caravan was mis-sold as it wasnt  
as described. The park said that it had completed most of the repairs it had agreed to but 
couldnt finish them all because Mr C was renting the caravan out and it was occupied.  
The relationship between Mr C and the park deteriorated. Mr C complained  about problems 
with the caravan, the ground rent and the parks  overall handling of the situation.  While the 
park said some of the damage had been  caused by Mr Cs guests, he hadnt  been adhering  
to the rules of the site or keeping up with his payments for ground rent and amenities. 
Mr C initially made  Raphael  aware of the issues in September  2016  and followed this up in 
March 2017 when he raised a complaint. He said the repairs  hadnt  been completed in the 
agreed timeframes.  Mr C stopped making  the payments for his agreement  with Raphael and 
at that point had paid around £8,600 towards  it.  Mr C says he was told by Raphael he could 
stop making the payments until the dispute between  him and the park was resolved. But 
Raphael doesnt  agree he was told this
Raphael issued a final response in April 2017 which  said the majority of the repairs had been 
completed and the remainder were in progress. 
The relationship between Mr C and the park ultimately broke down  and he was no longer 
allowed on the site and commenced legal  action against it. 
Mr C says he was sent a default notice in November 2017.  Mr C complained to Raphael  
again, he said he wanted to reject the caravan and for all the money  hed paid under the 
agreement to be returned. 
In January 2018 Raphael  sent Mr C another final response. It confirmed it couldnt 
repossess the caravan without a court order because  Mr C had paid more than one third of 
the amount due under the agreement.  But it said the agreement had been terminated  with 
immediate effect  and the full outstanding  balance  had been written  off. 
The outstanding balance  hadnt  been  written off and actually had been paid by the park. The 
park towed the caravan away and later sold it. 
Mr C complained, he said Raphael needed  a court order to repossess the caravan and didnt 
obtain one. He said that under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) this meant he was 
entitled to a full refund  of what  had been  paid. He also explained there were a number of 
personal possessions  in the caravan when  it was taken, which hadnt been returned. 
Raphael said it hadnt repossessed the caravan as Mr C had become  the owner and it 
wasnt involved with his dispute with the park.  
Unhappy with Raphaels response Mr C brought his complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN92278175Our investigator thought that Raphael  had repossessed the caravan and recommended it 
refund Mr C for all the payments he made under the agreement. 
Mr C accepted her assessment for the most  part but said he thought he should also be paid 
compensation for the personal possessions that were in the caravan. 
Raphael reiterated  it hadnt repossessed the caravan  and its terms and conditions  allowed it 
to accept payment  for the outstanding balance from the park.   It also said that the park had 
bought the caravan from Mr C and this was subject to an agreement  through the courts. 
As neither party accepted the investigators  recommendation the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
After my initial review of the case I spoke with both sides to explain that I thought it important 
that I see all the documentation  relating to the agreement Mr C reached with the park before 
deciding what a fair outcome on this complaint is. 
Raphael was unable  to provide a copy of these documents.  It says the park wont provide 
them or discuss what the agreement entailed for confidentiality reasons. 
Mr C had previously provided  a few pages  of the documentation. After I spoke with him he 
initially said he would provide the rest but then changed his mind.  He says he doesnt think  
the agreement  with the park is relevant to the complaint about Raphael.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Having done so I dont think Raphael 
has treated Mr C fairly, but Im not awarding any compensation for this. Ive explained why in 
more detail below.   
I appreciate Mr Cs representative has been involved in the dispute from the outset. But hes 
not Raphaels customer, Mr C is. So I can only consider what impact the complaint has had 
on Mr C and any financial loss hes incurred as a result. 
Mr C has referred  to the CCA, which states  that if goods are repossessed  without a court  
order when the consumer has paid more than one third of the total price of the goods, then 
the consumer  is entitled to a refund of all the payments they made  towards the agreement. 
Having read through the terms and conditions of the agreement, I cant see they allow  
Raphael to accept  a payment from a third party to settle the agreement. And its final 
response said the balance had been written off when  it had actually  been  paid by the park.  
Not only was the information  in the final response misleading (although Raphael did clarify 
this later) but Raphael was aware that Mr C was in dispute with the park and hadnt 
consulted him to see if he was happy  for the park to pay off the outstanding balance. 
I dont think the caravan  was technically repossessed by Raphael. Because this would have 
meant Raphael  taking possession of the caravan, which isnt what happened.  So I dont 
think that Raphael  has breached the CCA in the way Mr C believes it has. But I think  the 
actions of Raphael  were unfair. And whether it intended to or not these  actions appear  to 
have facilitated  the park taking the caravan against Mr Cs wishes.
Ref: DRN92278176I can see that Mr C took his dispute  with the park to court. The incomplete documentation 
weve been provided doesnt  include the background to the case, the claim particulars  or 
explain everything thats been  considered. But Mr C has provided three  pages,  one of which 
explains that the £25,000 the park agreed  to pay Mr C (and his representative) takes  
account of the £8,285.88 it had paid to Raphael to discharge the outstanding hire purchase 
used to purchase the Holiday Home and also the sum of £1,000 received by the park for its 
sale. Raphael has said the park effectively bought the caravan from Mr C. And the 
documentation Ive seen so far supports this. 
I can understand why Mr C would be unhappy  that the caravan was apparently  taken against 
his wishes. However, it appears that with the intention of drawing a line under this matter he 
(and his representative)  came to an agreement with the park for a payment of £25,000.   And 
although the defendant  in the case was not Raphael, from the documentation weve  been  
provided it appears the subject matter of his complaint against  Raphael has been  taken into 
account in the eventual  full and final settlement with the park.  And when submitting the 
documentation to this service Mr C explained he thought this agreement  demonstrated that 
the caravan had been mis-sold by the park.  
There is some uncertainty about  exactly what all the £25,000 compensation was for. 
However, for me to say it is fair and reasonable for Raphael to pay Mr C compensation for 
lost possessions or refund him payments  to the finance, I would want to know  more about  
this compensation.  Because from what I know about the case it appears  likely that the 
settlement covers those  amounts he is claiming  against Raphael, including  the payments  he 
made toward  the cost of the caravan while he was using it, costs arising from loss of 
personal items from the caravan,  and the overall  impact of this situation on him.  
And even  putting  this aside for a moment,  although Raphael  could  have done  things 
differently, there is still a question mark over how responsible it is for certain things that 
happened between  Mr C and the park. So, with all of this in mind I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to make an award against Raphael and ask it to pay him for financial losses 
he is claiming.
what should be reported on Mr Cs credit file?
In the calls Ive listened  to I havent  heard Raphael tell Mr C that he didnt have to keep up 
with his monthly payments. In the 20 March 2017 call Mr C was told to put all the issues  he 
remained unhappy with in writing and he agreed  to email this information to Raphael.    
Raphael agreed  it would  then liaise with the park to try and get things resolved. But the 
advisor explained that the payment due on 22 March 2017  was still payable and Mr C would 
incur charges if it wasnt paid on time which he accepted. 
In a number of the calls after that Ive heard Raphael explain to Mr C that he was required to 
keep up with his repayments and he could  incur charges if he didnt. It was also reiterated  
that this could impact  his credit file. Mr C showed  he understood this in a call on 
31 March 2017  when he accepted this would have an impact on his credit file but hed be 
holding the park responsible if it did. 
So I do think  Raphael was clear  in explaining to Mr C that hed need  to keep up repayments, 
and not doing so could  impact his credit  file. 
I havent seen  a copy of Mr Cs credit file to confirm whats recorded on there.  But Raphael 
has explained it never issued a default  notice to Mr C. Its also provided evidence  showing 
Ref: DRN92278177that it didnt record  any missed payments on his credit file. Instead it registered his account 
as a query status while the dispute  was ongoing  and as settled from January 2018. Based 
on what Ive seen so far I dont think any of the information its recorded on Mr Cs credit file 
was added incorrectly or is an unfair representation of what  happened.  
my provisional decision
Im not minded  to uphold this complaint.
 
Christopher Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9227817