K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix  Life Assurance  Limited (Phoenix) provided incorrect transfer 
values for his pension  policy.
background
Mr S has a personal pension (a Self Employed  Retirement Plan) that was taken out with 
Pearl Assurance, now Phoenix, on 26 March  1981.
Mr S complained to Phoenix in June 2018.  He said hed been  tracking  the fund value of his 
pension from age 65 to ascertain when he could afford to retire, which would mean winding 
up his business  and selling his business  property. Hed been given the following values:
25 March 2013 £220,736 (age 65)
25 March 2014 £218,561 (age 66)
9 March 2015 £248,825 (age 67)
8 March 2016 £254,345 (age 68)
8 March 2017 £256,660 (age 69)
Based on those figures and his other pensions, he decided he could afford to retire from 
January 2017  and cease  trading in December 2017.  He got an up to date fund value on 23 
March 2017 which showed the fund value was £264,238.  On 22 May 2017 he instructed 
agents to sell his business premises and on 19 June 2017 he accepted  an offer.  
But, on 27 July 2017, Phoenix told him the correct  transfer value was only £167,205. And the 
transfer value  as at 16 April 2018  was £169,431   £94,807 less than the highest (23 March 
2017) valuation. Mr S said that meant retiring  probably wasnt a viable option. But he was no 
longer trading, he had no office premises and his business was being  wound up, so hed lost 
that income source.
He said he knew a guaranteed pension income could be provided but that wasnt how hed 
planned to access  the benefits,  hence his concentration  on the underlying  fund value. Hed 
planned to transfer to another  product  so he could take tax free cash and an income. Hed 
relied on the valuations and hed been  disadvantaged. He wanted  compensation of the 
difference in the values. 
In its letter  dated  1 October 2018  Phoenix  said the annual statements issued from March  
2013 to March 2017 had been incorrect. This was due to a system error which should have 
been identified  much earlier. Phoenix offered Mr S £2,500 for loss of expectation plus a 
further £50 because it had taken over eight weeks to deal with the complaint. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with that. His adviser  responded to Phoenix on Mr Ss behalf  by letter  
dated 14 November  2018. Mr Ss adviser  said that for some five years Phoenix had provided 
Mr S with increasing fund valuations. Hed relied on the valuation  as at 6 March 2016 
(£254,345), when  he decided to wind up his business in January 2017. The 8 March  2017 
valuation (£256,660)  further assured him he could afford to retire. He had every  right to rely 
on the valuations  Phoenix provided. Mr Ss adviser  set out several  loss calculations, ranging 
from £77,350 to £130,040.  
Phoenix replied on 20 February 2019, after having spoken to Mr Ss adviser on 14 February 
2019. Phoenix agreed the wrong transfer value was quoted on the annual statements.  But it 
Ref: DRN97828342said this value wasnt guaranteed (as confirmed  in the notes section of the statements). The 
only guaranteed  figure was the yearly pension. The March 2017  annual statement gave a 
transfer value  of £256,660  but that wasnt guaranteed and it seemed Mr S had already 
started to wind down his business before then. A retirement pack was issued on 27 July 
2017 because  Mr S was coming up to his 70th birthday. It gave the correct  transfer value  of 
£167,205.00 (which again wasnt guaranteed). Mr S didnt query  the figures until 22 
September 2017.
Phoenix appreciated Mr S had based his decision to wind down his business and take his 
retirement benefits using  the figures  Phoenix  had quoted. But there  was no assurance in the 
annual statements to say hed definitely  get the transfer value  quoted. Phoenix didnt think  
Mr S should  have made such an important financial decision unless he was certain hed 
definitely get the figures quoted. Mr S wasnt contractually entitled to the higher amounts. 
Phoenix said its earlier offer was unchanged. But it added that it had delayed  in delaying 
with the advisers  letter  and offered £50 compensation for that. 
Mr S referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked  into what  had happened.  
She issued  her view on 14 October 2019. She agreed Phoenix's mistakes had a serious 
impact and caused considerable distress which meant a high compensation figure of £2,500 
plus the extra £100 for the delays in complaint handling was reasonable. But she couldnt 
say Mr Ss decision  to wind down his business  was based solely on Phoenixs  error. So she 
wasnt going to ask Phoenix to calculate  any financial losses or pay further compensation.
Mr S didnt accept that. The investigator had acknowledged the fund value figures in the 
annual statements were  inflated over a significant length of time and the difference  between 
those and the revised figure (about £97,000) was significant. But, in his opinion, she hadnt  
taken into account  that the incorrect figures  were  corroborated in response to specific 
queries from Mr S on 27 January 2014  and 21 February 2016  and in corrections made  by 
Pearl in 2010.  These  were the only figures he had to assess  the value of his pension and 
plan for retirement.  Even if the values werent guaranteed, he believed Phoenix owed him a 
duty of care not to mislead or give him false expectations. The investigator appeared to 
agree that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr S to expect thered only be a slight variation in 
values. 
Mr S said he didnt  have any input or control over what  had happened and the mistake that 
was apparently made. But it seemed  he had to accept Phoenixs error in full and he wasnt 
able to do anything  about it. Hed suffered significant  loss due to Phoenixs admitted and 
continued mistakes. He cant afford  to fund those losses  from his savings, so hell have to 
seek further advice  and draw on this pension. He added it appeared that Phoenix had 
discussed a compensation figure  of £2,500  with our technical help line. He asked for details 
together with details  of any telephone  calls wed had with his adviser. 
The investigator located two telephone calls. In a call from Mr Ss adviser  the merits of the 
complaint hadnt  been discussed, just time frames. Thered also been a call from Phoenix to 
our technical  help line in which compensation for 'severe trouble and upset was discussed. 
Mr S said his pension fund was almost  £100,000  less than hed consistently been  told and 
his future  pension options are restricted. By the time Phoenix told him the correct figure, hed 
wound down his business, sold the office premises and made staff redundant and he 
couldnt change  his plans. He was no longer  able to earn a living  or improve  his pension.  He 
was a lay person with no specialised financial or pension skills and had no reason  to doubt, 
Ref: DRN97828343nor was he able to check the figures  Phoenix  provided. Hed made specific enquiries but had 
been told final figures couldnt  be provided until he claimed his benefits. 
He said the various  loss calculations from his adviser were  reasonable. He added, if he was 
now forced to opt for an annuity,  the delays had cost him at least £20,000 in lost payments. 
He was also concerned the call with our technical  helpline may have prejudiced him as 
without knowing the full details of the case it wasnt possible to say compensation wouldnt 
be higher. Mr S also supplied a chronology  setting  out the key dates and events. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think what Phoenix has offered is fair and reasonable. I dont think  Phoenix 
should be required to pay any further compensation. Ive explained why below. Essentially, I 
agree with the investigator and the reasons she gave.  
Theres no dispute that Phoenix  provided  incorrect information over several  years. Mr S was 
given the wrong  underlying fund or transfer value.  It was an important  period  hed turned 
65 in 2013 so it was likely  hed be thinking  about retirement at some time.  And, by January 
2017, hed decided he was going  to retire later that year.  
I note what Phoenix has said about the transfer  values shown on the annual  statements not 
being guaranteed. And the notes to the statements said that. But I think  thats largely aimed 
at making investors  aware that fund values can fluctuate. I dont think  its entirely fair for 
Phoenix to point to that in this sort of situation. Mr S was entitled  to expect Phoenix would 
provide accurate information as to his fund or transfer value. Here  the value didnt change  by 
a relatively small amount  due to market movements.  It was substantially overstated  
because of an error Phoenix  had made  and failed to identify and correct  over several years.  
But where a mistake is made, generally that wont create any contractual  right to the higher, 
incorrect, value. I agree with the investigator that Phoenix wasnt  obliged  to pay Mr S the 
higher transfer  value  quoted in error.  That said, sometimes an entitlement  can arise. The 
legal position  isnt straightforward and more usually applies where money  is actually paid out 
which is then spent.  The recipient of the overpayment may have whats  called a change  of 
position defence  to a claim for repayment of the money. 
Ive thought about whether its that sort of situation here. First,  Id need to be satisfied Mr S 
was entitled to rely on the information  he got. He did check before he started to implement 
his retirement plans. He got his annual statement (dated 8 March  2017) but he requested an 
up to date statement  as well which was issued a couple of weeks later (on 23 March 2017). 
And hes pointed  to queries hed raised  in January 2014 and February 2016.  All in all Im not 
sure Mr S could have done much more. So I think he did reasonably rely on the (incorrect) 
information Phoenix gave. 
And Id also need  to be satisfied that Mr S would have acted differently if hed have been 
given the correct transfer value. I think this is problematic. Hes suggested he wouldnt have 
gone ahead  with his retirement plans, which involved winding up his business and selling his 
business premises. But retiring is a big decision, involving a number of factors.  Although 
financial considerations are likely to be central, other  issues, including  age, health and 
lifestyle preferences,  will feature. The plan documentation shows Mr Ss selected retirement 
Ref: DRN97828344date as his 70th birthday.  So arguably  his plan was always, and regardless  of what  
happened, to retire  then.  
Mr S has also referred to other pension arrangements.  I dont  have details of those or his 
overall financial position. I dont know whether this particular policy  formed a large or 
relatively small part of his retirement  provision.  Id need to be sure this policy was key and, 
had Mr S been told the correct transfer  value,  that would have changed his plans entirely.   
I bear in mind the policy was designed to provide  a guaranteed pension. That sort of 
arrangement can be valuable. It offers a secure,  base  level of income in retirement. A 
transfer value  might represent comparatively  poor value for the guaranteed pension  being 
given up and such that the investor might decide,  or be advised,  against transferring. The 
basic gross  annual pension plus declared  bonuses was correctly  shown  on the statements. I 
think that was on a single life, annually  in arrears, no minimum period, no tax free cash  and 
no escalation basis but I think  other  bases would  have been available too. 
But, assuming I was satisfied that Mr Ss retirement plans did hinge on the transfer value he 
thought hed get from this policy, Id still need to be sure, once he found out the correct  
transfer value,  he couldnt then unwind what hed started.  Hed instructed agents  in May 
2017 to put his business premises on the market  and on 16 June 2017 he confirmed his 
acceptance of an offer. The sale of a property is only binding  once contracts  have been  
exchanged. It usually takes some  time to reach  that stage after an offer has been accepted. 
And, by 27 July 2017, just over a month later, Mr S knew the value  of the policy  was in doubt 
 hed received  a retirement pack from Phoenix with a lower valuation.  
I dont think he queried that immediately. It wasnt  until a couple of months  or so later, on 22 
September 2017, that Mr S contacted  Phoenix about the discrepancy. Im not sure if it was 
only then he noticed  but he knew or ought  to have known  from late July 2017  that things 
might not be as hed been led to believe.  I recognise  Mr S would have been in an awkward 
position. Hed come  to a settled decision  to retire, wind down his business  and sell the 
premises and hed got a buyer. But he did have the chance to rethink things once  he knew  
the correct transfer  value  for this plan.  
But, even  if Im wrong about that, given what Ive said earlier about the nature of a decision 
to give up work and retire,  I think its difficult to say that, but for Phoenixs mistake, Mr S 
would have acted  differently or that hes changed his position  to his detriment by relying  on 
the incorrect fund/transfer value.  
I recognise hes suffered  considerable distress, including disappointment and inconvenience 
as a result  of Phoenixs admitted  error.  I dont seek to underplay  that. But I think the sum 
offered, £2,500,  is fair and reasonable.  As the investigators explained, its within  the range 
wed normally award where severe trouble  and upset has been caused. I dont think the 
conversation with our helpdesk prejudiced  Mr S or in some way limited  the amount  of 
compensation he might get. Im not awarding  more  compensation  because,  for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I cant say hes suffered any financial loss and I think the sums offered for 
distress and inconvenience are sufficient.  
Lastly, Mr S has said, if he now has to take an annuity, hell have missed  out as payments 
could have started earlier. We asked Phoenix about  the possibility of backdating Mr Ss 
annuity. It said that might be possible.  But taking tax free cash  appears  to be a problem. Ive 
asked the investigator  to let Mr S know exactly what Phoenix said. Phoenix also told us that 
Ref: DRN97828345Mr S has recently asked for annuity  illustrations. Hes selected one of the options given and 
hes asked Phoenix  to put his annuity  into payment (after paying  tax free cash).
Im going  to leave  it to Mr S and his adviser  to decide whether to pursue any backdating with 
Phoenix. Im not going to say Phoenix must  do that. Thats because  Mr S has known, since  
July 2017, a mistake  was made and Phoenix  werent going  to pay the higher transfer value. 
Mr S could have taken benefits  from the policy when he reached  age 70 in September 2017 
or anytime  thereafter.  Until very recently, he didnt elect to do so. He might say that was 
because he maintained he should  get the higher transfer value. But I wasnt able to agree 
(nor did the investigator) with him. If Mr S thinks  backdating might be better for him than the 
option hes selected hell need to let Phoenix know and see if anything can be agreed. If he 
wants to continue with the annuity  and tax free cash hes indicated  he should  confirm that to 
Phoenix so that his benefits can be put in payment as soon  as possible. 
my final decision
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  has already  made an offer of £2,500 plus an extra (in total)  
£100 to settle  this complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my 
decision is that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited  should pay, in total, £2,100  (less any part of 
this compensation  amount thats already been  paid).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9782834