K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Baker Tilly Financial Management Limited  (Baker  Tilly) gave 
unsuitable investment  advice.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs D took advice from financial advisers (now known as Baker  Tilly) to 
invest £277,000  into an investment bond, where  75% was invested in cash and 25% into a 
50/50 cautious managed  fund. Mr and Mrs D say this advice was unsuitable because the 
cost of fees and charges significantly reduced  the return and the adviser  failed to use 
realistic illustrations of the likely returns. Mr and Mrs D say they should  have been advised to 
invest in a long-term interest  account without fees.
Baker Tilly rely upon a fact find and related documents completed  at the time. They  say Mr 
and Mrs D were  cautious investors and the recommendations were  in line with their attitude  
to risk.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She decided not to uphold it. She thought the 
investment bond  met Mr and Mrs Ds objectives, it provided diversification within the portfolio 
and gave potential  for some growth.  As to fees,  our investigator took into account  that this 
was an actively managed account  and interest rates were  higher at the time the investment 
was made.  Further  the illustrations gave no guarantees and were  only indicative of returns.  
Mr and Mrs D do not agree with the view. It is said on their behalf  that Baker  Tilly should 
have offered a directly  comparable product, which did not incur fees. The recommendations 
should have been justified  against  readily  available  long-term savings accounts.  Further, the 
illustrations didnt fairly appraise Mr and Mrs D of the likely  returns.  They say other advisers 
consider that the advice given was poor.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to be clear at the outset that this decision concerns the suitability of the investment 
advice overall at the time the recommendation was made. Mr and Mrs D have raised  
concerns about  whether the fund was actively managed later on. Im not considering that 
aspect of the complaint against  Baker Tilly as it has already been resolved. In so far as the 
same complaint point  is raised against  another  adviser that is a separate  issue, being  
considered under a different decision.
Suitability
Its agreed between the parties that Mr and Mrs D had a cautious attitude  towards  risk. This 
is recorded in the personal  needs analysis questionnaire referring to a low risk investment 
strategy and again  in the recommendation. 
Ive looked at their circumstances at the time. Both Mr and Mrs D were  retired  and with a 
joint gross  income of £22,200  per annum with £90,000 in savings and £35,000 in ISAs. The 
Ref: DRN90381342£277,000 invested presented just over half their investments. Their capacity for capital loss 
was therefore  relatively  low and whilst they wanted  some growth over the medium term, 
there was an emphasis  on capital preservation given their circumstances. Mr and Mrs D 
were concerned about performance of their with profit investments and the terminal  bonus.  
Upon review, they were  advised to surrender two with profit  bonds  and then reinvest in an 
investment bond.
The recommendation was to invest 75% in cash,  including fixed interest  deposits,  and 25% 
in a 50/50 cautious managed collection fund, where  half was invested  in the UK Fixed 
Interest Fund and half in the External Stockmarket  Collection.  This gave Mr and Mrs D 
exposure to asset  classes including the stock market which  had potential  to provide better 
rates of growth over the medium term. 
The recommendation gave Mr and Mrs D a reasonably high level of fixed interest investment 
and given the relatively small portion  of the portfolio exposed to riskier asset classes, Im 
satisfied the overall  recommendation  was in line with Mr and Mrs Ds attitude to risk and their 
objectives. 
Ive taken into account our investigators  findings that the bank interest rates  dropped from 
5% in 2008 to 2% in 2009,  so there  would have  been less potential for growth if the funds 
had been invested in a deposit account.
Fees
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds disappointment that the deduction of fees reduced the return  on 
their investment. It is said on their behalf that the impact of these charges plus inflation 
would produce  negative returns and failed to meet  their investment objectives, rendering  the 
recommendation unsuitable.
Ive seen that at the time Mr and Mrs D took out the investment they were  provided with 
information about the fees structure  and they chose to proceed with a managed  fund. The 
recommendation explained that yearly management  charges would apply at on the 50/50 
Cautious Managed Collective  at 1.20% and on the cash at 1.0% and that commission would 
be paid to Baker Tillys predecessor at an initial fee of 1% of the Invested  sum and a further 
0.75% on an annual basis. There was also a 0.59% payment back into the investment for 
each single contribution that had been  made into it. The illustration from the time explained 
that commission would be payable to Mr and Mrs Ds adviser  and Page 2 of the illustrations 
estimated the cost of commission, expenses and charges.  Information  was given as to the 
potential effect  of deductions  on the investment over time.
 
Ive thought carefully about the points raised  on Mr and Mrs Ds behalf. In my view the 
information about the fees was clear  and overall  Im satisfied that they werent so punitive as 
to render the advice or the strategy  unsuitable.  Ive also taken into account that as advice 
was being taken, Mr and Mrs D would have likely paid commission charges in any event. 
The blend  of assets and selection of funds had the potential to produce a positive return  net 
of fees and inflation, whether that happened  was then down to performance of the bond, but 
that wouldnt render  the advice unsuitable.
Illustrations
Mr and Mrs D say the illustrations used an unrealistic range of annual returns. The 
illustrations simply  gave  examples of the potential amount  of return  if the investment 
Ref: DRN90381343performed at a certain level, different variables were given. The growth  rates shown were set 
by the industry  regulator at the time.  It was clear from the face of the illustrations  that the 
figures were  only examples and arent guaranteed. It was clearly explained at the bottom  of 
the first page of the illustration that investors could get back  more  or less, inflation  would  
reduce what could be bought in the future  and charges  varied between  firms.  So I dont 
agree that the illustrations were misleading or that they made  the advice unsuitable.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9038134