K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt allow him to properly manage  his
account so he failed to make  payments  on time. Interest and charges were  applied to his
account as a result.
background
Mr C made  the minimum payment to his credit card account by direct debit. The direct debit 
that he used to make the payments was cancelled. Mr C contacted Tesco  about this, but 
Tesco said he couldnt set up a new the direct debit because by that time his credit  card 
account was closed.
Online access to the account was also restricted because the account was closed. Tesco  
also failed to send Mr C paper statements. It acknowledged this error, and offered Mr C £25 
compensation.
Mr C considered Tesco should refund the interest  and charges  applied to his account  while  
he hadnt received  paper  statements. He also wanted any adverse information removed from 
his credit file.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 July 2019, and said I didnt  intend  to 
uphold it. Ive summarised my provisional  conclusions below:
Id listened  to the phone call Mr C had with Tesco shortly after his direct debit had 
been cancelled,  and Id also reviewed the correspondence that Tesco sent to him.
Mr C spoke to Tesco  shortly before his payment  for April 2018 was due. He was told 
that it wasnt possible to set up a direct  debit on a closed account. But the agent  gave 
him the sort code and account details he would need to make a Faster Payment. Mr 
C was also told that his minimum payment was £101, and that as long as he made 
his payments between  the 23rd and 12th of the month, they would be on time. So I 
thought Mr C wouldve  known what he had to do to avoid late payment charges and 
additional interest.
When Mr C failed to make  his payment for April 2018, Tesco  wrote  to him shortly  
afterwards to tell him a late payment  fee had been applied  to the account. It also 
wrote to him in early May 2018 to tell him that the minimum payment was overdue
and a late payment  fee had been  charged. The letters were  addressed  to Mr C at his 
correct address, and Id seen nothing to suggest  that Mr C didnt receive them.  
Similar letters were  sent in June and July 2018.
So even  though Mr C may not have been receiving statements from Tesco,  I thought 
it was reasonable  for him to have known that payments werent  being  made  to his 
account. 
I thought Tesco made  Mr C aware of the status of his account, what  he owed and 
what he needed to do to avoid further  charges  and fees. I wasnt  persuaded that 
Tescos failure to send  the statements was the reason Mr C didnt make payments to 
his account.
Ref: DRN98071992Tesco had offered to pay £25 compensation  in recognition that it didnt send 
statements as it shouldve done, and I thought that was fair and reasonable.
I wasnt persuaded that the lack of statements was the reason Mr C failed  to make 
payments to his account. So I didnt consider Tesco had to refund interest and 
charges applied to the account while the statements werent being sent. In addition,  I 
didnt consider Tesco had to remove adverse information about the account for that 
period from Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C responded to say that he didnt agree with my provisional conclusions.
Tesco didnt  make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision Id said that the bank  account from which  Mr C paid his direct  
debit had been closed, which was why the direct debit was cancelled. Mr C has told me that 
the bank account from which his direct  debit was paid remains  open. Ive noted  what hes 
said, although Ive seen evidence to suggest  that the account was closed on 28 March 2018. 
I also note that when Mr C contacted  Tesco before his April 2018  was due, he was ringing to 
change the direct debit  details.  
But whether  or not the bank account  was closed,  Im not persuaded that this affects the 
overall outcome  of the complaint. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  when Mr C spoke to Tesco it told him what  he  
needed to do to avoid interest  and charges on the account.
And even  though Tesco didnt send statements as it should have done, I remain of the view 
that it wrote to Mr C at his correct  address in May,  June and July 2018, to tell him about the 
status of the account. 
So I still think Mr C wouldve  been aware  that payments werent  being  made to his account. 
And Im not persuaded that Tescos failure to send  statements was the reason Mr C didnt 
make payments to his account.
Overall, Im not minded to depart from the position  set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN98071993my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. I leave  it to Mr C to decide
whether or not he wants to accept Tesco Personal Finance PLCs  offer of £25.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9807199