K822xcomplaint
Mr E and Mrs E complained about  a number of matters relating to TSB Bank Plcs mortgage 
computer problems. Their  complaints  related  to not being able to take extra  borrowing for 
home improvements when they wanted  to. They said theyd been left significantly out of 
pocket because theyd  taken out a personal  loan, used savings, and borrowed from family.
They want  more compensation than TSB offered them.
background 
Mr E and Mrs E had a mortgage with TSB. It had two sub-accounts. The smaller of these 
had an interest rate of 3.99% and the larger had an interest rate of 1.08%.
In April 2018, Mr E and Mrs E applied  to TSB to increase their borrowing because they 
wanted to carry  out home improvements, including landscaping  and an extension.
But TSB was having computer  system  problems at the time,  and told them it couldnt offer 
extra borrowing  to any existing borrowers. It told Mr E and Mrs E that if they decided to move  
to another lender, it would  waive any Early  Repayment Charge  (ERC)  that would normally  
be incurred if they paid off their mortgage. But Mr E and Mrs E had a very good  rate at 
1.08%, so they didnt want to move their mortgage elsewhere.
Mr E and Mrs E decided to go ahead  with their plans. They  took out a personal loan with 
another lender for £20,000, spent savings of around £35,000, and borrowed  £15,000  from 
family.
In summer  2018, Mr E and Mrs E complained to TSB.  They complained about a number of 
matters relating to the fact that TSB hadnt been  able to offer extra borrowing because of the 
computer issues. They said that as they hadnt  been able to take further borrowing, they 
were more than £30,000  in debt. They also complained that they hadnt been told that extra  
borrowing would need to be done  as a further advance,  not a remortgage.   
TSB sent acknowledgements, but because of the volume of complaints, it didnt send a final 
response letter until March 2019. In that letter, TSB apologised that its mortgage  lending had 
been unavailable for longer than it had expected,  but it said these could now be applied for. 
TSB also explained that remortgages were offered if a borrower wanted to port (transfer) a 
mortgage when  moving to a new property. It noted that Mr E and Mrs E had now applied for 
£36,000 further advance.
In compensation,  TSB offered Mr E and Mrs E £500  for distress  and inconvenience, and £50 
to cover any expenses.  It also said that if Mr E and Mrs E provided evidence  of any interest  
theyd lost by having  to use their savings instead  of being able to borrow,  the bank would 
look into any losses.
Mr E and Mrs E werent satisfied and complained to this service.  They  set out what  had 
happened, and said that bank rates had gone  up since  their original  request,  so any 
mortgage they now got would cost more. They explained that theyd suffered personal stress 
and depression, and had to take medication.  They said they had half a completed house  
extension that they couldnt afford  to complete.  They were very unhappy that TSB hadnt 
been willing  to talk to them until the computer systems were working again. And it wasnt  
Ref: DRN92885722until December 2018 that TSB had told them that theyd have to be assessed for additional 
lending, which meant the rates were poor.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr E and Mrs Es complaint. She said that further  borrowing 
would involve a full mortgage review,  and an application which could be successful or 
unsuccessful. She also noted that when  Mr E and Mrs E originally applied,  TSB had said it 
wasnt in a position to lend. Theyd  taken the decision to go ahead with work anyway  but 
the investigator didnt  think  TSB could be held responsible  for that decision.  It had never 
made a formal offer and the funds had never been  guaranteed. So the investigator 
considered that TSBs compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr E and Mrs E didnt agree. They said the £550  compensation  didnt  even cover  what  it had 
cost them  to arrange the £20,000 personal  loan,  while they were  waiting for TSB to respond.  
And theyd  also have to pay a higher  interest rate on whatever mortgage they now arranged. 
Nor did the compensation offer cover or acknowledge the personal stress  and health  issues  
caused by TSBs computer problems and refusal to talk to them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that it would  have been very frustrating for Mr E and Mrs E when they couldnt  
get a substantive reply from TSB about  the extra  borrowing they wanted. This lasted for 
many months during 2018,  and I understand the annoyance and inconvenience that this 
would have caused.
But ultimately, it was Mr E and Mrs Es decision to go ahead with starting their improvements 
before they had an answer from TSB. TSB hadnt  made them an offer, so I cant say that 
TSB was responsible  for any of the difficulties resulting from their decision to start the work. 
Ultimately, all lending is subject to being  fully assessed, so there was no guarantee their 
application would be successful.
I note that Mr E and Mrs E have said that they werent told early  enough  that any extra  
lending would need to be a further  advance rather than a remortgage  because  a 
remortgage could  only be if they were  moving home. I appreciate  that this was inconvenient 
and it would have  been helpful if theyd known this earlier. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the compensation which TSB offered was fair and 
reasonable, taking  all the factors  into account. I find that it was. I understand that it was very 
frustrating to have  many months delay in being  able to apply. And Mr E and Mrs E had a 
favourable interest  rate on part of their mortgage, so the decision to move  elsewhere would 
have been a difficult one. But ultimately, no lending is guaranteed without an offer,  and it 
was Mr E and Mrs Es decision not to move to another lender, and to go ahead with their 
works before getting an offer from TSB. So I find that TSBs offer of £500 for distress and 
inconvenience, £50 for any expenses, and reimbursement of lost savings interest costs if Mr 
E and Mrs E could provide evidence, was fair and reasonable.  I find that this offer of 
compensation also reasonably covered the inconvenience of not knowing at an early  stage  
that extra borrowing  would need  to be a further  advance, not a remortgage.
Ref: DRN92885723my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr E and Mrs E to decide  
whether or not they wish to ask TSB Bank Plc whether its compensation offer is still 
available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9288572