K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the lack of communication  from Legal  & General Insurance  
Limited (L&G) after he made a claim under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr L made a claim to L&G under his home emergency cover  because his freezer had 
stopped working  and the food in the freezer had gone to waste. Mr L wasnt  happy  about 
(amongst other things) the way L&G was dealing with the claim. 
He brought a complaint  to this service. In 2016 another ombudsman  upheld his complaint in 
part. She said in order for L&G to progress the repair and the freezer food claim, Mr L 
would have to send it relevant  information. Mr L didnt accept the ombudsmans decision by 
the deadline we gave  him. That means it wasnt  and isnt binding on L&G.
Mr L arranged for the freezer to be repaired. He says he gave L&G information about his 
claim but L&G refused  to communicate with him. So he made  another  complaint. L&G noted  
that Mr L was having  problems  with its secure  email  system and that it could have handled 
the matter better. It paid him £50 compensation for this. The claim for the freezer  contents  
has now been settled.
As Mr L still wasnt  happy, he brought another complaint  to this service.  Our investigator 
looked at how L&G had communicated with Mr L since the date of the first ombudsmans  
decision. She noted that L&G had made it clear very many times that it required a report  on 
the cause of damage to the freezer. Mr L hadnt  provided that. She was satisfied that L&G 
had acted reasonably.
As Mr L didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion the real cause of Mr Ls dissatisfaction with L&G is the fact that it wont  
progress his claim for the freezer  repair costs without evidence  of the cause of damage to 
the heat exchanger. I cant  look at anything which has already been considered as part of an 
ombudsmans previous decision. Another ombudsman said it was reasonable for L&G to 
require this evidence.  So I cant revisit  that.
That means Im only looking at how L&G has communicated with Mr L since the date of that 
decision. Its clear from the correspondence  that did reach Mr L that L&G has wanted  a 
cause of damage report for the heat exchanger which had caused the freezer  to stop 
working. Although  there have been some problems with communication since,  its always  
been consistent on this point. 
I appreciate that it must have been  irritating for Mr L that for a time L&G was sending 
him secure  emails that he couldnt read. But I can see that it also tried to call him 
several times without  success  and sent him letters. He was already  aware of what  
L&G needed. So in the circumstances I think L&Gs offer of £50 compensation was 
Ref: DRN91712572reasonable. Apart from this Im satisfied that overall L&G made  reasonable efforts to 
communicate with Mr L. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9171257