K820x#14complaint
Mr R complained because  Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined his travel insurance  claim.
background
Mr R travelled back to the UK from South Africa. He went straight to work after landing in
London. When he got home he realised  his iPod, dive computer and headphones were
missing. He thinks he may have lost them while  going through  airport  security in South
Africa. Mr R completed the claim form that Mapfre sent him and provided some  proof  of
purchase for the missing items. He said he couldnt  get a police report  because the
UK police no longer  recorded lost property  for insurance claims. He later provided Mapfre 
with a document from the police that explained  their lost property policy.
Mapfre declined Mr Rs claim.  As there wasnt a report from either the police or other
relevant authority, it felt there was nothing to corroborate Mr Rs word  that the loss had
occurred. It also said Mr R hadnt retraced  his steps or contacted the airline or airport once
he discovered the loss. It said if hed done  that it might  have  resulted  in the property being
recovered.
Whilst the complaint  has been with us Mr R contacted the airport and they told him that any
lost items are passed to the airport  police.  Mr R emailed the airport  police asking whether his
property was handed in and how long items  are kept for. He also tried calling. But he didnt 
get any response.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. The relevant parts of that decision are outlined below.
supporting documentation
The policy said Mapfre wouldnt pay for anything that was lost which  Mr R didnt report  to 
the police  within  24 hours and which he didnt  get a written police report for. The policy  
also said Mr R had to tell the relevant transport company if his belongings were  delayed, 
lost, stolen or damaged; and that he had to get a property  irregularity report  (PIR)  from 
the relevant transport  company.
Mr R had that responsibility anyway because its for him in the first instance to prove  (or 
establish) his loss. So, in effect,  he had to show  that something  he owned was lost 
because of something that was covered by the policy. If he couldnt  overcome  this hurdle 
his claim would fail.
It wasnt not enough for Mr R to prove/establish his loss by just saying that something 
happened. He needed to do, or provide, more in order  to substantiate  that. Otherwise, it 
would be too easy for policyholders to provide their insurer with a receipt  for something  
and just say that it was lost or stolen  overseas while they were on holiday.  Thats  why 
insurers put terms like the ones summarised above into insurance policies.
Although Mapfre accepted Mr R couldnt  have got a report from the UK police, it felt that 
without any other  sort of report  all he had to prove his loss was his testimony as to what 
Ref: DRN92791642happened. I agreed with Mapfre on this. Whilst what Mr R said may have happened, 
there was nothing to substantiate that. I didnt  think the document  Mr R got from the UK 
police held much  evidential value is this case.
It seemed to me that Mapfre felt something  more sinister might be going on. I didnt 
share that concern. Nevertheless,  I wasnt persuaded that Mr R had done  enough to get 
over the hurdle of proving his loss. I didnt  think it was enough for him to simply say that 
he lost the items in South  Africa without anything else backing  that up. So I thought  
Mapfre had treated him fairly when declining the claim on this basis.
Mr Rs actions
The policy also said Mr R needed  to take all reasonable steps to get back his lost items. 
Even if this wasnt in the policy  I thought  it would  be prudent  and expected  for someone  
who had lost something to retrace their steps to try and find it or get it back. It was 
unreasonable to expect  Mr R to physically retrace his steps  and return  to the airport.  But 
while Mr R contacted  the UK police (who couldnt have done anything  to help retrieve  the 
items), he didnt immediately contact  the airport authorities or the airport police to see if 
his items  had been handed in. It was impossible to know  whether that would have 
resulted in Mr R getting any of the items back; but it would  have added  credibility to his 
account and it would  have meant he fulfilled the requirement of the policy.
Mr R said he simply did what Mapfre told him. He said he was told he wouldnt need to 
provide any information (such  as a PIR or other similar report from the airport authorities 
or airport police) if he got a police report.  I saw a note on Mapfres records from when Mr 
R first told it about the claim,  but that didnt mention anything about  documentation Mr R 
was asked to provide.  I saw another note following a call roughly 10 days  later when Mr 
R told Mapfre he was having a problem getting  the police report and him wanting to 
check the documentation Mapfre needed before he sent anything. But that just recorded  
that Mapfre told Mr R it was conscious of his problems and it understood each  case  
individually.
Aside from the calls,  Mapfre  wrote  to Mr R at the start of the claim asking for various 
documents. These included a written police  report. It further said if it wasnt  possible to 
get a police report it would need  a report from a relevant authority and an explanation  of 
why he couldnt  get a police report. Another document sent to Mr R said he had to 
provide a report from the relevant authority associated with his claim.
Mapfre couldnt provide me with recordings of the calls  which would have  confirmed 
what Mr R was told. I was nevertheless satisfied from what  Id seen it was more  likely 
than not that Mr R was told something along  the lines of what hed said. Had he been 
told something else, I would have expected the note from the second call to have said 
something like if you dont/cant get a police report then youll  need  to get a report  from 
the airport or airport police.
But even  though Mr R had most  likely been told verbally that hed only need a police 
report, I thought  that was outweighed by the policy specifically saying the relevant 
transport company (ie the airport)  needed to be told and a PIR was needed, and Mr R 
needed to take reasonable steps  to get back any lost items. While Mr R tried to contact 
the airport and airport police, I didnt think doing so approximately  10 months  after the 
incident could  be classed as taking reasonable steps to get the items  back.  So, overall, I 
Ref: DRN92791643didnt think Mapfre verbally  telling Mr R that only a police report was needed  was 
sufficient for me to make  it settle  the claim.
responses my provisional decision
I didnt receive anything further  from Mapfre.
Mr R didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said my conclusion  was a reversal  of a 
provisional decision another ombudsman had reached on the complaint. He felt Mapfre had 
implied that he was a liar and a fraud and that Id condoned this. He also said he shouldnt 
be penalised  by Mapfre not being able to provide recordings of the phone calls.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But my final decision remains as per my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
reversal of the previous  decision
Another ombudsman  initially issued a provisional  decision  upholding this complaint 
(reversing our investigators  conclusion  to not uphold the complaint). That ombudsman  has 
now left the Financial Ombudsman Service.  So it will never  be known whether his final 
decision would have  been along  the same lines or whether he would have changed  his 
mind.
In any event, the complaint still needed  deciding by an ombudsman because Mr R and 
Mapfre couldnt reach agreement. So it fell to me to review the complaint afresh and make a 
decision. Although  I appreciate my provisional  decision  differed to the previous one, I believe 
the reasons why I reached the conclusion I did were clearly  explained. Following  the 
previous ombudsmans provisional decision there was no additional information provided  in 
respect of documentation  for the police  report. Mapfre  did provide further comments, which  
were passed  on to Mr R for his reference. 
case issues
It may be that Mapfre has concerns over the complaint and over what  Mr R says happened.  
But I dont think thats important to the outcome of this complaint.  I explained  in my 
provisional decision that I didnt share any concern that Mapfre might  have. And the reason 
Im not upholding the complaint isnt because I think Mr R is a liar or a fraud. As explained 
above, its because  I dont think he got over the hurdle  of proving/establishing his loss.
I dont think Mr R has been penalised  by Mapfre not being able to provide recordings of the 
telephone calls. On the contrary, I concluded that Mr R was probably told that hed only need 
a police report. However, that didnt over-ride what Mr R needed to do as per the terms of 
the policy and in order to prove/establish his loss.
In closing, in response  to my provisional  decision Mr R said he felt a final decision being  
made is an attempt  to stop him from pursuing  the matter further,  and he feels the need to get 
legal representation. An ombudsmans final decision is the end of our process  there is no 
right of appeal for either party once a final decision is made. However, Mr R doesnt  have to 
Ref: DRN92791644accept my final decision  he is free to reject it. If he does that, my decision wont affect any 
legal right that he has to pursue the matter elsewhere.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9279164