K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr G say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. The policy was sold by Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited, but St Andrews  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and complaint.
background
St Andrews  say Mrs G took out PPI on the phone to protect their mortgage repayments. 
Mrs G says, she doesnt recall this and Mr G always dealt with their insurance matters.  They  
were covered for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr G disagreed so their complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews say Mrs G originally took out the policy on the phone. St Andrews cant  
provide a call recording  or sales script, but thats not unreasonable given how long ago 
the sale was. Banks often only keep records for six years.   Mrs  G cant recall taking out 
PPI on the phone,  and said that they never  took out this type of insurance. She said they 
didnt sign anything  to take out the cover. She said that generally Mr G dealt with any 
insurance matters, so she thinks it unlikely that she wouldve dealt with this. They  also 
said that they wouldnt have taken the cover as they were saving money to do work on 
their house, so they wouldnt  have wanted the extra expense. They  said they wouldnt 
have needed it either because  their parents wouldve helped  out and they had adequate 
sick pay, other insurances,  and savings and no dependants.
I cant know what was discussed about  PPI during that phone call. I think the banks 
records, made at the time, can reasonably be relied on to show that PPI was sold during 
a phone call. I say this because I can see that a few days afterwards they were sent a 
long letter explaining  that they had taken out PPI, telling  them the cost and providing 
further details  about it. They were also sent a copy of their insurance certificate. I cant  
know if they got this, or read it. I can see that the direct  debit for the premium of around 
£56 per month was payable from Mr Gs account.  I  think  if they hadnt meant to take 
PPI, they wouldve  told St Andrews  that when they got this letter, or when the monthly  
deductions for PPI started. The PPI was added some time after they took out the 
mortgage, so I think  Mrs and Mr G wouldve  understood they didnt need PPI, as they 
didnt take it out when  they first took out their mortgage. And I think it likely they wouldve 
noticed they were  paying more. So, I think it more  likely  that they did agree to take out 
cover in 2008. I can understand why they dont remember it that way after so much time. 
Overall, I think its likely that St Andrews made it clear  the PPI was optional,  and they 
opted to take the cover,  knowing  they didnt have to have  it.
Ref: DRN98357412St Andrews  recommended  the PPI and I think  it seems to have been  right for them 
based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time. Mrs G said she was entitled  
to around 4 months  worth  of pay at full pay and 4 months at half pay if she was off work 
sick. Mr G said he also wouldve  got some sick pay, but he wasnt  clear about how 
much. But, the PPI would  have paid out in addition to their work benefits  and for up to 
12 months per successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. They couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy, offering them long term protection for their home.
They  said they had some savings and family couldve  helped out. The policy wouldve 
allowed them  to keep hold of their savings, to help meet their other household expenses  
if one or both of them wasnt working.  I accept that their parents may have wanted to 
help out, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed, so I havent placed much  
reliance on this. So, I cant see that their other means  made  the policy unsuitable for 
them.
Its possible  St Andrews didnt give Mrs and Mr G all the information they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. I dont  know  exactly when the cost was made  clear,  although  I 
can see it was covered in the letter sent to them  after the phone call. But, I think they 
wouldve understood they had to pay something  for it, and the PPI seemed apparently 
affordable. They  couldve cancelled  the monthly  paid policy  at any time without  losing 
out financially. They didnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main  exclusions 
or limitations (such  as those affecting people with pre-existing  medical  conditions  or on 
certain types of employment  contract).  So, overall, I dont think that better information 
wouldve changed  their decision  to take out PPI.
Ive thought about everything that Mrs and Mr G have said. But, this doesnt change my 
view. It follows, I dont  think  Mrs and Mr G have lost out because  of any problems with this 
sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019 .
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9835741