K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint is about  their mortgage with Lloyds. They have said they believe 
the mortgage was mis-sold and mis-managed.  They are unhappy  that payments ceased 
being collected in 2011 and previous over-payments  made to the mortgage were  used to 
pay the interest until 2015.  Following the over-payments being exhausted, Mr S and Mrs T 
are unhappy  they werent told the mortgage had gone into arrears  they say the first they 
knew about this was when they were contacted in September 2018 and threatened with 
repossession. 
In addition to the above,  Mr S and Mrs T believe  Lloyds should have claimed the proceeds 
from an mortgage endowment policy that matured in 2012 and paid the money  off the 
mortgage at that time. 
background
Mr S and Mrs T took out a mortgage in 1987 with Lloyds. It was for £61,500  over 25 years. 
The mortgage was set up on an interest only basis with a mortgage endowment  policy,  the 
details of which matched  the mortgage, to be used as the repayment vehicle. The mortgage  
offer sent to Mr S and Mrs T states  the endowment  policy  had to be assigned  to the 
mortgage and shortly thereafter  it was. Lloyds has confirmed that it decided  not to assign 
policies in the 1990s and it released  its interest in those it already had assigned.
It appears from the documentation  from the time of the sale that Mr S and Mrs T originally 
arranged to pay their mortgage by standing order. Lloyds records show  the payments being 
made (presumably from the standing  order) stopped in 2011. As Mr S and Mrs T had 
previously overpaid on their mortgage, these overpayments  were  then used to cover the 
monthly payments.  It is likely the overpayments occurred because Mr S and Mrs T didnt 
reduce the amount the standing order paid each time interest  rates decreased   leaving their 
monthly payments   to remain  the same. 
In early 2012 Lloyds  started to write to Mr S and Mrs T about their mortgage and the fact that 
it was due to be repaid  at the very beginning of 2013. It did the same  a few weeks  before the 
term expired. 
In November 2012 the endowment provider wrote  to Mr S and Mrs T. It reminded them  the 
endowment was due to mature  at the end of the year.  It enclosed  the necessary  forms for 
them to complete to claim the maturity proceeds  and told them when they needed to return  
them by. No mention of an assignment  or Lloyds was mentioned. Mr S and Mrs T didnt 
complete and return the forms.  
The product  provider wrote to Mr S and Mrs T again  a couple of weeks before the maturity. 
It reminded them it had sent the documentation  to allow the maturity value of the policy to be 
paid. It also told them what would happen  if they didnt return the forms  it would hold on to 
the money until they contacted it to tell it what they wanted to do with the money.  Mr S and 
Mrs T didnt  contact the product provider. Again, there was no mention of an assignment or 
Lloyds in relation  to the collection of the maturity proceeds.
The endowment policy matured at the end of 2012 for less than its target  amount. The 
maturity value wasnt claimed at the time and remained in a holding  account with the product 
provider. The mortgage term expired  on 1 January  2013.
Ref: DRN93110482On 10 April 2014 Lloyds  wrote to Mr S and Mrs T telling them  the interest only part of their 
mortgage had expired.  It explained that as only interest had been paid, there was a capital 
balance they needed to pay. Mr S and Mrs T were asked to contact Lloyds to discuss the 
position and options available to them.
In May 2014  Mr S telephoned Lloyds as requested.  He was unhappy  hed paid his mortgage  
and the endowment throughout, but there was still a balance remaining. He said he was 
unhappy hed been lent the money without any record of any checks of any policies to repay 
the balance. Lloyds told Mr S that he needed  to contact  the mortgage  broker  that sold him 
the mortgage. As such, it wasnt responsible for whether the mortgage was suitable for them 
or not. 
During 2015 and 2016  Lloyds made further  attempts to contact Mr S and Mrs T. It managed  
to do so on some occasions,  however, Mr S sometimes  failed the security  checks and he 
was asked to call back and on other  occasions  nothing substantial seems  to have come out 
of the conversations.  
The overpayment pot ran out in 2015  and the interest due on the account became an arrears 
balance. This, in the second half of 2018 reached  a level where Lloyds decided that legal 
action would need to be taken.
Mr S and Mrs T again  complained about  the mortgage sale in the autumn of 2018.  They  said 
they were told they could  only have an interest only mortgage and not repayment  as theyd 
wanted. They felt the mortgage was sold to boost the branchs targets. 
Lloyds responded to Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint in its letter  of 17 October 2018. It pointed  
out that Mr S and Mrs T had raised the same  complaint in 2014. It reiterated the mortgage 
had been sold by a broker and Mr S and Mrs T should contact the broker if they had 
concerns about  the sale.
In March 2019, Mr S and Mrs T complained to Lloyds about the balance of the account.  
They pointed out they had borrowed £61,500 but the balance was then £69,012.34. Aviva 
also reissued the maturity  pack to Mr S and Mrs T, to enable them to sort out claiming the 
maturity proceeds of their endowment policy. When it did so, it also informed Mr S and Mrs T 
the policy was still assigned to Lloyds and it would have to provide a letter  of no further 
interest/a deed  of reassignment before the maturity proceeds could  be paid to Mr S and 
Mrs T.
During the investigation of Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint, Lloyds explained how the mortgage 
balance came about. It provided details of the mortgage balance  at the time the monthly 
payments had ceased - £53,430. To this mortgage  interest was added as was the premium 
for the buildings  insurance Lloyds arranged for Mr S and Mrs T.
Lloyds also confirmed that its current computer system had been  in use since 1999 and 
there was no record of an endowment policy being  attached to the mortgage at that time or 
since. It said that if there was a policy assigned, in this situation it would have to rely on the 
product provider or the mortgagor to tell it about the situation. Lloyds also confirmed that 
unpaid mortgage  payments would  not have been  chased until the mortgage was formally in 
arrears  when the balance  of what was owed was higher  than the original mortgage 
balance.
Ref: DRN93110483One of our investigators  considered Mr S and Mrs Ts complaint. She didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr S and Mrs T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They 
reiterated their previous  comments and said that Aviva had confirmed  to them  that the policy  
was assigned to the mortgage throughout, including at maturity. They didnt provide a copy 
of Avivas confirmation of this. They also believe they were charged interest on the entire 
£61,500 mortgage advance throughout and they have paid more interest than they should 
have. Mr S and Mrs T also commented that Lloyds didnt have the agreement of the 
policyholders or the product provider in the event it tried to release its interest in the 
endowment policy.
Mr S and Mrs T would like the mortgage balance recalculated, including  interest  accrued, on 
the basis of the endowment policy proceeds  having been paid off the mortgage in 2012.
my findings
I note that Mr S and Mrs T have raised  issues regarding the suitability of the endowment 
policy used to support  their mortgage  and the administration of that policy.  As the policy was 
sold by an independent adviser and the policy is administered by the product  provider,  
Lloyds has no responsibility for those  issues. Equally, Lloyds is not responsible for the 
advice about the type of mortgage  Mr S and Mrs T took out  that would again be the 
independent adviser. As such,  I will not comment on those issues in this decision.
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that in 1987 the lender insisted that an endowment policy was assigned  to the 
mortgage as the repayment vehicle. That was not unusual  in the 1980s and even into the 
1990s. However, following lenders changing their legal status and therefore their names, 
merging or being  taken  over, assignments made in the names of the original lenders could  
present issues. Added to this consumers  became more likely to move their mortgages  or sell 
and buy new properties, meant increased administration  burdens for assigned policies. In 
light of the environment in the 1990s  mainstream lenders stopped assigning policies for most  
mortgages and reassigned those  they had. Some were possibly missed, but most were  
reassigned. 
Unfortunately, because these assignments happened so long ago, most lenders dont still 
have the records  of either the assignment or the reassignment. Whilst  policyholders and 
product providers would have been told a policy was being reassigned to the policyholder,  
those parties didnt have to agree  to it happening.  In this case Lloyds systems date back  to 
1999 and it has no record of a policy being assigned to Mr S and Mrs Ts mortgage at that 
point or any point since. 
Mr S and Mrs T have said that they have spoken to the product provider recently and it has 
confirmed the policy was assigned to the lender throughout its term, including  at maturity. 
They havent  provided anything from the product  provider to evidence this. Indeed, in 2012  
when the policy matured, the product provider didnt  mention and assignment.  If its records  
had recorded  the policy being  assigned to the lender  at that time,  I would  have expected it to 
inform Mr S and Mrs T this was the case and explain  they had to get consent from the lender 
for the proceeds  to be paid to them or it would have sent the maturity  pack direct to the 
lender. Theres no evidence either of these things happened. Indeed the maturity  pack was 
sent to Mr S and Mrs T and there  was no mention  of an assignment in those documents.  
This would indicate  to me that in 2012  the product provider didnt think the policy was 
Ref: DRN93110484assigned to Lloyds  or any other lender. Indeed,  the product provider  has said the only record  
it has of an assignment on the policy is the deed  of assignment Mr S and Mrs T recently 
provided to it and us. 
As such,  I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong in not claiming the maturity proceeds 
from the endowment  policy and paying them off the mortgage in 2012.  It doesnt appear 
there was an assignment in place at the time and so it was for Mr S and Mrs T to act on the 
correspondence they received from the product provider about the maturity. This is even 
more so in light of the fact that Lloyds  was chasing  them to pay their mortgage off, which  I 
think reasonably  Mr S and Mrs T would have questioned if they believed Lloyds would be 
automatically receiving the maturity  value of the policy and paying it off the mortgage.
I note that Mr S and Mrs T have provided a recent  letter  from the product provider which 
says its records show the policy  having been assigned  to the lender and what that means for 
claiming the maturity  value. However,  Im considering what  happened  in 2012. At that point 
Lloyds didnt have  any record  of a policy being assigned  to the mortgage and neither did the 
product provider. Nor did Mr S and Mrs T appear to have thought the policy  was at the time, 
or I would have expected them to have mentioned the assignment.
Mr S and Mrs T have relied  on the reissued maturity letter (dated in early  2019) to evidence  
the policy was assigned all along.  As I have explained above,  we have checked with the 
product provider and until Mr S and Mrs T recently provided a copy of the deed  of 
assignment they held,  it had no record  of the policy being assigned to the mortgage. The 
reissued maturity pack mentioned the assignment  as Mr S and Mrs T had told the product 
provider the policy was assigned. 
I note that Mr S and Mrs T believe  that the mortgage  balance  should be rebuilt  assuming the 
endowment policy proceeds had been  paid off the mortgage shortly after maturity, but I cant 
agree. As I have  said above, it was Mr S and Mrs Ts responsibility  to claim the policy  
proceeds and repay their mortgage, either using the funds  from the policy or from other 
means. As such, I cant find Lloyds was responsible for the fact that Mr S and Mrs T paid 
more interest on their mortgage than reasonably they could have.
In relation to the mortgage payments stopping in 2011, I havent seen any evidence Lloyds 
was responsible for this happening. It appears the payments were being made by standing 
order. Standing orders  can only be controlled  by the account-holder or the account providing 
bank. The payee  has no control over the arrangement. As such, I cant find Lloyds 
responsible for the payments stopping  it is the mortgagors responsibility to pay the 
monthly payments.  
Once the monthly payments stopped,  Lloyds used  overpayments already made to cover  the 
missed payments. I see nothing wrong with that. I would also comment  that Mr S and Mrs T 
were aware their mortgage  hadnt been repaid  and they werent making  payments anymore. 
As for Lloyds not contacting Mr S and Mrs T until 2018  and it was threatening possession 
proceedings, I am satisfied Lloyds contacted Mr S and Mrs T on numerous occasions  about 
the repayment of their mortgage from 2012 onwards. So they were aware the mortgage  
remained outstanding  and that they werent  making interest payments to it. In that situation, I 
think it reasonable for Mr S and Mrs T to have known there was a problem.
I note that Mr S and Mrs T have concerns about whether the mortgage balance is correct.  
Having looked  at the explanation Lloyds has given and considered  the circumstances, I 
havent seen anything that would  make me question the balance they have been given. That 
Ref: DRN93110485said, this service doesnt provide a checking service. If Mr S and Mrs T really do consider  the 
mortgage balance  is wrong, they would need  to employ their own suitably qualified  expert  to 
check the balance.  If that expert finds the balance  to be incorrect, Mr S and Mrs T would 
need to provide the experts calculations and methodology to Lloyds for it to consider the 
matter further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 September 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311048