K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc made errors  which resulted in him mistakenly using 
money that didnt belong  to him to buy a property. He says this damaged  his reputation.  
Mr H asks for compensation.
background 
Mr H was buying a property. He visited a Santander  branch and transferred money  from his 
Santander accounts for the purchase. 
It was discovered later that Santander  had incorrectly transferred about £92,000 into Mr Hs 
account. The money was transferred from an account belonging to a professional society, for 
which Mr H was a signatory. Mr H says hes been accused of embezzlement and doesnt 
have the funds to repay the money. Mr H says this damaged his reputation and professional  
relationships and could have resulted in him losing membership of his professional body.
Santander accepted it made errors.  It says it shouldnt have given Mr H information  about his 
business accounts at its branch. And it shouldnt have transferred money from the societys  
account without  a second signature. Santander offered £300 compensation. It said Mr Hs 
embarrassment had been minimised as it told the society it was responsible for the error.
Our investigator said the compensation  offered by Santander was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He said hed have expected Mr H to know where  hed get the money  for the 
property purchase.  And Santander did what it could  to minimise the impact of its error on 
Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Santanders  error cost him considerable time, inconvenience  and 
stress. He said his professional body was about  to take action against him for 
embezzlement. Mr H said hes relatively wealthy  with money in a number  of investments and 
had no reason not to accept what Santander said about the balance  of his accounts.  Mr H 
said £5,000 would be appropriate  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
In mid April 2018 Mr H visited his Santander  branch. He asked for all the money  in his 
accounts with Santander to be put into his current account. Branch staff wrongly included 
£92,000 from the societys account  in the transfer. Mr H then transferred funds from his 
Santander current account to an account  with another provider. He used this money towards  
the cost of buying a property in early  May.
The error was discovered in early May 2018  when Santander was contacted  by the society 
about the money missing from its account.  Initially, Mr H was told he owed about £15,000 
which he repaid.  On 18 May, Mr H was told he owed another  £77,000.
Ref: DRN95910762what should happen now?
Santander made errors. It shouldnt have transferred money from the societys  account 
without authorisation  from two signatories.  This has caused Mr H embarrassment with his 
business colleagues. He had to find funds to repay the money. Ive no doubt  this has caused 
him upset,  embarrassment and inconvenience.  I think Santander should pay compensation 
for this. I think £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Ive explained why below.
Ive taken into account that Santander  told the society promptly that it was responsible for 
the error.  It also provided a letter to Mr H saying this. I think  this was the right thing to do, to 
minimise the effect on Mr H. 
Mr H says he has a number of investments and accepted what  Santander told him about the 
account balances.  However, customers do have responsibility for managing  their accounts. 
From what  Mr H has said, it seems the error happened  about two weeks  before he 
completed on his property purchase. If Mr H had been given correct information  about his 
account balances  with Santander hed have needed  to source  £92,000 from elsewhere. I 
appreciate that circumstances can change.  But its not clear to me that it was significantly 
more difficult for Mr H to find £92,000  in May 2018 to repay  the debt than it would have been 
for him to find £92,000 in April 2018.
Mr H says action could  have been taken against him for embezzlement   although no action  
was taken. I do accept  the upset  and worry this caused and have taken  this into account  
when considering the amount of compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that Santander  UK Plc should pay £300 compensation to Mr H, as it has 
offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9591076