K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the MPPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint   as Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr H says that he doesnt recall a conversation  about MPPI, and he wasnt  aware that it had 
been sold to him. He says that it mustve  been  added automatically to his mortgage. BoS 
isnt able to provide any paperwork  from the time  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took 
place over 20 years ago  and businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely.  I 
understand that this is frustrating for Mr H  but because of the lack of information, I dont 
have enough to say that BoS didnt give Mr H a choice in taking  out the MPPI, so I cant 
uphold his complaint for this reason.
Its likely  BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr H, so it would  have had to check that the MPPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI.  
Mr H responded to our adjudicators view saying that he had ample sick pay from his 
employer  so he didnt need  the cover. But the amount he told us he had was very different 
to what he told us when  he originally brought his complaint  to us. That said,  Im not surprised 
Mr Hs recollections of his circumstances have changed  the sale took place  a long time 
ago. But because of this discrepancy, I cant safely conclude that Mr H didnt  have a need for 
the policy  and in any event, the policy couldve paid out alongside any sick pay Mr H had, 
leaving this free for any other expenses.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the MPPI  to Mr H.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including what hes said about  taking over a year 
off work due to an accident in 1999. He says had he known about  the MPPI, he wouldve 
tried to make a claim.
Ive considered what Mr H has said  and also sought further information from BoS about 
this. BoS has confirmed that there  are details  of a claim against Mr Hs name   but these  are 
Ref: DRN93460002unclear. It says its not able to confirm if the claim was paid, what it was for, or even if it was 
against this MPPI policy. It is not able to provide any more information.  
However, this decision  is about if the policy was mis-sold in 1996  and as Ive explained 
above, I dont  think that it was. So this point doesnt change my conclusion.
Mr H could contact BoS to see if there is any further information BoS could provide him with 
about this issue  (although  given what it told me this seems  unlikely),  or about  the possibility 
of making a backdated claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9346000