K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 1998.  Mrs A says Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs A didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided  a copy  of the credit card 
application form that Mrs A has signed. Under a section called PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PLAN  it gives  two options  for the customer  to choose  from. One 
option says: Yes, I wish to take out Card Payment Protection (at 77p per month per 
£100 outstanding balance) and a second option says:  No, I do not wish to protect  
my Credit Card payments. Each option  is followed  by a tick box and a tick has 
been placed next to the yes option.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, including  what 
Mrs A has told us about her employers  sick pay policy, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
All of which means  Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what she said about the PPI being  
added to her account without her knowledge.  But having seen the credit card application 
form that Mrs A signed, Im satisfied that Mrs A did agree to it - even if its the case that she 
now cant remember doing so. So these points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN94574142my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Thomas white
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9457414