K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained that Letcare Limited were  responsible for removing the contribution  for 
boiler replacement  from his let property emergency insurance. He said he had this cover 
previously and only discovered he no longer had it when he needed to claim. 
Background
Mr D acquired  an investment property in 2006, which  he rents out. In 2011, he took out 
landlords emergency breakdown insurance  with Letcare. This included cover  for a boiler 
deemed uneconomic  to repair.  It said the insurer would pay the lower of 50% of the cost of 
the new boiler and £500.  
In 2014, Letcare emailed Mr D to say they were no longer insuring  let properties. Letcare 
sent Mr D a link to apply  for let property emergency insurance from another provider.  He 
currently remains insured  via this new broker with a new insurer. Ill refer to them as the 
second broker and the second insurer. 
In November 2018, the boiler in Mr Ds property broke down.  He contacted  the claims 
handlers for his policy. They sent out a contractor who said it wasnt  economic to repair  the 
boiler. Mr D asked to claim under the boiler replacement  contribution  cover. The second 
insurer declined this claim, as they said this wasnt covered under his policy.  
Mr D complained to the second broker, Letcare and the second insurer. Letcare didnt reply, 
so Mr D asked our service to look into his complaint against them.  
Our investigator considered the evidence and thought Letcare hadnt done anything  wrong.  
He thought Mr D would have received policy documents  from the second broker in 2014  and 
annually thereafter.  So it wouldnt  be fair to hold Letcare responsible for a policy they had 
had nothing to do with since 2014.
Mr D disagreed. He made a number of points about the circumstances of the contractor 
deciding the boiler couldnt be repaired. He also said Letcare had clearly  given him advice in 
2014, when they sent him to the link to the second  broker. And he asked why would he have 
wanted to move to a different company,  with fewer benefits?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr D but Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why below. 
First, Im satisfied that Mr D was insured at the time of the boiler breakdown with the second 
insurer. Theres no evidence of the existence  of the policy originally arranged through  
Letcare after 2014.  For this reason,  I havent  detailed Mr Ds complaints regarding the 
contractors decision about the boiler.  This is because Im satisfied that this decision was 
nothing to do with Letcare.  So it wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible  for it. 
Mr D has argued  that Letcare gave him advice in 2014, when they shouldnt  have done. I 
can see their email  uses the word advise, but this is in the context of advising him they 
were no longer insuring  let properties   in other  words, as another word for inform or tell. 
Whilst I can see Letcare could have made it clearer that the new policy was just a 
Ref: DRN90037112suggestion, I dont  think they advised him to take it. An advised sale would have involved a 
consideration of his demands and needs to ensure the policy was suitable. Ive seen no 
evidence of this.
Neither do I think the email suggests that Letcare misled Mr D. I think it makes  it clear that 
he needed to take out a new policy elsewhere if he wanted cover to continue. 
Mr D asks why would he have wanted to move  to a different  company, with fewer benefits. I 
dont think he had a choice about  moving, as Letcare  discontinued  his previous cover. And I 
think its more likely  that he failed  to realise  that the new policy he was buying provided 
different cover.  He may not have been focussing  on boiler replacement at the time. But I 
havent seen any evidence that Letcare told him the cover was identical. 
Even if Letcare  had advised Mr D to use the second  broker (and as Ive said,  I dont think  
they did), I dont think this would make Letcare responsible for his current claim. This is 
because the webpage Letcare sent to him just sent him to the start of the second brokers  
application process. From there, Ive seen evidence that he would have had to go through  an 
application process and then been  provided with downloadable documentation, including  
policy wording. This makes it clear what cover is being applied for. So Im satisfied  Mr D 
would have been able to see that replacement boiler  cover wasnt  included. It wasnt  
Letcares responsibility  to ensure Mr D read this before buying the second policy. 
I know Mr D has said he didnt receive  renewal  information, because  of an out of date 
address. He said his policy just automatically  renewed. But it was Mr Ds responsibility to 
ensure his broker had an up-to-date address for him. And it certainly wasnt  Letcares fault if 
the second broker didnt have the correct address. 
In summary,  while I sympathise with Mr Ds frustration that he has only discovered  he hasnt 
got boiler replacement cover when he needed  it, Im not persuaded that Letcare have done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9003711