K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  was misrepresented. He wants  to reject the 
vehicle and receive a refund or a replacement vehicle.
background
Mr K is represented in this complaint by a friend  - Mr Q - but for ease of reading Ill mostly  
refer to Mr K.
Mr K tells us he wanted to purchase a new vehicle  and visited a dealer,  who Ill refer to as 
"V", on 8 January 2018. He says he was shown a vehicle in the showroom which was 
described to him as being a 7 speed  version of the model he had chosen.  And he was given 
a brochure for this model. Mr K says he agreed to the deal involving this vehicle and signed 
an order form. He says the deal included an allowance of £5,000 in relation to his existing 
vehicle. Mr K says a few days  later he was asked by the dealer to sign some  additional 
paperwork in relation to the new vehicle - and he says he did this. Mr K states that when he 
collected the vehicle and drove it away he noticed that it was a 6 speed not a 7 speed  model  
- so he complained  to V. He told us that V is now saying he agreed to accept  the 6 speed  
model - which he denies.
VWFS told us that Mr K had originally ordered a 7 speed model but had agreed to accept a 6 
speed variant as that was already in stock. And that hed signed an order form for the vehicle 
on 8 January. It said hed subsequently signed documents  for the confirmation of registration 
details on 18 January and the terms and conditions of the finance agreement  on 19 January. 
As all the documents referred to a 6 speed  vehicle it thought Mr K was fully aware  he was 
acquiring this variant.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 June  2019.  In my provisional view I 
said I was minded to uphold  the complaint as I thought there  had probably been  a 
misrepresentation over the description  of the vehicle. But I said I did not intend to 
recommend the refund  of the scrappage allowance which  had been applied  in respect of 
Mr Ks previous vehicle.
Since I issued my provisional  decision VWFS has not replied. Mr Ks representative  has 
responded and said he does not agree with my provisional view. Hes emphasised  that Mr K 
didnt want the vehicle but was forced  to use it whilst  the complaint was investigated. And he 
doesnt feel the level of compensation offered is sufficient. Ill deal with individual  aspects of 
the response in my final decision  which is set out below. But as no new information has been 
provided Im not minded  to change my provisional  view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr K has experienced the frustration and upset which has surrounded his 
acquisition of this vehicle. Ive no doubt that he was looking forward  to having what at the 
time was one of the most recent models. So I can understand his sense  of disappointment 
when he realised hed been provided  with a different model to that which hed expected.
Ref: DRN94543102As Mr K is alleging a misrepresentation I should explain our approach to such complaints. I 
dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. A misrepresentation is a false  
statement of fact upon which a consumer relies  and is induced into acting upon it. Mr K 
acquired the vehicle through  a hire purchase  agreement  and under present legislation  - as 
the provider of finance and supplier of the vehicle under this agreement  - VWFS  is equally  
responsible for any misrepresentation  made by V in relation to the vehicle. 
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here -I have to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most  likely explanation to 
account for whats happened. In trying  to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell 
us, and we look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a decision. This is in 
line with our fair and reasonable  remit. 
In this case there is information - including documentary evidence - which is ambiguous  and 
at times contradictory. And it mostly relates  to what  was said and agreed between  Mr K and 
Vs sales agent in the time leading  up to Mr K collecting  the vehicle. Unfortunately the sales 
agent is no longer  employed by V. So its not possible to seek further clarification  of the 
notes and documents which relate  to the circumstances in which  Mr K acquired the vehicle.
Theres no doubt Mr K initially ordered a 7 speed model. And an order  form for this variant 
was prepared on 8 January which he signed. But Ive also been  provided with a copy  of the 
same form - but one which contains  an amendment which shows the 7 speed model being 
crossed out and a 6 speed  model substituted.
VWFS notes record that V explained to it that Mr K had initially  wanted a 7 speed model but 
had agreed to the 6 speed variant  as that was already in stock.  And VWFS  points to the 
"New Vehicle Invoice" form - for the six speed model  - which  it says confirms  the vehicle  was 
ordered on 8 January.  It also says Mr Ks signature appears on the amended  order  form.
I assume the inference they wish me to draw is that Mr K had a change  of mind almost  
immediately and that the change to the order form was made  at that time.
This would potentially be a persuasive  argument - were it not for the fact that Mr K has 
supplied me with a copy of the same order form - but one where the reference to the 7 
speed model is unaltered and there is no mention  of the 6 speed variant.
So I think its probable  that when Mr K left Vs premises on 8 January he was in possession  
of a copy order form relating only to the 7 speed variant.
It also seems  that the change to the order was registered upon Vs system  only on 17 
January. This further implies that the error was discovered sometime  later than 8 January.
The other issue which causes me to doubt the authenticity of the amended order  form is that 
there is no change in price details.  Its not in dispute  that the 7 speed  variant  is more  
expensive than the 6 speed  model.  But both the version supplied  by Mr K and that supplied  
by VWFS  (who I think obtained it from V) have  the same total cost of £28,458.
If, as is being suggested,  the original order form was prepared for the 7 speed model and 
then altered - Id have expected to see a reduced price being  quoted.  And Id have expected 
Mr K to be provided with an amended copy to take with him.
Ref: DRN94543103I also think its probably significant that Mr K is not suggesting that the vehicle with which he 
was supplied was other than the vehicle hed seen  in the showroom. That would be 
consistent with an error  being made  in the vehicle description made  to him and on the 
original order form. And if - as seems likely - it was only later discovered (after Mr K had left) 
that the showroom model was 6 speed and not 7 speed it could account for Vs copy of the 
order form being amended but Mr K still having an unaltered copy  .
When he signed the documents on 18 and 19 January I doubt if Mr K gave much attention to 
any peripheral details  in those papers. He was signing a finance  agreement and a 
registration document. The main  relevance of those documents  (how the vehicle was to be 
paid for and to ensure it was legally  able to be on the road) was not about  the individual  
specifications of the vehicle.
Ive also got to take into account Mr Ks actions  - and whilst they dont prove  there was a 
misrepresentation - they are consistent with him being convinced the wrong vehicle model  
had been supplied. And that it was an important factor  to him.
On a balance  of probabilities I think there  was a misrepresentation regarding the description 
of the specification of this vehicle. I dont think any harm was intended - as in reality Mr K 
was supplied with the vehicle hed seen - and I think the alteration probably arose more out 
of a desire to avoid  embarrassment than any malign intent.
Where we find theres been a misrepresentation our preferred option would be to try and 
restore Mr K to the same position that existed immediately  before the misrepresentation. 
Thats not possible here as its eighteen months on and Mr K has had the use of this vehicle 
throughout this period. Its only fair and reasonable that he should pay for this as even if hed 
got a different vehicle hed still have the expense of running it.
Ive also got to consider that as part of the overall  deal Mr K handed over his existing 
vehicle. But Ive seen  evidence that it was 12 years old, with 212,000 mileage recorded. The 
invoice states  than an allowance of £5,000 - described  as a "Scrappage Upgrade Bonus" 
was made  against  the cost of the new vehicle.
I think its fair and reasonable to treat this as different from a "part-exchange"  allowance.  By 
and large "scrappage schemes" are designed to encourage a customer  to swap an older,  
more polluting vehicle,  for a less environmentally  harmful vehicle. Theres no likelihood the 
exchanged vehicle will be put to further use. And it seems it was scrapped  in this case.
As I intend,  as part of my final decision,  to suggest the agreement should be ended Ive got 
to decide what, if any, redress Mr K should  receive  for his old vehicle.
The finance  agreement was scheduled  to last for 48 months. So the £5,000  allowance had 
the effect of reducing the monthly repayments by at least £100 - and probably more  if 
interest is taken into account.  Whilst this is not an exact calculation I think its fair and 
reasonable to suggest that Mr K has benefitted  to the value  of at least  £1,800  to date. I think 
thats probably more  than the old vehicle was worth  - probably a good  deal more. In my 
provisional view I did say that I would be prepared to reconsider this - if Mr K could show me 
the vehicle he surrendered was worth more than I had estimated. As Ive not been provided 
with anything that contradicts my provisional  view I shant be recommending  any further 
compensation over this aspect.
Ref: DRN94543104Ive also been  told about legal expenses  incurred by Mr K. Although Ive not seen the exact  
nature of these it does  not affect  my view on this matter. There  is no fee charged to a 
complainant to bring a case to this service.  And if a complainant incurs  legal expenses as a 
result of seeking advice  about alternative  means of pursuing his complaint - such  as bringing 
a claim through  the courts - then any costs  would need to be applied for in those 
proceedings. 
In summary,  I think its probable there  was a misrepresentation - and that Mr K should  be 
allowed to reject the vehicle. But Im not intending  to award  any further redress  in respect of 
the vehicle for which the scrappage allowance was made or for legal  costs.
I accept Mr K has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result  of the 
misrepresentation and delays  in VWFSs response during the investigation of this complaint. 
So I intend to recommend  VWFS pays £400 in respect of the distress and inconvenience  for 
which its responsible.
Im aware Mr K and his representative  - whilst  accepting some parts - are unlikely to be 
completely satisfied with all my findings  and recommendations.  And in particular  its already  
been made clear  they feel the overall level of compensation is not sufficient.  I entirely 
respect their view to hold an opinion different to my own and its open to Mr K to accept - or 
reject - my final decision as he sees fit.
But I should respectfully point out that - in order to benefit from those  aspects with which  Mr 
K agrees - it would be necessary for him to accept  the entire decision. Likewise if Mr K 
rejects my final decision then he would able to pursue  all aspects of his complaint by other  
means if he wished to do so. 
But whether  my final decision is accepted or not it brings to an end the involvement of this 
service in seeking an informal resolution  of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited takes the following action to settle  
this complaint:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr K to pay. (This is subject to payments 
due up to the date of termination being  made);
2.Arrange for the vehicle to be collected at no cost to Mr K;
3. Refund the deposit of £300 to Mr K;
4. Pay £400 compensation to Mr K for distress and inconvenience;
5.Subject to the payment  of all sums and charges due under the agreement,  to arrange 
to have the record of the agreement removed from Mr Ks credit file.
Simple Interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added  to item 3 above from date of 
payment to date of settlement.
Ref: DRN94543105Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9454310