K822xcomplaint
Mr A and Miss A complain that they repaid a loan in full in 2008,  a long time before it was 
taken over by Lowell Financial Ltd. Miss A made  monthly  repayments  between 2012 and 
2018. They  complain  the payment arrangement was set up under duress at a time when 
Miss A was vulnerable due to her personal circumstances at the time.
To settle  matters theyd  like the payments Miss A has made  refunded together with interest  
on the monies paid to Lowell.
background 
In January 2002, Mr A and Miss A jointly took out a loan for £7,000  with a business Ill call 
Business One.  In December 2011  Business One sold the balance  of the loan  which then 
stood at £6,344 - to Lowell.  In February 2012 Lowell wrote to explain it had acquired the 
balance of the loan from Business One.
The account  fell into arrears and Lowell sent a number of letters asking for payment. In 
October 2012, Miss A entered into a payment arrangement Lowell. She paid £20 initially and 
thereafter £40 monthly  by Direct Debit. These payments continued  until March 2018  and 
came to a total of £2,660. This brought the balance of the debt down to £3,684.
In April 2018 Mr A contacted Lowell and asked it to refund the payments Miss A had made 
since October 2012 totalling £2,660.  Mr A says Lowell agreed  to make the refund by cheque.  
Mr A asked for a faster refund so Lowell explained that it would be quicker to make a direct 
debit indemnity claim with Miss As bank.
The indemnity claim  was made but Miss As bank only refunded  13 monthly payments 
totalling £520. Mr A and Miss A are unhappy  that Lowell hasnt refunded  the payments as it 
agreed. They complain  that the loan was fully repaid in 2008  long before the loan was 
transferred to Lowell  and that Miss A only agreed  to make the payments under duress 
because she was in a vulnerable position at the time and Lowell took advantage of this.
In June 2018 Lowell issued its final response letter. It said it didnt believe a refund was due. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr A and Miss A referred  their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into their complaint. He recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld in part. He didnt think Lowell should  refund any of payments Miss A had made 
towards the loan.  But he thought Lowell should pay £100 compensation to reflect the 
distress and loss of expectation itd caused by incorrectly telling them they were  entitled to a 
refund when this wasnt the case and not correcting this misunderstanding until it issued its 
final response letter.
Lowell agreed  with the investigators view but Mr A and Miss A dont. So theyve asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Miss A say they fully repaid  their loan to Business One in 2008  before the loan 
was assigned to Lowell. I must explain  that I cant look at this part of their complaint. This is 
because I can only look at the way they were treated by Lowell. And neither can I make a 
Ref: DRN97667912finding about whether or not the debt is properly due and enforceable  as that would be a 
matter for a court to decide. But I am able to consider whether or not Lowell treated Mr A 
and Miss A fairly.
Ive looked at copy statements provided by Business  One to Lowell. The statements record 
that the last payment received by Business One was in May 2008. At this point the 
outstanding balance was £5,362. Theres no record of any further payments being made 
after this date. The outstanding balance increased to £6,344 by December 2008  - due to 
Business One adding  interest and charges. And in December 2011the debt was sold to 
Lowell.
did Lowell apply undue pressure to Miss A? 
Ive seen a copy  of the signed loan agreement made between Miss A, Mr A and Business 
One in December 2001. The loan agreement allows Business One to transfer the debt. It 
also says that Miss A and Mr A are jointly and severally liable for payment of the debt. This 
means that in the event of non-payment  the lender can proceed against either or both of 
them for repayment of the full amount of the debt.
I can see from Lowells  records that it spoke  with Miss A and Mr A on the phone a number 
of times in 2012. Lowell hasnt been able to provide these call recordings,  due to the 
passage of time. But Ive looked at the notes of the conversations  that took place and I 
havent seen anything in them to suggest Lowell placed any undue pressure on Miss A to 
make any payments.
Ive seen that Lowell sent letters  to Miss A in 2012 asking her to repay  £6,344.52.  It also 
sent reminders when  it didnt receive any replies. I dont consider that in sending  these 
letters Lowell placed under pressure  on Miss A or that the letters  were  threatening. Instead 
I think Lowell  set out in its letters the information  lenders are required to give in these 
situations and the consequences of non-payment.
Lowells notes show it spoke with Mr A a number of times in 2012.  He explained again that 
hed repaid the debt owed to Business One by cheque in 2008. Based on the information  
Lowell had been given by Business One I cant say Lowell acted unreasonably or unfairly 
in asking for repayment of the loan because its understanding  was that the loan was due 
and payable as there was no record that it had been  repaid in 2008. And, as Ive explained 
above, because  Mr A and Miss A were  jointly and severally liable for the debt I cant  say 
Lowell acted unfairly in contacting Miss A about repayment of the debt.
I dont have any reason  to doubt Miss A was going thought a difficult time in 2012 when 
she set up the payment arrangement with Lowell. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Lowell 
took advantage of this situation  or put pressure on her. I can see she continued to make 
payments to Lowell for six years without  raising  any concerns during this time so I think  
its unlikely that she made  the payments under  duress. And I think  she fully intended  to 
make the payments.
refund of amounts paid by Miss A
Ive listened to the calls Mr A made  to Lowell  in April 2018. Lowell agreed  to make a refund 
of £2,660 by cheque. Its not clear why it agreed  to do this  given the length of time itd 
been trying  to recover the debt. But later Lowell explained that what  Mr A had been told was 
Ref: DRN97667913a mistake and that itd made clear  to Mr A that he and Miss A werent entitled to a refund 
after all.
Mr A wasnt  happy with the length of time hed have to wait for a cheque to be processed so 
Lowell instead  suggested it would be quicker to make an indemnity claim to recover  the 
money. This was done and Miss As bank refunded £520. However, indemnity claims are 
generally used  in situations where  the payment  hasnt been authorised. But here,  Im 
satisfied that Miss A had authorised the payments to Lowell. And this meant that after 
Miss As bank refunded her £520, it then asked Lowell for reimbursement of the refund it 
had made  and, in turn, Lowell then added this to the amount owed by Mr A and Miss A.
I can understand that Mr A and Miss A will have been very disappointed when they 
thought theyd receive a full refund when that turned out not to be the case. So I think  its 
fair that Lowell should pay compensation to recognise the impact this has had. I think the 
compensatory payment of £100 suggested by the investigator is reasonable in these  
circumstances. I say this for a number of reasons.
Firstly I dont think Mr A or Miss A suffered any financial loss as a result of Lowells 
mistake. Ive mentioned above that after Lowell said it would refund £2,660, another call 
took place later that day in which Lowell explained that it wouldnt be making a refund 
after all. Its unfortunate  that a copy of this call recording isnt available but I dont have 
any reason to doubt the conversation took place  as Ive seen Lowells  notes of the 
conversation. So I think Mr A will have been  aware that Lowell wouldnt be making a 
refund. I think Lowell could nevertheless have handled matters better because a third call 
took place on the same day  about  making an indemnity claim  and Mr A was again led 
to believe he could  make  a claim for the full amount with no reference being made to the 
second call. Lowell didnt make that it wouldnt be making a refund until it issued its final 
response letter in June 2018.
Secondly, Ive already explained  that I cant make a finding about whether or not the debt it 
valid and enforceable. But as Ive seen nothing to suggest the debt was ever repaid in 
2008 I cant say Lowell  treated Mr A and Miss A unfairly by asking them  to repay  it and not 
making a refund of the monies Miss A had paid.  
Miss A continued to make payments towards the debt from 2012 to 2018  which  she never  
disputed during this time. This suggests  to me that its likely that she made the payments 
because she thought the debt was due. So Im not persuaded these payments were  made  
under duress.
I realise Mr A and Miss A will be disappointed by my decision but it brings to an end what  
we, as an informal dispute resolution  service,  can do to resolve their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding  this complaint in part and I require Lowell Financial 
Ltd to pay £100 compensation for the distress  and loss of expectation  caused  by incorrectly  
telling Mr A and Miss A they were  entitled to refund. The £100 compensation is to be offset 
against the outstanding  debt, rather than paid to Mr A and Miss A directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Ref: DRN97667914Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9766791