K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains U K Insurance  Limited offered him too little to settle  his commercial motor  
insurance claim.
background
In May 2019  Mr Bs van was hit by a third party vehicle. He claimed  on his UKI commercial 
motor insurance policy.  The van was considered a total loss. After some discussion UKI 
offered a settlement based on a market value of about £4,700.  Mr B felt that wasnt  high 
enough. After  he complained UKI increased  the valuation to £5,125. Hes still unhappy with 
that. He feels the market  value is higher.
Our Investigator  felt UKI proposed settlement wasnt reasonable. She found it had 
unreasonably included an out of line valuation in its calculations. Based on what  she found  
from trade guides she recommended UKI pay Mr B an extra £390  plus simple interest at 
8%. He accepted that but UKI didnt. So the complaint  has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, UKI will need  to pay 
£390 plus interest.
Mr Bs policy  allows  UKI to choose  either  to pay to repair his vehicle  or pay a cash sum to 
replace it. The policy  says when a cash sum is paid the most UKI will pay is the vehicles  
market value. Market  value is defined as the cost of replacing it with another  of the same 
make and model of a similar age and condition at the time of the loss.  
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a vehicle. When looking into these 
types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer  has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider  information other than trade 
guides, including adverts. But we place  most  weight on the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research  of likely selling prices, so theyre more reliable than individual  adverts. 
And adverts  can be misleading  as often vehicles dont sell for the advertised price. Sale 
prices are often lower after negotiations take place.  
Ref: DRN91624582UKI says its offer of £5,125 is based  on the average of three trade valuation guides. These 
were for about £4,700, £5100 and £5,550.  Our Investigator said it wasnt reasonable to 
include the lowest valuation. I agree  with her. 
UKI arrived at that lowest one by using a trade guide valuation of about £4,000   and then 
increased it manually to about  £4,700.  So its not really a valuation  produced  by one of the 
guides. I accept  it was produced by one of UKIs  engineers. But I still dont think  its fair to 
include it. Its starting point at about £4,000  is out of line with the other  two. Increasing it 
manually by about £700 doesnt make it reasonable to include in an average calculation.
Our Investigator  made the same point to UKI but it didnt accept it. The Investigator  checked  
four guides.  She received a similar £4,000 valuation from the trade  guide  that provided the 
starting point for UKIs lowest. She dismissed that as being out of line with the other three.  
That seems  reasonable  to me - considering  they ranged from about £5,000 to approximately  
£6,000. She found an average  of those three  was £5,515. 
Considering everything  that seems a reasonable market value to me. So UKI will need to 
settle the claim using  a market valuation of £5,515. I understand its already  paid off 
outstanding finance on the vehicle plus a small surplus to Mr B. So based on what  Ive seen 
it will need to pay an additional £390  to him.
Mr Bs been  without the additional £390 because  of UKIs unfair  market  value calculation. To 
make up for him being without those funds it will need to add simple  interest  from the date 
the main settlement was paid to the date of payment  of this additional  amount.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, U K Insurance Limited  will need to pay Mr B £390. It will need 
to add simple interest (at 8% per year) from the date the main settlement was paid to the 
date this additional amount is paid*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
 
*If UKI considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN9162458