K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in October 2002. BoS 
said that the PPI sale took place in a meeting  and that it advised Mr and Mrs M to take out 
the policy. Mr and Mrs M said that they werent given a choice about taking out the PPI. 
They also said they had good employee  benefits so they didnt need it. 
The PPI cover was part of a package of cover called Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan  
(TMPP). Each element of the plan had a separate cost, and different combinations of cover  
were available. Mr and Mrs M have complained about the PPI elements of the cover 
(disability and unemployment) so this decision only refers to those.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr M at a monthly cost 
of £10.17. The total monthly benefit was £167.67.  If hed made a successful claim, the policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed,  and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of its computer records of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account, along  with 
a copy of the mortgage declaration that Mr and Mrs M signed and which  included  reference 
to the PPI cover. BoS couldnt provide any other  documentation from the time of the sale, 
but this is not entirely surprising given that this all happened over 16 years ago and the 
mortgage has since been repaid. So Ive also taken into account  what  we know about similar 
BoS sales from around the same time. 
Mr and Mrs M complained that they werent  given a choice about taking the PPI. As it was 
sold during a meeting, I cant know how the adviser might have explained the PPI. And as 
Ive said, I have a limited amount of documentation from the time of the sale.  But I think that 
the PPI is likely to have been discussed with Mr and Mrs M to some degree to determine 
that cover  was only required for Mr M rather than both of them. I have no evidence  to say 
that the PPI was compulsory, and taking account of the information provided  here,  and what 
we know about  similar sales, I have no reason to think that the PPI was presented as being 
so. So on balance, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs M were  given a choice about the 
cover and decided  to take it.
From the evidence I have,  I think BoS advised  Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy, so it 
shouldve made  sure it was suitable them. I think it was.
Ref: DRN92005652As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things  not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr M (as the insured) wouldve been affected by any of these. 
Mr M said he wouldve been entitled to twelve months sick pay from his employer,  and that 
he and Mrs M had between six and twelve months savings at the time of the sale.
I accept that Mr M said he had good employee  benefits. But I think  Mr and Mrs M could 
reasonably have wanted to protect what was an important commitment,  secured on their 
home. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months in the event 
of a successful claim  for redundancy as well as accident or sickness. 
Its not clear how and when the cost of the PPI was disclosed, but Ive no evidence  to 
suggest that cost was an issue. So overall, although I cant  say for certain that BoS clearly 
explained all of the policy details, on balance I think Mr and Mrs M would still have bought  
the policy. It couldve provided useful protection if Mr M had been unable  to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr and Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9200565