K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited (Admiral)  unfairly declined  a 
claim on their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W left for a cruise on 5 December 2017. A family member  attended the property 
on 8 and 11 December  and found  no issues. On 14 December, the council and police broke  
into the property  and discovered  an escape of water. The council turned off the water and 
secured the property.
A family member was notified  on 15 December and returned to the property  with an 
insurance standard lock the same  day. She notified Mr and Mrs W about the incident.
Mr and Mrs W returned home as soon as they could on 20 December to inspect the 
damage. They raised a claim with Admiral and found alternative accommodation.
A surveyor called  Mr and Mrs W, confirmed  how long theyd been away,  and brought up the 
5-day non-occupancy  term on the policy. Mr and Mrs W said they werent  aware of this term 
 they said the policy  stated a 30-day non-occupancy term in bold on the front of the 
document. Admiral  then declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs W appealed to Admiral  to reconsider the claim. Admiral said Mr and Mrs W 
didnt meet the criteria  for the claim to succeed. They  said that when the property was empty  
for more than 5 days, Mr and Mrs W needed to have the heating set permanently to 12 
degrees, and couldve  drained  down the water pipes to comply with the term.
Mr and Mrs W complained  saying if they were  made aware of these requirements,  they 
wouldve made sure they were done  before they left for their cruise. They didnt hear back 
from Admiral for some months so began repair work themselves. They stayed with another 
family member and negotiated with contractors to do the work  at an affordable price. After  a 
couple of months,  they were able to move back in and continued to repair  their property.
As Mr and Mrs W hadnt heard back from Admiral,  they brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the term Admiral  relied  on to decline the 
claim was unusual. He felt that Admiral shouldve done more  to bring this term to 
Mr and Mrs Ws attention. He couldnt see any mention of the 5-day non-occupancy term in 
the 2017 renewal  documents.  He also felt that Mr and Mrs W wouldve taken the necessary 
steps to comply with the policy terms if theyd been aware of them.
Admiral disagreed. It said the 5 day non-occupancy term was disclosed to Mr and Mrs W in 
the policy schedule.  It referred to page 21 of a 64-page policy  booklet  where  the term was 
highlighted.
Admiral has asked an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to 
make a decision.
Ref: DRN94928522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ill be upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
In determining this complaint  Ive considered whether its fair for Admiral to rely on the 5 day 
non-occupancy exclusion,  and whether this was clearly presented to Mr and Mrs W when 
they took out the policy.
Admiral says the information  was available to Mr and Mrs W and included in the home policy  
schedule and key facts leaflet sent out at renewal.  Admiral has also referenced  a copy of the 
policy booklet it says Mr and Mrs W wouldve seen at the time they renewed the policy.
Im not persuaded that the policy booklet Admiral  referred to applies to Mr and Mrs Ws 
policy. I say this because  it hasnt provided any copies of the renewal documents for 
February 2017, or any other evidence to support this point.  
Mr and Mrs W have  provided the only copy of their policy schedule. Theyve also provided  a 
policy booklet, which isnt dated, but which they say they were told to download by Admiral  
after they complained. So I cant be sure this is the same booklet they wouldve had access  
to when they took out the policy.
The February 2017 Home  Policy  Schedule  Mr and Mrs W have  provided  clearly states the 
days unoccupied  limit as 30 days. I can see no indication, or reference  to another  part of the 
schedule, which would  suggest this could be different. I cant see the 5 day term is present in 
the schedule for Admiral  to rely on. So I dont agree with Admirals position, and I think  the 
claim should be accepted.
Because Admiral  initially declined  Mr and Mrs Ws claim, theyve now had to start repairing 
their property. And because I think the claim shouldve been accepted, I think  Admiral  should 
reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the costs theyve incurred  in repairing their property.
Our investigator has also recommended Admiral pays an allowance  to Mr and Mrs W at a 
rate of £10 a day each for the time the property was uninhabitable. I think this is reasonable. 
I say this because  Mr and Mrs W have told us they stayed with a family member  during this 
time. They said they made daily trips to and from the house  to start repairs  and make it 
habitable. And I think its likely they incurred extra costs for things like petrol and food during 
this time. So I agree  Mr and Mrs W should be reimbursed  for the 59 days the property was 
uninhabitable.
Mr and Mrs W have  provided Admiral  and me with a list of costs  incurred, along with some  
detailed testimony about  how theyve tried to keep costs down. I am also mindful they 
cleared out the majority  of the damaged interior without the support of a contractor to which  
they were reasonably entitled. So I think Admiral should also compensate them  for the 
trouble and upset  this has caused. Our investigator  recommended a compensation payment 
of £400 for this and having  considered everything, I think this fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W.
Ref: DRN94928523my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited  must:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the costs theyve incurred in repairing their property, in 
line with the remaining  terms  and conditions of the policy;
Pay simple interest  of 8% per year on the sums  above, from the date the payments 
were made, to the date of settlement  ;
Pay Mr and Mrs W a total allowance of £1,180  for the 59 days the property  was 
uninhabitable;
Pay Mr and Mrs W £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much has been taken 
off. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should  give Mr and Mrs W a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9492852