K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Mi Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island Vehicle Finance 
(MIVF) wont return his deposit  when  it allowed  him to end his finance agreement. He would 
like his £1,000  deposit refunded.
background
Mr H says he bought  a used car on 6 August 2018 paying a £1,000 deposit and financing  
the balance of £11,950 through  MIVF with a Personal Contract  Purchase  (PCP)
.
He says he had a problem with the car repeatedly  stalling upon starting from November 
2018. But the fault couldnt be replicated  when  it was looked at. 
Mr H says he took some videos which showed  the car showing a stop/start message on one 
video. And an instruction  to press the brake  pedal  and select gear again on the second 
video.
He says in December 2018  he asked  MIVF if he could reject the car. At that point MIVH 
arranged an independent inspection which Mr H felt showed there was a problem.
He says MIVF offered him two options.  He could  either have the manufacturer  inspect the 
car. And if a fault was found MIVF would cover  the cost of repair.  Or it would take back the 
car and end Mr Hs agreement.
Mr H said he chose to hand the car back. But he doesnt feel its fair that MIVF  retained  his 
deposit. He says MIVF originally said it would return the deposit  and wouldnt  seek  to 
recover any loss on the sale of vehicle. But it retained the deposit and charged him for the 
loss on sale.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She found the independent inspection was 
inconclusive. And as no fault had been  found she didnt  think it was reasonable for MIVF  to 
refund Mr Hs deposit.
MIVF accepted this view but Mr H didnt.
Mr H said the independent  report described  the car as stalling mid journey which  was 
dangerous. In his view this confirmed there  was a fault with the car. He added that his own 
video evidence showed the fault occurring.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.
She said the independent report said there  may be an electrical  issue  which  could occur  at 
anytime. But may not have been  present at the point of sale.  She explained that the finance 
provider was only responsible for faults  present or developing at the point of sale.  And the 
report concluded that the matter would need  further investigation. Not that an actual fault 
had been identified.
She added that as the fault occurred after Mr H had the car for thirty days Mr H should have 
allowed the car to be repaired. But Mr H but had chosen not to do this. As such she didnt 
feel a fault had been confirmed. And on that basis didnt feel it was fair to ask MIVF to refund 
Mr Hs deposit.
Ref: DRN92494712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly about  this so I realise he is going to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Mr H took out his PCP in August 2018  but by November  2018 had problems with the car 
stalling. We would normally  say that, with problems  within six months of the point of sale,  its 
up to the finance provider  to confirm if any problems were present or developing  at the point  
of sale. And if there are we would normally consider it reasonable to allow  the finance 
provider one opportunity to repair  any fault.
I appreciate Mr H took his car in to be looked at when the problem first arose  but as the fault 
couldnt be replicated clearly no repair could be carried  out.
When Mr H asked to reject  the car MIVF arranged an independent inspection. That was 
helpful. And what we would  have  expected  it to do.
These reports often definitively confirm if there are faults or not. And if so if they were 
present or developing at the point  of sale. They are also independent. So usually we place a 
lot of weight on these.
I have read the independent report very carefully  and I dont agree with Mr Hs assessment 
of it. The report says an issue may be present but even if it is it couldnt confirm  if it would 
have been present or developing at the point of sale. It said further  investigation would be 
needed and it maybe that the car was operating correctly.
Had MIVF  not offered, and not already  taken  the car back,  I dont think I would have 
concluded that was sufficient evidence  in the report and with the video evidence Mr H 
provided, for me to have  told MIVH to allow the car to be rejected.
I can see from the information provided that MIVH offered Mr H two options. Firstly, as the 
independent report  suggested, further  investigation  with a commitment  to repair  if a fault was 
found. Secondly to take the car back. But to retain  the monthly  payments Mr H had already 
made.
I think these two offers were reasonable ones to make.
I have seen the email  correspondence between MIVH  and Mr H over these two offers.  Mr H 
asks about the deposit. I think MIVH makes it clear that its offer to take back  the car doesnt 
include refunding  Mr Hs deposit. 
Mr H has told us that MIVH  had previously said it would return  his deposit but changed its 
mind. Unfortunately  whilst  Mr H may have understood that, I havent  seen any evidence  to 
support that.
I have considered very carefully if its fair to ask MIVH  to refund Mr Hs deposit.  Usually  
when cars are rejected we automatically say deposits should be refunded.
Ref: DRN92494713But I dont feel this is a case of a car being  rejected in the usual  way. MIVH has said it 
offered the two options to Mr H as a way of breaking a stalemate  as Mr H and MIVH 
interpreted the independent report in different  ways.   From the email trail between  MIVF  and 
Mr H I feel that is a reasonable assessment  of MIVFs position.  So on that basis I dont feel 
that our usual redress for rejection  applies  here.
I think MIVH gave Mr H two options.  One of which  was to return the car. It made it clear that 
it would  retain his payments. And it wouldnt  return his deposit. 
Mr H didnt have to accept  those terms. He could have chosen further investigation  and 
repair instead. But he didnt. He opted  to return the car. I do appreciate  Mr H didnt feel the 
car was safe and so I can understand why he made the choice he did. 
But as MIVF made it clear  that if it took back the car it wouldnt return Mr Hs deposit. And Mr 
H chose return over further investigation  and repair I dont think I can now reasonably ask 
MIVF to return  Mr Hs deposit.
Mr H has also made  the point that MIVF said it wouldnt charge him for any loss on the sale 
of the car. As I understand it there was a loss. But MIVF  has confirmed it wont charge  Mr H 
for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9249471