K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
between 1993  and 2000. Mr G says Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr G aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the policies to his cards. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr G applied  for 
his cards and PPI and there is limited information available from the time. But this isnt 
surprising considering how long ago the sale took place and that businesses  arent  required  
to keep this type of information indefinitely. From  the information that is available Im unable  
to say that Lloyds  didnt  make it clear that the polices were  optional, or that Mr G didnt  
choose to have them.
Mr G has told us he wasnt given advice about the policies. There is a greater  burden  on 
businesses when they give advice about  PPI and as Lloyds has been unable to provide 
much information about the sale it has considered Mr Gs complaint on the basis  that it did 
give advice. If Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Mr G it would of had to check that the PPI 
was right for him. Mr G has told us that he was entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay 
when he applied for his card. He also had some savings. But the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to his sick pay and for longer.  It would  also have paid out in circumstances other 
than redundancy  and allowed him to keep  his savings  in place so they could be used 
towards other expenses. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.  
Ref: DRN93993042Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9399304