K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  a term assurance policy by a representative  
of Sesame Limited. They say they already had sufficient cover  in place and that the policy 
was forced  upon  them.
background
The policy was sold to Mr and Mrs M in 2000. Our investigator explained that the regulatory 
rules relating  to this type of policy  being sold by financial advisers were different at that time 
to those of today.
She explained that in 2000, Sesame was part of the Mortgage Code Compliance Board 
(MCCB)  a voluntary scheme to which lenders and mortgage brokers  could sign up. This 
meant Sesame was covered by the Mortgage  Code Arbitration  Scheme (MCAS)  the 
complaint handling scheme  for the MCCB. 
The investigator explained that she could  therefore only consider  whether Sesame had 
complied with the standards specific to the sale of insurance set out at the time by the 
MCCB. These were, in brief, that advisers  must; 
Give a description of the insurance  services  it could  arrange.
Explain whether it was a condition of the associated mortgage that such insurance  
was taken out  and whose responsibility  it was to ensure the insurance was taken  
out.
Explain whether the cover  had to be arranged by Sesame
Give a general description of costs
The investigator said that the application  form signed by Mr and Mrs M had made clear they 
were applying for term assurance for a repayment mortgage. So she was satisfied Sesame  
had given a description of the services being arranged.
She said that although there were no documents  detailing the advice she felt, on balance,  
that Mr and Mrs M would've been provided  with a mortgage offer that wouldve had a section 
explaining what cover,  if any, was mandatory. The investigator said Sesame  had confirmed 
to her that it had not been a condition of the mortgage to have the policy in place. So, the 
investigator felt it was most likely  the mortgage  offer would've said the same  thing. So she 
felt Sesame would've made it clear the policy wasn't  a condition of the mortgage.  The 
investigator also noted that the application  form had set out the costs of the policy.  
In summary,  the investigator felt Sesame had met the MCCB requirements in providing its 
advice to Mr and Mrs M, so she didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  view, so the matters  been referred to me to 
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN98107102Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
Theres little I can usefully  add to what the investigators already said.  As noted, because of 
the way regulation worked at the time of the sale we are limited in scope when considering  
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. And against that background, Im satisfied, on balance, that 
Sesames representative  met the MCCB requirements when selling the product to Mr and 
Mrs M.    
I note that their complaint has been primarily driven  by their view that they already had 
sufficient cover in place through their employment.  I think its worth highlighting that even if 
we were able to look more generally at the suitability of the advice, its unlikely wed 
conclude that it was wrong to recommend dedicated  mortgage  cover.  Its widely accepted  
that its sensible to put in place specific cover for a large new liability like a mortgage as 
employment-related cover, however comprehensive,  isnt guaranteed to remain  in place.      
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9810710