K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with her chargeback claim.
background
Mrs S bought a second hand  car on 10 September 2017 for £1850  with her Nationwide  debit 
card. She says the car was defective and spent some time trying  to have the defects 
diagnosed. Mrs S says she asked  Nationwide to raise a chargeback but it didnt  deal with 
that request  appropriately. She says she spoke to a number of Nationwides  advisors 
repeating details of the problem and was eventually  told she needed to return  the car. Mrs S 
says she was promised  that she would receive the money  back  and that Nationwides delays 
meant that the garage that she bought  the car from was able to dissolve the business.  Mrs S 
also says that Nationwide unfairly rejected the chargeback but still took the £1850  from her 
account even  though  it had not refunded her money.
Nationwide says Mrs S contacted it on 3 November 2017 to raise a chargeback. It says it 
told her that the car would need  to be returned and says it paid the fee for that of £133. 
Nationwide says it raised a dispute but it was successfully defended. It accepts that it 
shouldnt have taken  the money  out of Mrs Ss account but says its apologised for that and 
returned the money the next day. Nationwide has paid £250 compensation for the way it 
handled the dispute.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Nationwide had dealt fairly 
with it by apologising and paying a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation. The 
adjudicator explained the chargeback process  and that Nationwide wasnt  responsible for 
deciding the claim. The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide  could be held responsible  for the 
second hand car business closing down.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and would like the cost of the car refunded. She says 
Nationwide hasnt acknowledged the extent that it misled her and it should accept more 
responsibility for its actions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mrs S will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  happened 
and that shes  been left without the car and her money.
The adjudicator has explained that a chargeback isnt a right but a voluntary scheme run by 
the card providers and not as in this case by Nationwide. It doesnt automatically mean that 
a person raising a chargeback gets his or her money  back but we would normally expect  a 
business to raise a chargeback. I can see that Nationwide did raise a chargeback and I think  
correctly advised  Mrs S under the scheme rules that she would  need  to return  the car. Im 
satisfied that the chargeback was successfully  defended, which was decided  by the card 
provider and not Nationwide. So I dont think Nationwide  could have done any more to 
resolve the dispute or that it was responsible for the decision  to reject it.
I accept that Mrs S believes the chargeback  should have been successful and Ive read the 
garage report on the car which  says it needed expensive repairs.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think Nationwide  made  that decision. I appreciate Mrs S says that the delay  
Ref: DRN98997172in progressing the chargeback meant  the business that sold her the car was able to dissolve 
it. But I think Nationwide was subject  to the scheme  time rules outside its control. And I think 
that there  would have  been a delay in any event if Mrs S had issued court proceedings. And 
having read the letters from the garage owner to Mrs S I think  it highly  likely  any court 
proceedings would have  been defended which would  have led to a similar delay  and a 
similar result-  namely the business being dissolved.
There is no question here that Nationwide could  have dealt with this chargeback  more  
appropriately and there is no doubt it made  mistakes.  I dont think it could have done any 
more to have  changed  the outcome but Im sure its mistakes would have caused Mrs S 
distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied  that the main mistake it made was in taking the 
cost of the car of £1850 out of Mrs Ss account  when the money hadnt been refunded in the 
first place. But Im also satisfied that Nationwide has apologised for its mistake  and paid 
what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £250.
I appreciate that Mrs S says Nationwide should pay further compensation and should  
acknowledge the extent that it misled  her. And I accept that Mrs S was forced  to explain her 
position to a number of Nationwide  staff. But I also think  that Nationwide  wasnt responsible 
for all of the delays here and was subject  to the card provider rules and that it appeared to 
take nearly a month for Mrs S to arrange the return of the car.
Overall I cant  fairly order Nationwide to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I hope  Mrs S will consider other methods  to try and resolve matters but I accept 
that her options are limited due to the actions of the garage.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  has paid a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9899717