K820x#14summary
1. This dispute is about the sale in 1997 of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to 
support a charge card (with the number  ending 9676) sold by Marks & Spencer  
Financial Services Plc, who were acting on behalf of Allianz.
2. I cannot consider  this complaint  against Marks & Spencer Financial Service  Plc 
directly. This is because the sale occurred before 12 April 2001, before that firm, or 
its predecessor-in-title, were  regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) 
for insurance intermediation activities, or were  otherwise covered by our jurisdiction 
(for example through membership of a former  scheme such  as the Banking 
Ombudsman Scheme). As a result, in the rest of this decision I will refer only to 
Allianz unless it is appropriate  to differentiate between Allianz  and its agent,  for 
example in the application of codes of practice.
3. Mr S complains  that Allianz  did not properly explain the policys  features, exclusions 
and limitations. If it had, he says he would not have taken the policy out.
4. Allianz considers the sale met the standards  expected of it at the time. But in any 
event, it says,  Mr S would  have  taken out the policy even if it had given him clearer 
information, so it does not think  he lost out.
5. I have carefully consider ed all of the evidence and arguments submitted by both 
sides, in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reaso nable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
6. This is not a straightforw ard complaint,  with both parties making  credible arguments  
in support of their positions. But for the reasons I explain in detail  below, I have 
decided to determine the complaint in favour  of Allianz, to the extent that I have not 
made an award in favour of Mr S.
7. This is a final decision.  In summary,  based on the evidence and arguments submitt ed, 
my conclusions are as follows:
Mr S made his decision to take out the policy based on the information  Allianz  
gave him about the policy.
Taking into account the law, industry  codes of practice and what I consid er to 
have been good  practice in 1997 (there were no applicable regulations at the 
time), Allianz should  fairly and reasonably have  provided Mr S with sufficient 
clear, fair and not misleading information  about the policy  it was offering to 
enable him to make an informed decision about whether to take it out.
Allianz  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S. Allianz did not 
provide Mr S with sufficient information about the costs, benefits, exclusions 
and limitations affecting the cover in a clear, fair and not misleading way to 
enable Mr S to make  an informed choice  about  whether to take out the policy.  
Mr S made his decision to take out the policy based on incomplete and 
inaccurate information. But if things had happened as they should, on the 
evidence available in this case, it is more likely than not Mr S would still have 
taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN96538442It would not be fair in those circumst ances to make an award to compensate  
Mr S for the money he spent in connec tion with the policy.
8. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required t ask Mr S to 
accept or reject  my decision  before  19 July 2019.
background to the complaint
a) events  leading up to the complaint
9. Mr S applied  for the charge  card on 8 April 1997. The application form was filled in  
in a store  requesting both the card and Payment Protection. 
10. Mr S requested  a credit limit of £500.
11. The application for the card was successful and Mr S has made use of the account 
over the intervening  years.  
12. As I understand  it, the card account  and PPI policy  are still active.
b) Mr Ss circumstances in 1997
13. The charge  card application form Mr S signed contains some  information about his 
circumstances at the time. He was a homeowner, he was working  as a computer 
manager and had been with his employer for 14 years  and his gross  annual income 
was less than £28,000. He also had life cover and a company pension.
14. Separately,  Mr S has told us that:
-He had worked for his employer for four years when he applied for the card 
and was earning £42,000 a year. 
- He would have received at least six months  full pay (but less than 12 
months pay) if he was off work  due to sickness or accident. He also would 
have received some  redundancy pay and had death  in service  benefit.
- He would not have any other way of making his card repayments if he wasnt able 
to work.
- He was past retirement  age and so may not have  been eligible for the policy.  
However Mr S. has now said that this part of his complaint can be disregarded  
as he agrees that he was in fact 31 years  old in 1997.
15. I am satisfied it is more likely  than not that Mr S is mistaken in his recollection  and 
that the point of sale documentation provides an accurate record of his income  and 
length of service. 
16. Mr S hasnt specified the amount of redundancy  pay he thinks  he would have 
received. The statutory redundancy  provisions that applied at the time meant he 
would have been entitled to half a weeks pay for each year of employment in which  
he was under 22 and a weeks pay for each year of employment  when he was 
between the ages of 22 and 40.  In Mr Ss case that would  equate to a statutory right 
to nearly three  months pay from his employer were he made redundant.
Ref: DRN96538443c) the policy  what was Allianz selling and what did Mr S buy?
17. Allianz has provided a copy of the full terms and conditions it says  and which I accept 
on the balance of probabilities  applied to polici es like Mr Ss sold in 1997.
18. The terms and conditions were set out in a three page Certificate of Insurance 
document. Among  other things,  these show that:
- There were eligibility criteria, which Mr S met  for example he had to be 18 or 
over, but less than 65 and working  at the start date. The cover would end 
when he reached  65.
- The policy provided life cover  it would pay off the amount Mr S owed on 
his card in the event  of his death  up to a maximum of £30,000.
- The policy provided disability cover.  Broadly,  if Mr S was unable  to carry out the 
duties of his work  due to injury,  sickness or disease, it would pay a fixed  amount 
(usually equal to 15% of the outstanding balance at the start of the claim), each 
month, until the disability came  to an end, or until the outstanding balance  at the 
start of the disability was cleared.
-The policy would provide unemployment benefits. Broadly, the policy  would pay 
a fixed amount (usually equal to 15% of the outstanding balance at the point Mr 
S knew he would  become unemployed), each month, until Mr S ceased  to be 
unemployed, or the outstanding balance at the start of the claim was repaid.
- The policy would have  paid out after 14 consecutive days of time off for 
disability or 28 consecutive days for time off due to unemployment.
19. To put the benefits into context, I have calculated roughly what  would happen to 
Mr Ss account, assuming he made  a successful claim after spending £500 on his 
card on purchases.
20. The calculation  assumes: a 1.96% per month  interest rate (the rate charged on 
purchases), the PPI cost 64p per £100 of balance and that the minimum payment 
was 5% of the monthly balance or £10 (as the application form shows  was the case).
21. I began by looking at what would happen  over a 12-month  period. But as the table 
below shows, the policy would  not only have  covered the contractual monthly 
minimum payment, but would  have cleared the balance on the account after nine 
months.
Month Opening balance
Spend PPI premium
Interest Insurance payment
Closing balance
Minimum payment
1 £0.00 £500.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £500.00 £0.00
2 £500.00 £0.00 £2.78 £9.82 £75.00 £437.61 £25.00
3 £437.61 £0.00 £2.38 £8.60 £75.00 £373.58 £21.88
4 £373.58 £0.00 £1.96 £7.34 £75.00 £307.88 £18.68
5 £307.88 £0.00 £1.53 £6.05 £75.00 £240.46 £15.39
6 £240.46 £0.00 £1.09 £4.72 £75.00 £171.27 £12.02
7 £171.27 £0.00 £0.64 £3.37 £75.00 £100.27 £10.00
Ref: DRN965384448 £100.27 £0.00 £0.17 £1.97 £75.00 £27.42 £10.00
9 £27.42 £0.00 £0.00 £0.54 £27.96 £0.00 £0.00
10 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
11 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
12 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
13 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00
22. Returning to the policy terms and conditions, there were also exclusions  for 
example, claims resulting from pre-existing medical conditions which Mr S knew, or 
should have known about, were  not covered (albeit with some time limits). The policy 
excluded any physical defect,  infirmity, disease or previously diagnosed condition  
and any subsequent associated complaint for which you were  treated within  the 
twelve months before  you applied  for this policy.
23. Part of Mr Ss complaint (as I explain below) is that the policy was poor value 
because it excluded  or limited claims arising from back  injury and mental  health  
issues. Whilst the policy required Mr S to provide satisfactory proof of disability to 
make a claim, including  providing  a certificate  from his doctor, it did not exclude back  
or mental health conditions, or place any additional restrictions or more onerous 
evidential requirements on claims relating to back and mental  health  issues  than 
would have applied  to any other disability.
24. However, Mr S told us that he had no pre-existing health  problems  at the time of the 
sale, so Ive no reason to think he would have been affected by this exclusion.
d) the complaint and Allianzs response
25. Mr Ss representative Claims Advice  Bureau  (CAB) has made lengthy and substantia l 
representatio ns on his behalf.
26. I will not re-state them all here and I will refer to some of the specific representations 
he has made  at relevant times in this decision . But I have read and considered them 
all carefully.  In essence, Mr S says:
Allianz did not give him the information  it should have given him about the costs 
and benefits associated with the policy. 
It was not enough  to say the premium  was 64p per £100  of outstanding balance. 
The true costs were  much higher as the premiums  were added to the account 
attracting interest (which compounded over time) and the premiums  would  
continue to be charged during the period of a successful claim, reducing the 
benefit. This meant the policy was both expensive and represented exceptionally 
poor value.
Allianz did not tell him about the poor value of the policy, which  is illustrated by 
the low claims  ratio,  which Mr S says was an average of 14% for these policies. 
So on average this means  that only 14% was going towards providing the 
insurance benefits. The rest paid for costs and profits. Allianzs failure to explain 
this to him was a breach of the common law duty of utmost  good  faith.
Allianz did not tell him about the limitations  affecting the policy,  in particular: that 
the policy would only pay out if he was unable  to do both his own job and other 
Ref: DRN96538445work which the insurer thought he was reasonably qualified  to do; and that claims 
arising from back injury and mental health  were subject to restrictions and 
evidential requirements  which  significantly reduced  the cover  provided by the 
policy and the prospects  of making  a successful claim. This reduced further the 
policys value, particularly  as those conditions are the cause of the most common  
reasons for long-term absence.
The common law duty of utmost good faith meant Allianz  should  have  done  more 
than simply draw  the limitations  to his attention, it should also have explained  the 
significance of them and the affect  they would have on his chances of making  a 
claim.
These were substantial flaws in the sale process. Had he known the true cost of 
the policy, the limits on the cover and its poor value, he would not have taken it 
out  that would  have  been the logical outcome, given  the seriousness of the 
failings.
In any event, FCAs guidance at DISP App 3.6.2 E makes it clear  that it should  be 
presumed he would not have taken  out the policy unless there is evidence to 
outweigh the presumption. I am required  to take that provision  into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable and should not depart from it, other than in 
exceptional circumstances  when there  is sufficiently good reason  to take a 
different approach.
Allianz should pay compensation to put him in the position he would have  been  in 
if he had not taken out the policy.
27. Allianzs representations were set out in its response to Mr Ss complaint. In summary it 
has stated:
Mr S applied for his credit card in store on 8 April 1997 and the PPI would have  
been presented as being optional at that point. Allianz noted that Mr S ticked the 
section of the application form relating to PPI.
No advice or recommendations would have been given about the PPI. The store  
assistants did not provide  financial  advice.  
Sufficient information would have been provided at the point of sale for Mr S to 
make an informed  decision, including about the cost. He would also have  been  
sent the full details  of the policy  after he took out the card,  as well as regular 
updates.
Overall, it said there was no evidence  that the policy was mis-sold.
the parties representations in response to the provisional decision
28. Allianz had nothing  further to add following  the provisional decision..
29. Mr Ss representative also had nothing further  to add following the provisional  
decision.
Ref: DRN96538446my findings
30. Although  I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and consider ed 
all the evide nce and arguments  available to me from the outset,  in order  to decide  
what  is, in my opinion, fair and reaso nable  in all the circumst ances of the case.
a) relevant considerations
31. When considering what  is fair and reasonable,  I am required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, 
relevant codes of practice; and where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been good  
industry practice at the time.
32. This sale took place in 1997 before  the General Insurance Standards  Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general  insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So the GISC code, the FSAs 
(and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this complaint
33. Allianz was the insurer, not the lender. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment  in Plevin1 
about s140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA recently about 
the handling of complaints about the non-disclo sure of commission  in the light of the 
Plevin judgment  arent applicable either.
34. But there were a number of industry  codes in existence at the time, which I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   the ABI Code
35. First introduced in 1989 and updated in March 1996, the ABI Code set out a 
framework of general principles within which ABI members  and intermediaries  were 
expected to sell general insurance,  including payment protection  policies  like this. 
Among other things, it said that:
It shall be an overriding obligation of an intermediary at all times  to conduct business  
with utmost good faith and integrity.
The intermediary should:
ensure as far as possible that the policy proposed is suitable to the needs and 
resources of the prospective policyholder.
explain all the essential provisions of the cover afforded by the policy,  or 
policies, which he is recommending, so as to ensure  as far as possible that the 
prospective policyholder understands what he is buying.
draw attention to any restrictions  and exclusions  applying  to the policy.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN96538447Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
36. The ABI also issued guidance  to member companies on the application  of the ABI 
code and a note summarising the main points  of that guidance.
37. The Guidance  Notes  for Intermediaries issued in December 1994  included:
When selling  insurance intermediaries must
...2.5 Explain the essential provisions  of the insurance cover, draw attention to any 
restrictions and exclusions under it, as well as the consequences of non-disclosure
2.13 If an independent intermediary, disclose commission on request
38. The Resum for Intermediaries published  in July 1999  explained how insurers  
should interpret  some of the key requirements of the ABI Code including:
Explain all the essential provisions
It is necessary for the intermediary (insurer,  if dealing  direct) to provide an overview 
of the policy. The detail will vary depending on the particular class of insurance. 
However, the proposer  should have a reasonable understanding  of what  he is 
buying, whether  this is explained  orally or whether he is given a summary and his 
attention  drawn to the main points.  In this respect, it is important to recognise  the 
responsibility under  the ABI Statement  of General Insurance Practice that insurers 
will work towards clearer  policy  wordings.
The intermediary is not expected to go through all the provisions and exclusions in 
detail. The important  feature is to identify  the level of cover  being provided (for 
example, in the case of household contents  whether it is indemnity  or new  for old), 
that the type of policy being  sold suits the circumstances of the proposer and the 
level of protection  they are seeking  as far as possible. It is not good enough simply to 
offer, for example,  an indemnity basis of cover  without explaining the limitations and, 
indeed, that other options are available, unless,  of course, the proposer wittingly asks 
for that type of cover.
Draw attention  to any restrictions and exclusions
The same general principles outlined above  apply equally here.  Certain exclusions, 
conditions, restrictions etc under a particular policy will be common to all 
policyholders, for example, a condition about fraud. In those circumstances, it would 
not be necessary  to identify these other than by reference to general exclusions 
applying to all policyholders  of a particular  type of insurance, either  orally  or in 
policyholder documentation.
However, some will be more relevant  and, indeed, significant to certain  but not other 
policyholders. An example would  be where  benefit  to self-employed people  is either 
excluded or severely  restricted for redundancy cover under a creditor  insurance  
policy. Clearly,  self-employed  people  should be made aware of this so they can 
decide whether  the other benefits under the policy and the premium to be paid 
justifies taking out such a policy.
Ref: DRN96538448The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
39. The ABI also published a statement in December 1996 about  PPI. Among other 
things, it said:
Providers will give sufficient detail of the essential provisions of the cover afforded by 
the policy so as to ensure, as far as is possible,  that the prospective insured person 
understands what he/she is buying.
In particular:
the suitability of a contract will be explained to those who are self-employed,  those on 
contract or part time work, and those with pre-existing medical conditions;
details of the main  features of the cover as well as important  and relevant  restrictions 
will be made available and highlighted at the time the insurance  is taken  out with full 
details being sent afterwards;
all written material will be clear and not misleading;
full details of the cover  will be provided as soon as possible after completion  of the 
contract.
40. As Ive explained, Allianz  was a member of the ABI, so it was subject  to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements as set out above. So I am satisfied it is right that I 
should take these Codes into account  when deciding what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
The law
41. I have  also taken account of the law, including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract  (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the 
duty of utmost  good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
42. I have also considered carefully CABs representations about  the law, and complaints 
generally, as set out in its letter dated 22 January 2019.
The approach taken  by former schemes
43. Under the transitional provisions2 which  continue to apply  to  complaints like this 
about acts or omissions before 1 December 2001, I am also required to take into 
account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case  the Insurance 
Ombudsman Bureau (which Allianz  subscribed to)   might  have been expected  to 
reach in relation  to an equivalent  complaint.
44. In that respect, I note that, under the Insurance Ombudsmans terms or reference,  the 
Ombudsmans duties were, among other  things:
 (i) To have regard to and act in conformity with 
2 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme  and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001 (SI 2001/2326)
Ref: DRN96538449(a) the terms of any contract;
(b) any applicable  rule of law, judicial authority or statutory provision; and 
(c) the general principles of good insurance,  investment  or marketing  practice, the 
ABIs Statement and Codes of lnsurance Practice,  and the LAUTRO  and lMRO  
rules; but with (c) prevailing  over (b) in favour of the complainant.
(ii) To have regard to (without  being bound by) any previous decision of any 
Ombudsman.
(iii) To have regard to (without  being bound by) any guidance of a general nature given 
by Council.
(iv) ln the light of (i) (ii) and (iii), to assess what solution would be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
The FCA s rules for firms Handlin g PPI complaints  DISP App 3
45. I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and rules set out at DISP  App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints 
relating to the sale of payment prote ction contr acts like Mr Ss.
46. The sale took place  before insurance mediation  became a regulated  activit y in 
January 2005, so Allianz was required to take into account the evidential provisions in 
DISP App 3 as if they were guidance when consid ering Mr Ss complaint.
47. I note DISP App 3 includ es provisions for firms  about assessin g a complaint in order 
to establish whether the firms conduct of the sale fell short of the regulato ry and legal 
standards expected  at the time of sale  referre d to as breaches or failings. It did not 
impose new, retrospecti ve, expectations  about  selling  standards.
48. DISP App 3 also conta ins provisions for firms  about determining the way the 
complainant would  have acted if a breach or failing by the firm had not occurred. In 
relation to that it says:
DISP App 3.1.3 G
Where the firm determ ines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should 
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment 
protection contract in the absence of that breach or failing. This append ix 
establishe s presum ption s for the firm to apply about how the complainant 
would have acted if there had instead been  no breach or failing by the firm. 
The presu mptions are:
(1) for some breaches  or failings  (see DISP  App 3.6.2 E), the firm should 
presum e that the complainant would not have  bought the payment 
protection contract he bought; and
(2) for certain  of those  breaches or failings (see DISP  App 3.7.7 E), 
where the complainant bought a single premium payment protectio n 
contract, the firm may presume that the complaina nt would have bought a 
Ref: DRN965384410regular premium payment prote ction contra ct instead  of the payme nt 
protection contract he bought.
DISP 3.1.4  G
There may also be instances wher e a firm concludes  after investiga tion that, 
notwithstan ding breach es or failings by the firm, the complainant would 
nevertheless still have proceeded  to buy the payment protection  contract  he 
bought.
DISP App 3.6.1 E
Where the firm determ ines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should 
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment 
prote ction contract  in the absence of that breach or failing.
DISP App 3.6.2 E
In the absen ce of eviden ce to the contrary, the firm should presum e that the 
complainant would not have bought the payment protection contract he bought  if 
the sale was substantially  flawed, for example where the firm:
(4) did not disclo se to the complain ant, in good  time before  the sale was 
concluded, and in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading,  the 
significant exclusions  and limitations, i.e. those that would tend to affect the 
decisio ns of custom ers generally to buy the policy;
(8) did not disclo se to the complain ant, in good  time before  the sale was 
concluded and in a way that was fair, clear and not misleadin g, the total (not 
just monthly) cost of the policy  separately  from any other prices  (or the basis  for 
calculat ing it so that the complainant could  verify  it);
(10) provided misleading or inaccurate  information  about the policy to 
the complainan t;
DISP App 3.6.3 E
Relevant evidence might include the complainan t's demands, needs and 
intentions at the time of the sale and any other  relevant evidence, including any 
testim ony by the complainant about his reasons at the time of the sale for 
purchasing the paym ent protection contr act.
Overall
49. Taking the relevant considerations  into account, it seems  to me that the overarching  
questions I need to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable  in 
all the circumstances of this complaint are:
-If Allianz gave advice, whether it advised Mr S with reasonabl e care and skill  in 
particular, whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable  for him, given his 
needs and circumstances.
-Whether Allianz gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to 
enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention  and highligh ting  in a clear,  fair and not 
Ref: DRN965384411mislead ing way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions.
- If, having considered these question s, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr S, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered  
loss or damage and what I consider would  amount  to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
50. Mr S says Allianz ought fairly and reasonably to have gone further than I have 
suggested when  providing information. I shall address Mr Ss represent ations about 
this later on.
b) the sale - what actually happened?
51. Mr Ss recollection is that the policy  was sold to him when he applied  for the charge  
card over the internet. He hasnt  commented on whether  he thought it was an advised 
sale or not.
52. Allianz states that the policy was sold to Mr S in a store when he was given an 
application form to complete  and that he would not have received advice from the 
salesperson.
53. Allianz has provided a copy of the charge  card application form, which  includes the 
option to take payment protection. There is a tick in the PPI section to request  the 
policy and Mr S signed the form on 8 April 1997.
54. The form contains the name of the salesperson and the name of the branch in which 
the leaflet was given out. There is also a tick in the box next to the wording:  Apply  by 
post. Allianz has said that this could mean either that: a) Mr S could  have taken the 
form away and completed it before posting it back,  or: b) he could  have completed  it 
in store  and handed  it to the salesperson  who posted it back for processing. Allianz 
have a record of receiving the form on 9 April 1997 and the card account being  
opened on 12 April 1997.
55. Looking  at the form, there is a section  for office  use only,  which  is where the Apply  by 
Post box appears, next to a box for Accept.  There are also boxes that could be 
ticked to denote what type of identification an applicant had provided. It looks as if an 
application could  be accepted on the spot, presumably if someone had been able to 
provide suitable identification. Otherwise the application would need  to be sent off for 
processing.  The form doesnt appear  to be a typical postal form that an applicant  
could pick up and complete in their own time. For instance it doesnt  contain wording 
instructing an applicant to complete  and return it to a particular  address  or by using 
an attached envelope. On balance,  I think it is more likely that the sale was 
completed in store  and that it was the salesperson that sent the application  form off 
for processing.
56. On the card application form there was a section entitled Payment Protection. Below 
this it stated: Protect your Account Card  payments against accident, death,  
unemployment or sickness (For details  see condition 5 of the Terms  and Conditions 
section and Additional Information).  The premium  rate is 64p per £100 of the 
outstanding balance. The insured person  must be over 18 and under 65 and 
permanently employed for 16 hours + per week. If you are not eligible, you may 
nominate your spouse/partner.  We strongly  recommend  you take cover by ticking  the 
Ref: DRN965384412box. As well as the tick box, there  was also a box in which  to print the full name of the 
person to be insured. Mr S has printed his name in that section.
57. Allianz has also provided a copy of the Terms and Conditions and Additional 
Information referred to in the Payment Protection  section  of the application  form. 
58. Most  of the information in the terms and conditions refers  to the credit card. However,  
under Additional  Information it states:
Payment Protection  is only available to people aged over 18 and under 65 who have 
been in permanent employment  of at least 16 hours  per week  for at least  six months.  
Eligible partners or spouses can take out cover on behalf of those that do not qualify.  
Payment Protection  does not cover  pregnancy, cosmetic treatment, drug abuse, HIV 
related illnesses including AIDS, armed forces overseas, war or similar risks. No cover  
is provided against voluntary or regular  unemployment (such  as seasonal  work) or 
dismissal as a result  of wilful misconduct. No cover  is provided for any period where  
payment is received in lieu of notice. Cardholders  benefitting  from Payment  Protection  
insurance will be charged monthly with the current premium. If you wish to cancel you 
can do so by telephone or in writing.
59. Having considered the representations  of both sides  and keeping  in mind the 
limitations on the evidence available about what happened over 20 years ago, I find:
Mr S took out the charge card and policy whilst in a store,  with the form being  
sent off for processing and the account  being  opened a few days  later.
Its more likely than not that the credit agreement was part of a pack, given out 
at the point of sale, which contained more information about the policy   as the 
wording on the application form suggests was the case. 
It is more likely than not that Allianz  did send the policy  document  to Mr S after 
he took out the store card, even  though  Mr S does not remember receiving it - 
but that wouldnt have played  a part in his decision to apply for the policy,  so its 
of little consequence to the sale (other than to clarify  what  Mr S bought).
It is more likely than not that the policy terms and conditions were  those set out 
in the policy  document that Allianz  supplied, and as I have found, this was more 
likely than not to have been  sent out after the sale.
c) did things happen as they should in 1997?
60. As I have already found, I think it is more likely than not that the sale took place in 
store. Although  the form itself uses  the words: We strongly recommend you take 
cover by ticking the box, I am not persuaded Mr S would reasonably have taken  
this to be a personal recommendation for him, given that it was a leaflet  that he 
picked up in store, rather than something that was individually addressed to him. I 
am not persuaded the information Allianz  gave Mr S could reasonably  be 
considered to amount to advice. I have  not seen anything which persuades  me 
that Allianz recommended  he take out the policy, rather it alerted Mr S to the fact 
that he could take out the policy and gave Mr S information  about it.
Ref: DRN96538441361. The question I need to consider is whether Allianz provided Mr S with sufficient 
information in an appropriate and timely way to enable him to make  a properly 
informed decision about whether  to take out the policy.
62. For reasons  I shall explain, I do not think that it did. Exactly how, and the extent to 
which, Allianz  fell short of what was reasonably expected of it  and its relevance to 
Mr S, is in my view important to my consideration of the questio n which ultimately 
lies at the heart of this complaint: would Mr S have acted differently if Allianz had  
explained things  properly?
63. Having considered the evidence from the time of sale and the parties 
representations about what happened, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that 
Mr S agreed to the policy, knowing that he did not have  to take it out and that it was 
separate to the charge card.
64. The application form shows Mr S ticked the box for PPI and then printed his 
name underneath as the person to be insured.
65. I have  set out above the wording in the policy section  of the application  form. This 
does not say the insurance is compulsory, and, by having to tick separately to take 
out the policy, I am not persuaded Mr S would have  been  given the impression that 
he did not have  a choice about whether  to take it out or not.
66. I have  also considered whether  the salesperson gave Mr S sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to make an informed decision 
about whether  to take out the policy.
67. Mr S clearly has no recollection  of completing the leaflet in store  which is 
unsurprising given  the length  of time since the sale.
68. Because of the limited evidence, I cannot know what happened in the store when 
Mr S took out the card and policy.  Allianz  says only that information in respect  of 
the policy was provided on the application form, and has provided  the signed  
charge card and policy application  form, together with a page containing the 
Terms and Conditions and Additional Information. Given the sale was carried  out 
in a non-financial business, I consider it more likely  that any reference to the 
policy would have  been fleeting  nothing which might reasonably be described 
as a discussion or conversation about it.
Ref: DRN96538441469. The evidence from the time of the sale does not tell us whether Mr S was given any 
verbal information about the premiums  even in passing  or information about the 
actual monthly cost (the fact that the premiums  would be added to the account balance, 
attracting interest if unpaid at the end of the month, and were payable  during a claim) 
or about the exclusions and limitations, before he agreed to take out the policy. The 
limited evidence there is suggests  that Allianz relied on the policy summary set out in 
the Additional  Information to provide that information.
70. The application form did refer Mr S to condition 5 of the Terms and Conditions section 
and Additional Information where  he could learn more  about the important features of 
the policy. I have  found that Mr S would most likely have been given this document  as 
part of a pack. Most of the document  is taken up with the terms and conditions  relating 
to the charge card. I cannot know what opportunity Mr S may have  had to read the 
document at the time of the sale.
71. Whilst I am satisfied  Allianz sent the full policy conditions to Mr S after the event, 
which it was required to do, I do not consider that means Allianz gave  Mr S the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  
whether to take out the policy  before  he did so. I am mindful:
Mr S did not base his decision  to take out the policy  on the policy  document.
I have no evidence  to suggest that Mr S was forewarned that he would 
receive the policy document and should  not make  a final decision about 
taking out the policy  until he had considered it.
It was incumbent on Allianz  and indeed its agent - to provide him with the 
most important information  he required to make  his decision before he took 
out the policy (see the 1996  ABI Statement of Practice for PPI), with full 
conditions afterwards.
72. I think it is more likely  than not that Allianz  included some information about  the 
premiums, cover provided, and things  like the significant restrictions on disability 
cover, in the wider leaflet, because that was the kind of information it was required to 
draw to the customers attention by the ABI Code, which  it had undertaken to comply 
with.
73. But I am not persuaded  it did enough to present  that information in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr S. I am not persuaded that the reference on the 
application form to the Terms  and Conditions and Additional Information was 
enough, in itself, to draw the important information about the policy terms to Mr Ss 
attention, especially  in the context  of a sale in a store.  And although I cannot say 
what took place  in the store  at the point of sale, I consider it unlikely that Mr S was 
given much information about the policy verbally  as Ive said above,  I consider it 
likely that any mention of the policy was fleeting.
74. Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, I am 
not persuaded Allianz did enough  to present information about  the policy in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr S. I am not persuaded that Mr S was given all of 
the information he needed about  the policy at the point of sale to make an informed 
decision about whether to take it out.
Ref: DRN96538441575. I have considered how my findings  interact with the FCA's list of significant failings in 
its rules for firms  handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3.
76. It seems to me that it would  be reasonable to conclude that there  were  significant 
failings in this case. Allianz did not for example disclose  to Mr S before the sale was 
concluded and in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading some  of the significant 
limitations and exclusions  that would tend to affect the decision of customers 
generally to take out the policy [DISP  App 3.6.2  E (4)].
77. It is also arguable  that Allianz failed  to disclose the costs information envisaged at 
DISP App 3.6.2 E (8). Allianz did disclose how the premium was calculated on the 
application form  a very important  piece of information. But it could have  made 
clearer the fact that he would continue to be charged premiums  during the claim and 
the fact the premiums would  attract interest.
78. I have  considered carefully Mr Ss arguments  that Allianz should have done more  
than I have found it should  have  done  and provided additional information.  I have  
given particular thought to Mr Ss view that the common  law duty of utmost  good faith 
meant that:
Allianz should have explained  the low claims ratio (and what  he considers to be 
the inherent poor value) and the fact much  of the premium went  to Allianz as the 
insurer.
Allianz should have told him not just about the limitations and exclusions,  but also 
about the significance of them.
But having  done so, I am not persuaded by Mr Ss views in that regard.
79. Under the law which existed  at the time, both parties to an insurance contract owed a 
duty of utmost  good faith to the other.  By way of summary  only, both parties had 
duties to disclose  material facts and to refrain from making material  
misrepresentations to the other.
80. Usually, the focus of any dispute  tends to be on the extent of the obligations the duty 
of utmost good faith places on the person seeking  insurance  to disclose to the insurer  
the information it needs to determine and calculate the risk it will be taking if it agrees 
to provide the insurance.
81. But an insurer also has a duty to disclose:
..all facts known to him which  are material either  to the nature of the risk sought  to be 
covered or the recoverability of a claim under the policy which a prudent insured  
would take into account in deciding  whether  or not to place  the risk for which he 
seeks cover  with that insurer.3
82. MacGillivray on Insurance Law4 explains that the duty does not extend to giving the 
insured the benefit  of the insurers market experience, such  as for instance, that the 
same risk could be covered for a lower premium either by another  insurer or, 
3 Banque Keyser Ullmann SA v Skandia  (U.K.)  Insurance  Co. Ltd [1990] 1Q.B. 665, 772 
4 MacGillivray  on Insurance Law 14th edition 17-094 
Ref: DRN965384416presumably, by the same insurer under  a different  type of insurance contract; and the 
insurer is not required to perform the role of the insureds broker  in this regard.
83. I cannot be certain, but I think it is unlikely a court would  conclude  an insurer should 
have disclosed the claims ratio and value information, or contextualised the 
information about the limitations on disability cover in the way Mr S says Allianz 
should have done  by virtue  of the duty of utmost good faith. In any event, I do not 
think it would be fair or reasonable  in the circumstances of this case  to impose such 
requirements on Allianz.
84. Allianz was the insurer in this transaction - and as I have explained the sale was 
carried out by its agent. The agent  is an intermediary for the purposes of the ABI 
Code, and that Code also referred  to an overriding  duty on the intermediary  to act 
with utmost good faith and integrity.
85. The Guidance  Notes for Intermediaries and the Resum  for Intermediaries about the 
application of the ABI Code which I have referred to in this decision do not refer to 
that duty or elaborate on what it was intended  to mean.  But I think  it is unlikely  that it 
was intended  to place a greater  or substantially different obligation on the 
intermediary to that owed by the insurer.
86. I consider it more  likely than not that the reference to an overriding duty on the 
intermediary was a reminder  of the importance  of disclosing material information to 
both the insurer  and the insured (depending on whom  the intermediary  was acting 
for), reflecting the legal  duty those parties were under.  And it seems likely  the 
provisions of the ABI Code were in effect  intended to be practical examples of how 
the intermediary might meet the overarching principles  of utmost  good  faith and 
integrity as well as expected standards of good  practice.
87. I also note there was no expectation at the time under the provisions of the ABI Code 
that insurers or intermediaries  should proactively disclose commission.  For example,  
the guidance to the ABI Code published  in December 1994 said only that 
independent intermediaries should disclose commission on request.
88. Nor do I consider it can reasonably be inferred from the ABI Statement of Practice for 
Payment Protection Insurance  (which gave further  information about the expectations 
in PPI sales) that insurers or intermediaries were expected to disclose the kind of 
information Mr S says Allianz should  have done.
89. So it seems very unlikely that it was ever the intention of the ABI Code that 
intermediaries should provide the kind of additional information Mr S suggests it 
should.
90. In any event, I am not of the view that it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case to impose  a greater or substantially different  obligation on 
the intermediary to that owed  by the insurer.
91. Overall, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of good practice 
applicable to this complaint, I am not persuaded that Allianz ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  provided the additional  information Mr S says it should have 
done.
92. But for the reasons  and in the ways  I have set out, I find the information  Allianz  gave 
Mr S was insufficient  and presented  the policy in an unbalanced way. Ive no 
Ref: DRN965384417evidence to say that Mr Ss attention  was drawn   in a clear and fair manner  to the 
important information  that I consider it likely to have been set out in the wider leaflet 
that included the credit agreement. So the information Mr S based his decision on 
was  most  likely  ultimately misleading.  I am not persuaded that was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
e) what  effect did Halifaxs shortcomings have on Mr S?
to what extent did Mr S suffer loss or damage  as a result?
93. I have  found  Allianz did not do all it should  fairly  and reasonably have done when it 
sold this policy to Mr S, so I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude Mr S suffered  loss and damage as a result.
94. It seems to me that whether or not Mr S has suffered loss or damage in this case  
depends on whether, if Allianz had explained things properly,  Mr S would have 
acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy  in any event?
95. Mr S says he would not have taken  out the policy  and I should, in any event, 
presume  that he would not have taken it out given the substantial  failings in the 
sales process I have identified (unless  Allianz can produce  evidence  to show he 
would have taken  out the policy,  which Mr S says it cannot  because  its failings 
were so fundamental ).
96. Allianz  says  Mr S would still have taken out the policy  because:
-Any amount  paid under the policy was in addition to his employer benefits.
97. I have  carefully  considered the representations  of both sides  and the evidence 
relating to them.
98. Taking out insurance like this, based  only on information, requires  the consumer to 
weigh up a number  of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed.  PPI policies 
typically provide cover in a variety of situations,  some  of which  may be of greater 
interest or relevance  to the consumer than others.
99. Effectively the consumer has to weigh up in their own minds the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered in return and the potential consequences  they will suffer if 
they do not have insurance should  the risks come  to fruition. That is why it was 
incumbent on Allianz (through  its agent)  to provide the information about the policys  
features, so the consumer could make that assessment.
100. The evidence in this case suggests  that Mr S clearly had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. In saying that, I do not mean  he actively sought  
insurance or that it was his intention to take out insurance  before he applied  for the 
charge card  I have seen nothing to suggest he did.
101. Rather, I mean when  he was given information  in the store that there  was a product 
he could buy that would protect his charge  card payments  in the event that he was 
unable to work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment  and which would  pay 
off his entire balance  if he died, that resonated with him in some way and he 
concluded that he wanted that product.
Ref: DRN965384418102. The issue here is that the decision he made was based  on incomplete information,  
meaning what he thought he was getting is not exactly  what he got. And he would 
have had different things to weigh up when deciding to take out the policy if Allianz had 
provided the information in an appropriate way.
103. I consider that, in decid ing what is fair and reasonable in this case  and whether Mr S 
suffered loss or damage as a result, the evidence  about the extent to which the 
product differed from what Mr S might reasonably have expected from what  he was 
told, is relevant to the consideration  of what would have  happened.
104. In this case, the evidence about  Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that 
the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that could have proved useful to him should the insured 
risks have  come to fruition  even  allowing for the limitations  on the disability cover  it 
provided.
105. Mr Ss own evidence  or testimony  is that if he had lost his job through accident or 
sickness, he was entitled to at least six months  full pay. He would also receive  a 
payment on redundancy. He said he had no other ways of covering the card 
repayments beyond  that. I have also noted that the existence of those employment 
benefits did not put Mr S off asking for the policy in the first place.
106. I think it is reasonable to conclude that from Mr Ss perspective he saw some  benefit 
in having insurance  in his circumstances.  If the risk the policy was concerned about 
came to fruition, he may well have been keen to minimise his outgoings during what  
would likely be a difficult period, even though he may have been able to manage for a 
time with just his employment benefits. This policy  would  have helped  to do that by 
taking care of his charge card repayments  in the event  of a successful claim. It could 
also (depending  on the balance at the date of claim) have reduced his outstanding 
card balance  by a sizeable amount each month, as the table I set out earlier in this 
decision shows. It would do it at such a rate that the entire balance could be cleared if 
Mr Ss claim lasted  for nine months.
107. Whilst Mr S was interes ted in the policy, was eligible and had good reaso n for wanting 
the cover, the policy  did not work  entirely  as he might have thought.
108. In relation to the costs, Allianz  did tell him about an important part of the costs 
information  that the policy cost 64p per £100 of outstanding balance  each month.
109. But, as Mr S says, and I consider it more likely than not, that it was not highlighted to 
him that he would  continue  to be charged for the policy  in the event of a claim or that 
the premiums would be added to the account  balance (so would attract  interest). On 
the other hand, there was no suggestion the premiums would have been paid in 
some other way and Allianz said that they appeared on his statements, so its 
possible Mr S might  have expected this.
110. In addition, it may not have been made sufficiently clear  exactly  what Mr S would  get 
back in return if he made a successful claim. But the 15% benefit had the potential to 
clear the charge  card balance. And given the section of the application form Mr S 
signed described the policy  as protecting his account payments, I think  this is what he 
would have broadly anticipated.  If anything,  15% might have been better than he 
expected, for example if he only intended  to make  the minimum repayment of 5% of 
the outstanding balance  on the card each month.
Ref: DRN965384419111. I also consider it unlikely that the limitations  and exclusions were explained to Mr S. 
But I do not think that even if they had been explained to him adequately, it is unlikely 
to have dissuaded him from taking out the policy.
112. Mr S did not for example have  any pre-existing  medical  conditions  and the policy  did 
not exclude back or mental health  conditions, or place  any additional  restrictions or 
more onerous evidential requirements,  in the event of a claim on those grounds,  than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim. And I think  it is unlikely Mr S would 
have expected to make  a disability claim on the policy without having to provide some 
evidence to support  that claim.
113. Furthermore, part of Mr Ss complaint is that the policy would only pay out for disability 
if he was unable  to do both is own job or any other occupation for which he might  be 
suited. However the policy only required that someone was unable to do their normal  
paid work.
114. So, whilst Mr S did not know some things  about the policy, I am satisfied the ultimate  
positio n in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what he would 
reasona bly have thought from the information he based his decision to take out the 
policy on and found acceptable.
115. Mr S has provided information about what he would have done with more information, 
which I have considered carefully.  He says:
The PPI was unnecessary as I was entitled to full sick pay from my employer. I would 
have been entitled to at least  6 months  full sick pay from my employer. I would also 
have received death in service pay. The death  in service was at least  double  my 
annual salary. Furthermore I would have  received  a payment if I were made 
redundant.
When this was sold I understand  I may not even have been  'eligible' for it. At that 
time, I was past retirement age. Claims Advice  Bureau say if I was not eligible I 
obviously should not have been sold this. M&S  did not explain the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
In particular they did not tell me how much  the PPI really costs. They didn't explain 
the effects of compound interest being  charged  at credit card interest  rates which  I 
now understand means the balance would at least triple over a 10 year period or that 
premiums would continue  during a claim.  I was never given any indication of this true 
cost or how expensive it really would  be. The point being that PPI was usually 
presented as being cheap but I now understand that it was very expensive. I would 
not have bought the policy if I had understood this. The exclusions and limitations 
were also not explained  - the reasons it would not have  paid out.
 Claims Advice Bureau say M&S had a duty to explain these exclusions and 
limitations in a way that an ordinary person like me would have understood. I can 
definitely say that M&S did not do this. 
Claims Advice Bureau have further  explained  that a high proportion  of reasons 
anyone is likely to miss work were excluded  - in particular bad backs  and mental 
conditions such as stress, depression and anxiety. These statistically are among the 
most likely reasons for anyone being  off work  and I can say that these exclusions 
were not disclosed  to me. If M&S  had said that they were excluding the most 
Ref: DRN965384420common reasons people miss work I can say that would  not have wanted this PPI for 
that reason alone. This policy was meant  to protect me from sickness. It is now 
obvious that it was never going  to do what it was supposed to be for. It was supposed 
to protect  payments  if you couldn't work  but would not have done that in a majority of 
cases. Let me be clear  I would not have wanted  this policy had I been  told this. 
In addition to the above,  there are more reasons as well why I now understand this 
PPI should not have  been sold to me, and why if it had been explained properly, I 
would not have wanted it. In my job as an IT manager, I had sickness  cover - see 
above. I also had redundancy  and would have got at least redundancy pay if I had 
been made redundant. So the PPI was expensive and really  unlikely to pay out and 
on top of that I was covered anyway.  
On top of this I now understand  that on average, firms kept 86% of each premium  
payment as profit and expenses. The policy was appalling value for money. I am not 
in a position to waste money  or make  insurance  businesses richer at my expense. 
Everybody knows that companies are entitled  to make a fair profit,  but not an unfair 
one - I would  not have  wanted to be taken  advantage of I don't think anybody  would. 
As well as everything else, I was financially stretched. I have often had to run an 
overdraft.
Claims Advice Bureau say that for me, even more  than anybody else, it was wrong 
for me to spend money on this PPI which was both really expensive, and unlikely to 
pay out. I don't think this PPI should have  been sold to me and I would not have  
wanted it if it had been properly explained.
Claims Advice Bureau say that M&S were supposed  to treat me fairly  and not take 
advantage of me, but it cannot  be right to sell a product  like this without explaining 
the exclusions, and that they were  keeping so much money for something with so 
little value to me. I feel badly let down by M&S. PPI was just included  as part of my 
package with my credit  card. I had no interest  in PPI and would not have had it if 
M&S had not included  it with the package.
116. Mr Ss representative added further  comments  as follows:
The non-disclosure of exclusions and limitations  is a clear breach of professional  duty 
by M&S, and a substantial  flaw in the sale: see DISP Appendix 3.6.2 (4). The failure 
properly to disclose  cost is a further  separate breach of duty and substantial  flaw in 
the sale: see DISP  Appendix 3.6.2 (8). In accordance with DISP Appendix 3.6.2 there  
is a presumption the client would not have proceeded,  once  either of these breaches  
of duty has been established. That presumption can only be displaced  by specific 
evidence that this client would have proceeded regardless. No such evidence exists.  
To be clear: here are at least two substantial  flaws in the sale,  and each  of them  
gives rise to a presumption the client would not have  proceeded. There would have 
to be clear and specific evidence to displace both, and there is no such  evidence to 
displace either. Moreover, not only is there  no evidence to displace either  
presumption, but the client has actually given  evidence they would not have 
proceeded. Any suggestion  they would have proceeded is therefore not simply 
unlawful by virtue of ignoring  both presumptions, but would also involve ignoring, or 
disbelieving, without  any reason, the client's  own evidence. 
Ref: DRN965384421It is, furthermore, utterly  inadequate, unlawful and unreasonable  to suggest that 
either of the presumptions - let alone  the client's evidence  - can be displaced  by 
saying that this policy might have  been reasonable or useful or otherwise of decent 
value. That is not evidence this client would have proceeded, even if it were true. On 
top of this, it is also abject  nonsense.  This was a poor quality, poor value product. 
The exclusions were extremely onerous  and unfair.  Moreover, the average claims 
ratio for these policies  was 14% - so in the typical case  86% of the premium  went  to 
costs and profits rather than to provide the client with insurance.
To be clear: this is also a complaint about  unfairness under Section 140 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and under FCA Principle 6; and also a complaint about 
breach of the fundamental duty of utmost  good faith. This includes but is not limited  
to undisclosed  commission  as per "Plevin", which is just one aspect of the above. 
The PPI sale and credit  relationship are both unfair, and the duty of utmost good  faith 
was breached.
The appropriate redress is, as a minimum, return of all the PPI premiums plus 
interest. This is not merely  because  of undisclosed  commission but also because  of: - 
the unfair and onerous exclusions and limitations; - the failure  properly to disclose 
those exclusions and limitations; and - the high cost,  which was not properly 
disclosed. Most fundamentally of all, the contract  represented extremely  poor value,  
as demonstrated  by the claims ratio,  and this poor value  was not disclosed to the 
customer. This undisclosed  poor value makes  the relationship unfair according to 
section 140, where that is applicable. It also amounts to a breach of Principle 6. The 
failure to disclose the poor value always breached the duty of utmost good faith, 
which is applicable  in all cases. If the poor value had been disclosed the customer 
would not have proceeded. Any rational customer would  have  been  very unlikely to 
proceed, having been properly informed.
Furthermore, in this case, you have direct, personal  testimony from the customer that 
had the poor value  been disclosed they would  not have taken the PPI. Please note 
that any 'Tipping Point' in the level of commission is irrelevant to the matters of 
unfairness, poor value and breach of duty referred to here. We would also remind 
you that under Section 140, the burden of proof  rests  with the firm. If a firm suggests 
it behaved fairly, it has to prove that (Section  140B(9).).
117. Mr S is effectively saying that as a result of what his represen tative  CAB has told him, 
both about what it considers  should have happened and what he should have  decided  
at the time, he would not have taken out the policy .
118. In light of the findings I have already made, I do not think  Mr Ss represe ntations 
demonstrate what he claims because much of the information he says would have 
affected his decision would not have  been  known  to him at the time of the sale if 
everything had happened as it shou ld. For example:
There was no legal,  code, or good  practice  requirement on Allianz (or its 
agent) to disclose  the commission.
I am satisfied the requirement on Allianz in 1997  was to draw  his attention to 
the limitations, not to give the limitations  the context Mr S says Allianz should 
have given them.
Ref: DRN965384422As previously mentioned, Mr S was 31 years  old at the time and therefore  
not beyond retirement age.
The policy did not, as I have already explained,  restrict claims based  on back  
or mental  health conditions, unless they were pre-existing conditions.
119. I am also mindful  that: Mr Ss recolle ctions of the sale are, owing to the significant 
passage of time, likely to be limited; his represen tations abou t what he would have 
done are made in supp ort of a claim for compe nsation; and the paragraphs I have 
quoted resemble quite closely the consumer representations made in other cases 
where CAB represents the consu mer.
120. Having considered  all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr S would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable 
for him, was sufficiently  close to what he likely thought he was getting, and could still 
have provided  a useful benefit  at a difficult time, notwithstanding his employment 
benefits. It would have helped minimise his outgoings, and it is possible that in the 
absence of any savings Mr S might have  wanted to avoid using his sick pay or 
redundancy pay for the card repayments, so as to be able to manage his other 
everyday expenses.  It is likely he would have  thought about whether the cost to 
benefit proposition  still worked  for him, and I consider it more likely than not that he 
would have taken  out the policy in any event.
121. I have considered Mr Ss representa tions about  causation and DISP App 3, including 
the general opinion of Stephen Knafler  QC referred to by CAB on behalf of Mr S. 
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consider ation  I take into acco unt along  
with many other things  when  I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonab le.
122. I am mindful of the purpose of the guidance. I dont think  it was ever intended  to be at 
odds with the approach I have taken. The FSA explained its thinking in the policy 
statement5 at the time:
we have taken  as a starting point the typica l approach in law (which we 
understand also to be the FOSs general approach) that the custom er should be put 
in the posit ion they would  have been in if there had been no failure to comply with 
its obligations on the part of the firm. Typically that involve s considering  what the 
custom er would have  done but for the firms breach  or failing.  Firms have also 
been making  such but for judgements for many years, it being  the basic tenet of 
complaint handling. Complaints about PPI are not new or unusual  in this respect. 
We are satisfied that the but for test is a reasona ble one in the circum stances.
The presumptions represent a way of judging what a customer would generally 
have done, in our view.  Havin g given  due consideratio n to responses concern ing 
presum ption s we remain of the view that the presu mptions we have set out are 
reasonable ones  fully in the tradition of, and informed by, the kinds of judgements 
that courts and ombudsmen  have long and often  been making when assessing  
claims and complaints  and the poten tial need  to put the claimant, as far as 
5 Financial Services Authority Policy  Statement 10/12 The assessment and redress of 
Payment Protection  Insurance  complaints  Feedback on the further  consultation in CP 10/6 
and final Handbook  text  page 43 to 45
Ref: DRN965384423practicable , back  in the position they would have been in had the breach not 
occurred.
We also recognise that it would not be possible to establish in every case what a 
custom er would have  done in every individua l circum stance and that there has to 
be scope for a firm to depart from the presum ptions.  So, the presum ptions are 
rebuttable   that is, it is open to the firm to evidence that the custo mer would have 
bought the policy notwith standing the breach  or failing, in which case  no redress  will 
then be required.
123. It also said:
A recording  of the sale is not essent ial to rebut the presum ptions.  Where it is not 
available, firms must fairly assess the available evidence to make a decision about 
what they think  would have been likely to have happened, but for the failing, given 
the circu mstances and the evidence from the sale. For example, if the firm failed  to 
disclo se the existence of an exclu sion relating  to pre-existing medical conditions,  
then it may be reasonab le for the firm to rebut the presum ption that the custom er 
would not have  bought  the policy if it can be shown that the custom er did not have 
a pre-existing medical condition. It is unlikel y that a recording of the sale would 
elicit this inform ation. The PPIQ, if properly completed, will however provide this 
inform ation.
We have  carefully considered,  in light of respo nses, the proposed list of 
substantial  flaws in the proposed Handbook  text. We are satisfied that the 
rebuttable presum ption s cover substantial flaws and that our proposals  are 
appropriate because  in each case the nature of the failing raises serious doubts  
over whether the custom er would have proceeded with the purchase if there had 
not been such a failing.
It is true that the presumptions do not make allowance for the materiality  of the 
failings. We consider that the failings amount to substantia l flaws irrespe ctive 
of their materia lity to particular consumers, and that it is reasonable and simpler 
for our guidance not to differenti ate the failings in terms of materiality. In 
practi ce, firms are likely to be able to factor in considera tions of materiality 
when potentially rebutting the presum ptions in the case of a particular 
complaint. For exam ple if a firm failed to disclo se an exclusion, and if that 
exclusion  did not apply  to that customer at the time of the sale (som ething 
which can be eviden ced relatively straightfor wardly  with reference to the 
policy), it may be reasonable  for the firm to conclude (assum ing there are no 
other failing s) that the exclusion was not material to that customer and that he 
would have boug ht the policy anyway, notwithstandi ng the firms failure to 
disclo se the exclusion
124. I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs rules to this complaint might 
lead to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to 
conclude there were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, 
DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the payment 
protection insurance  he bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the 
complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption.
125. I am satisfi ed, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption is 
rebutted in the particular facts  and circumstances of this complaint. Based on the 
Ref: DRN965384424evidence pertaining  to Mr Ss circum stances I have consider ed above,  I consider  it 
reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S found  himself in as a result of the sale was 
the same position he would have  been in had the breach or signif icant failings not 
occurred. In other words  I am satisfied that Mr S would have bought  the policy in the 
absence of the breach or failings.
126. I am mindful of Mr Ss representations that the presumption may only be rebutted  
when the flaws in the sale process  were  immaterial, that the flaws in this case were 
highly material and I have failed to give proper weight to the evidence  including his 
own representations  that he would not have taken out the policy.  However, I am not 
persuaded by those  representations.
127. Even if I am ultimately departing  from the rules  for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
do not consid er I am), I am doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it 
would represent fair compensation  to put Mr S in the position  he would have been in if 
he had not bought the policy.
128. That is beca use, whilst I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied that of the two possibiliti es, it is more  likely than not that he would 
still have taken out the policy  if he had been given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy  he was buying.
129. I am satisfi ed it would not be fair and reasonable in those circumstances to conclud e 
Allianz should pay Mr S redress, as that would put him in a better positi on than he 
would have  been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
130. It follows from my findings that on the balance of probabiliti es it is more  likely than not 
Mr S would  have taken  out the policy if things had happ ened as they should. I am not 
persuaded he has suffered loss or damage as a consequence of the way this policy  
was sold.
131. Mr Ss representative has referred to the Plevin  judgment,  quoting a select  passage  
from it, and asked  me to consider  how the wider considerations about fairness are 
relevant to Mr Ss complaint. I have  already  explained why I dont consider the Plevin 
judgment to be applicable to Mr Ss complaint. In any event, Ive considered the 
submissions made  by CAB and they have not changed my view about  what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
132. I have thought about whether it would be appropriate to make an award of some kind 
because of the flaws  I have identifie d in the sale process even though  I have found 
Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. I have  not seen anything in the evidence 
relating to this case which leads me to conclude that Mr S suffered material  distress or 
inconvenien ce because of the way the policy was sold or any other form of non-
pecuniary financial loss. In those  circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair to 
make an award.
Ref: DRN965384425My final decision
133. Overall, having consider ed all the evidence and arguments  to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasona ble in all the circumstan ces of this complaint and for the 
reasons I have set out in detail above, my final decisio n is that I do not make an award 
or direction in favour of Mr S.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9653844