K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) is pursuing him for outstanding finance 
after he has returned  the car to the dealer.
background
In July 2016 Mr L acquired a second hand car from a dealer I will call M, with hire purchase 
finance provided by BMF.  In January 2017  he encountered financial difficulties and traded 
the car in with M. He says M told him he couldnt  surrender the finance  at that time and so 
he continued to make the payments and M transferred money  to cover these costs. 
M stopped making transfers in December  2018  and the salesroom has since closed. The car 
is registered to somebody  else. Mr L complained to BMF and said he had entered into an 
agreement with its representative and asked that it clear the debt and cover his costs. It 
refused and said it remained the owner of the car and he was prohibited from disposing of it 
without BMFs consent or full settlement of his account. It added that prior to his complaint it 
was unaware of his arrangement with M. It said he had broken the terms of the agreement in 
giving up possession of a vehicle which it owned.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our adjudicators  
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She referred to the terms and conditions of the HP 
agreement. This was an agreement to hire the car with the option to purchase  it when the full 
balance was paid.  Mr L was the hirer of the car and didnt ever own it. BMF remained the 
legal owner of the car. As such Mr L wasnt allowed to sell the car without  informing BMF 
and obtaining  consent or full settlement of the account.
She noted the agreement stated:
You must keep the goods safely  at your address shown on the preceding pages. You may 
not sell or dispose  of the goods  or transfer  your rights under this Agreement. You may only 
part with the goods to have them repaired. You may not use the goods as security  for your 
outstanding debts or responsibilities.
BMF was unaware of the arrangement Mr L had made with the M and had since  said that it 
wouldnt have agreed to it. It has now lost a car which it owned as a result of the actions of 
Mr L and M. She understood and sympathised  with Mr Ls situation, but she thought it would 
have been wise of Mr L to have contacted BLF earlier.
She explained that BMF was separate from M and under the terms of the agreement  Mr L 
has signed he was responsible for paying  the outstanding balance. Mr L didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr L and can see that he has ended up in an unfortunate 
situation, but I cannot say that BMF  has done anything wrong. It appears that M, which  I 
believe has sold the car has profited from the situation at Mr Ls expense.
Ref: DRN91735602Mr L never owned the car and was merely  hiring it with a view to becoming  the owner once 
he had settled the money loaned to him by BMF. Therefore he had no power to sell the car 
to M. He could only do so with the permission of the owner and BMF  has said it wouldnt 
have agreed.  I appreciate he presumed  that M was an agent of BMF, but it wasnt.  It is a 
separate company and the arrangement  it proposed  is highly unusual.
I have seen emails exchanged  between  Mr L and M and I note it proposed paying off the 
finance and it did so on a monthly  basis for almost  two years and then the money stopped.  
This had nothing to do with BMF and it cannot  be held responsible for Ms failure  to pay Mr 
L. As it has explained it was wholly  unaware of this unusual arrangement.
Mr L wasnt entitled to sell the car and his agreement with BMF remains  in place. In other 
words he still owes  the money he borrowed from BMF by means  of the HP agreement for 
the car. It has lost the car it owned due to no fault of its own and it is entitled to seek  
repayment of the agreed sum.  
I appreciate Mr L may find it difficult to repay  the outstanding sum, but I would suggest he 
talk to BMF about settling  the debt. At the same time I would expect  BMF to treat him both 
positively and sympathetically in reaching  an arrangement to pay, if necessary.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
18 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9173560