K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc removed  Mrs Ms name from their joint 
account for no apparent reason. This caused Mrs M problems in accessing her money and 
also caused Mr and Mrs M both stress  and inconvenience.
background
In April 2018 Santander removed Mrs Ms name from the joint account she had held with her 
husband for many years. Account statements subsequently arrived  only in Mr Ms name and 
Mrs M was unable  to use her debit card. In May Mrs M reported this to Santander who said it 
would investigate.
Mrs M heard no more, but she then lost her debit card and informed the bank on 10 August. 
Santander recorded the loss but refused to talk further with Mrs M and advised her to go to a 
branch, which  she did. Staff said her name had been removed from the account  and nothing 
could be done  about it. Mrs M has said that staff also mentioned a possible fraud enquiry. 
On 13 August Mrs M visited a different branch to try to sort out what had happened.  Once 
again staff couldnt explain why Mrs Ms name had been removed from the joint account, 
and said the matter would have to be escalated to head office.
On 18 August a branch manager  phoned  Mrs M to say that she should now be able to 
access the account as her details had been  added back to it.
Mrs M complained to Santander who said it could see that she had been removed because 
of information  it had received from another financial organisation. But as it couldnt now find 
that information it concluded that it must have removed Mrs Ms name in error. Santander 
apologised to Mrs M and offered her £175  compensation.
Mrs M considered this insufficient  given the stress and inconvenience  the bank had caused 
her and her husband, and the adverse impact the banks error had had on Mr Ms already 
poor health.
In summary,  our investigator considered that although Santander had made an error, its 
apology and offer of compensation was reasonable recompense for that error. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April Santander removed Mrs Ms name  from her joint account with Mr M, which meant  
that she could  no longer  access  the account with her debit card,  make  changes to it or 
discuss account details  with the bank.  Mrs M raised the matter with the bank in May, and 
Santander said it would investigate.
Nothing then happened until August when Mrs M reported that she had lost her debit card. 
And it was at this point  that Santander finally looked into the matter.
Ref: DRN98155032Santander has implied that it removed Mrs Ms name as a result of information from a third 
party, but as it can no longer find this it has concluded that the name removal must in fact 
have been an administrative  error.
I have looked  at Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements between April and August and the account 
seems to have been operated in the usual way without any apparent problems. There were  
payments both to and from the account, direct debits were  paid and there  is frequent  use of 
a debit card.  I assume this must have been Mr Ms card used either by him or by Mrs M. 
The statements  dont reveal that Mr and Mrs M experienced any financial difficulties during 
this period. And after reporting the name  removal in May Mrs M didnt contact the bank again  
until she rang about the card loss in August. I consider it reasonable to assume that if Mrs M 
had experienced any significant  problems during this period resulting from her lack of access  
to the account,   she would have  contacted  Santander before August. 
Mrs M says that both she and her husband were put to considerable trouble by the banks  
removal of her name from the account. I accept that this was the case, but from the evidence  
their difficulties appear to have begun on 10 August when Mrs M reported the loss of her 
card. She then had to make  a number of branch visits until she received  a phone call eight 
days later informing her that her name  had been added back  to the account.
I recognise that what has happened  here will have  caused Mr and Mrs M distress and 
inconvenience whilst they tried to resolve  the situation, albeit for a relatively short  period of 
time. But Im not persuaded that they were financially disadvantaged as the account 
continued to operate as normal even though Mrs M couldnt access  it with her debit card.
Santander has apologised for its error and offered Mr and Mrs M £175  compensation. I 
consider this fair and reasonable based on the circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Santander  UK Plc must  pay Mr M and Mrs M £175.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9815503