K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain that Pepper  (UK) Limited trading as Engage  Credit  sold their 
property for less than it was worth following a repossession, and is now pursuing  them  for an 
unfair shortfall on their mortgage.
background
Mr F and Mrs F had a joint mortgage. In around  2014, they separated and Mr F moved out of 
the property. The mortgage began to fall into arrears and eventually  the property was 
repossessed. It was sold at a shortfall of around  £30,000, and Mr F and Mrs F are now being 
pursued for the shortfall.
Mr F complained. He said that he didnt know about the arrears or repossession at the time  
until he was contacted about  the shortfall.  He said the property was sold for less than it was 
worth so the shortfall  should be reduced or removed. Mrs F has joined the complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Pepper had done anything  wrong,  so Mr F asked for an 
ombudsman to review  matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was originally taken out with another company, but then sold on to an 
unregulated lender called  Promontoria.  Unregulated lenders  have to appoint a regulated 
administrator to manage the mortgage,  and Promontoria appointed Pepper. 
Around the time of the transfer, the repossession  happened. A few months later, the 
property was sold at shortfall. Because Pepper  was administering the loan during the sale, 
and since, it is responsible for answering  this complaint.
When a property is repossessed,  I would expect the lender to get two valuations,  one from a 
surveyor and one from a local estate agent,  and to follow their advice when selling the 
property.
Ive seen the valuation reports, and Pepper  did that. One valuation  was £65,000 and the 
other was £60,000.  The property sold a few months later for £62,000. So Im satisfied that 
Pepper did what was required  in valuing the property, and the property sold for a price  in line 
with its independent valuation.
Mr F says the true value was higher. He points  to other sales  in the street. But the evidence  
of those sales isnt from the same  time as the sale of this property, so I dont think theyre 
directly comparable. And while his property was bigger than those,  both valuations  report  
that it was in poor internal  condition,  and the surveyor also reports problems with the roof 
and walls which needed investigation. Those  factors explain why this property sold for less 
than the ones Mr F has pointed to. And, in the end, property valuation isnt an exact science 
and a propertys  only worth what someone  is willing  to pay for it. I think the evidence shows 
that Pepper achieved a price in line with the propertys value.
Ref: DRN97932212That means that I dont  think  the shortfall is higher than it ought to have been.  The property 
genuinely was worth less than the mortgage balance. Mr F and Mrs F are liable for the 
shortfall. I understand  from Mr F that both have low incomes and Mrs F has health  problems.  
It may be that they can afford to pay very little to contribute to reducing the shortfall. But 
thats a conversation theyll  need  to have with Pepper  which  does have ongoing 
obligations to treat them fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9793221