K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that an appointed representative of Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited mis-sold them a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P took advice from L&G, following which they re-mortgaged. Theyd previously 
had a part interest only part repayment mortgage  they increased the repayment element  to 
cover a project endowment shortfall.  
As part of the re-mortgage, Mr and Mrs P consolidated their unsecured debt, including 
several loans and credit cards. They paid an early  repayment charge (ERC) to their existing  
lender. They  also borrowed an additional  £4,000 to buy a vehicle. They borrowed some 
further money to finance a will writing package.
L&G accepted they shouldnt have  been  advised to borrow money  to pay for the will, so it 
offered to refund the interest. Its also now offered to refund commission the broker received 
for referring  them to a solicitor, and offered £250  compensation. 
Our investigator thought the mortgage was, by and large, suitable.  But he didnt think  
Mr and Mrs P should have been  advised to consolidate their credit  cards  as they had small  
balances which would  have been cleared quickly anyway.  But he thought  consolidating the 
loans was suitable as Mr and Mrs P needed to reduce  their outgoings  and needed to do so 
quickly, so the ERC wasnt  unreasonable. The investigator didnt think  they should have 
been advised to borrow £4,000 on their mortgage to buy a vehicle. He recommended the 
compensation be increased  by £100.  And he didnt think the broker needed to refund any of 
the fees Mr and Mrs P were charged, since they were clearly  explained  to them.
The claims management company representing Mr and Mrs P accepted the investigators 
outcome. L&G agreed that the credit  cards shouldnt have been  consolidated, and offered to 
refund the additional costs of that. But it didnt think the £4,000  additional borrowing was 
unsuitable, or that further compensation was fair. So it asked  for an ombudsman  to make a 
decision.
I took a different view of the case, so I issued a provisional decision. I said:
I note that the parties are now agreed on everything except the suitability of raising  
£4,000 additional borrowing, and whether an additional £100 compensation is 
warranted. So those  are the matters  on which Ill focus in this decision.
The CMC makes the point  that a mortgage  shouldnt be used to finance other things, 
like vehicle  purchases. But theres no hard and fast rule about that, and Im 
considering whats  fair in the particular circumstances of this case.
It wouldnt be fair simply to direct L&G to refund the interest this borrowing has 
incurred. Thats because  if Mr and Mrs P hadnt  borrowed on the mortgage to buy the 
vehicle, they would  have borrowed in some  other  form  and would have had to pay 
interest on that instead. In order for me to uphold  a complaint about this, and direct  
L&G to pay redress, I need to be satisfied there was a financial loss.
Ref: DRN97884232Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was over a ten year term, taken  out in early 2005. They 
fixed their interest rate for five years at 4.99%, after which  it would revert  to the 
lenders standard  variable  rate  which, by 2010, was also around 5%. So overall, 
roughly speaking, by borrowing in this way Mr and Mrs P borrowed £4,000 at 5% 
over ten years.
I dont know what alternative finance  was available  to Mr and Mrs P in 2005,  if any. 
But the loans  they consolidated were also vehicle loans  at interest rates in excess  
of 10%.  Thats not untypical of vehicle loans at the time. So it may be that 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  pay more interest on the mortgage than they would have done 
had they borrowed  separately.
Its not now possible to put Mr and Mrs P back in the position  they would have been 
in had they not borrowed in this way, since I cant be sure what loan they would have 
taken instead.  However,  on balance, I think that any financial  loss, in terms of interest  
over the term, is likely to be marginal.
And I bear in mind the wider reasons  behind  re-mortgaging  and doing  so without 
waiting for the ERC to expire  was the need for Mr and Mrs P to reduce their 
outgoings. If they had borrowed this money  through shorter term finance  outside the 
mortgage, it would have been  more  expensive each month  which takes  away the 
benefits gained  from the re-mortgage.  Both parties accepted  and I agree with  the 
investigators view of the importance of that.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, Im not persuaded that raising an 
additional £4,000 in this way was unsuitable  in Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
circumstances. And even if it was, Im not persuaded that it caused them significant 
financial loss, or loss that can easily  be quantified accurately. I dont therefore uphold  
this part of the complaint.
That leaves the additional compensation the investigator recommended, because of 
the unnecessary  consolidation  of the credit  cards.  But I dont think additional 
compensation is fair or necessary here. While  I accept doing so was unsuitable, and 
caused Mr and Mrs P some financial loss, theres no evidence that it caused them  
any upset at the time  or even that they were aware anything had gone wrong until 
advised by the CMC.
L&G asked me to clarify one point about my proposed award,  which I did. It didnt have any 
further arguments to make. The CMC didnt  respond  by the deadline  I gave.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision. But as neither  party has brought forward  any further evidence or 
arguments, I see no reason to depart  from it.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I uphold  this 
complaint and direct Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  to:
Ref: DRN97884233Refund the commission and interest on the wills, plus £250 compensation as it has 
offered;
Refund the cost of the consolidation of the credit cards,  by:
oCalculating what it would have  cost to repay them unconsolidated;
oCalculating what it cost to repay  them on the mortgage;
oPaying to Mr and Mrs P the difference, adding simple annual interest of 8%* 
running from the date the mortgage ended in 2015 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 May 2020..
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If L&G considers it should  deduct  income tax from the 8% interest element of my award  it may do 
so, but should give Mr and Mrs P the necessary  documentation, if they ask for it, so that they can 
reclaim any tax from HMRC  they may be entitled to.
Ref: DRN9788423