K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Sirius  International Insurance Corporation (Sirius) has rejected his claim 
for the theft of two mobile phones whilst he was on a trip abroad.
background
Mr P has said that when he was on a trip abroad  he was mugged twice, and on both 
occasions he had a mobile phone  stolen. He had single trip travel  insurance with Sirius at 
basic level which hed purchased on-line.  This covered him for the risks listed in Schedule  
A to his policy. These risks didnt include cover  for loss or theft.  Further  cover  was available 
for additional risks, including loss or theft,  but this cover was optional,  and Mr P hadnt  
selected it. He made a claim  under  his policy for the theft of his phones.
Sirius declined Mr Ps claim. It says that his policy doesnt cover him for theft as he hadnt 
purchased the optional  cover provided  by Schedule  B of the policy, which includes cover for 
Baggage Loss/Theft/Damage.  The only cover  he had was the cover provided under 
Schedule A.
Mr P has referred to section A10 of his policy that does form part of his cover. This refers to 
claims for mugging in the following terms:
Section A10- Hijack/Car-Jacking/Mugging Benefit
What is Covered
We will pay You up to the sum insured shown in the Schedule  of Benefits applicable to 
Your chosen Level  of Cover shown on Your Certificate of Insurance for each complete 
24 hour period  You are unlawfully detained, or admitted  as an In-Patient  in a Hospital, 
outside Your Home Country, as a direct consequence of You being  a victim of a hijack 
or car-jacking of the vehicle in which You are travelling, or as a result of a mugging, 
occurring during the Trip, up to a maximum of the sum insured shown in the Schedule of 
Benefits.
Sirius maintains that this section covers a period of detention, or admission as an In-Patient 
in hospital, as a result of a mugging.  It says it doesnt cover  any theft that occurs as part of 
the mugging. And as Mr P wasnt unlawfully detained nor admitted into hospital as a result of 
these incidents,  no benefit is payable under this section.
Mr P says that the term mugging isnt defined in the policy,  but if mugging doesnt  include 
theft, the section  really  only covers assault. He says that theft cover is a basic component  of 
any travel  insurance, and that the terms of his policy are misleading and fraudulent.
Mr P didnt accept Siriuss  grounds for rejection of his claim, and referred his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator was of the view that Sirius hadnt acted unreasonably in 
rejecting Mr Ps claim  for the reasons it had given. Mr P doesnt  agree with our investigators  
view and has asked that his complaint be considered again by an ombudsman. So Mr Ps 
complaint has now been  referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ref: DRN98298222Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Mr P purchased his policy online.  I therefore think it was his responsibility to ensure that the 
cover he purchased included the cover he wanted.  He chose the basic level of cover which 
gave him cover for the risks specified  in Schedule A 1-17 of his policy.  These  dont include 
cover for loss or theft. He chose not to have the optional cover  available  under Schedule B 
(Baggage Loss/Theft/Damage).
Mr P argues  that he should  be covered under Section A10 of his policy  (quoted above) on 
the basis that mugging  without theft is just an assault, and that for mugging to mean what  
it is generally accepted  to mean, mugging  in section A10 must include theft.
I cant agree  with Mr P on this for two reasons.  Firstly, I think the wording is clear in section 
A10 that it only covers  a situation where  he was unlawfully  detained, or admitted as an In-
Patient in a Hospitalas a result of a mugging.  It doesnt include theft. The policy also 
states a daily payment  amount up to a maximum amount under this section of cover.  This 
doesnt sit comfortably  with the theft of an item or items. Theres no reference  to what cover 
that section would provide in the event of theft,  for example the value of any goods  stolen  
up to a maximum of [x].
Secondly, under the heading Important features , the policy states:
9. Property Claims
No cover is provided for property claims unless You have selected  Schedule B. 
Optional Enhanced Travel Benefits, paid the appropriate premium and the option is 
displayed on Your Certificate of insurance.  Where You have cover under this Option, 
these claims are based on the value of the goods at the time You lose them and not on 
a new for old or replacement cost basis. Claims are based  on the Sub-Limits in the 
applicable section  of cover and deductions will be made in respect of wear,  tear and 
depreciation (this means You will not get back all of the money  You paid for the item). In 
the event of a claim You will be required to provide  proof of ownership of the item.
So I think that puts it beyond doubt that the policy doesnt provide  cover for the loss or theft 
of any property unless  the additional optional cover under Schedule B has been  taken  out, 
and that theft by mugging isnt an exception  to this. In the event of a loss of property, 
including by way of mugging, I think  this would be the schedule under which any claim 
should be made, and Mr P hadnt  selected  this cover. I think  the extent of the cover he 
purchased was clear  in the documentation he received  from Sirius.
I should point  out that even if Mr P had opted  to take out cover  under Schedule  B, the policy 
would only have provided him with limited cover, as the maximum claim for Valuables under 
the basic level of cover is £150,  with an excess of £60.
My conclusion is therefore that I dont think that Mr Ps policy is fraudulent  or misleading  or 
that Sirius  has acted  unfairly or unreasonably  in rejecting Mr Ps claim in these 
circumstances.
my final decision
Ref: DRN98298223For the reasons  Ive give above, Im not going to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Im not going 
to require Sirius International Insurance Corporation to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829822