K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) migrated her Current  Account 
Plus packaged bank account  to a Tech Pack  branded account  without  her consent in May 
2016.
background
Miss F says that she moved overseas in 2015  and was never made  aware of the change  
that was taking place with her account. She would like the Tech Pack  fees refunded. 
Barclays explained that it had written to her to inform her of this at the UK address they held 
for her  it said she had never changed  the address on her account when she moved.  
Consequently it did not believe it had made a mistake and did not uphold her complaint.
Miss F came to this service for help, and the adjudicator looked  at all the available  evidence.  
He concluded  that there  wasnt any information to show that Miss F had updated her 
address with Barclays, so didnt uphold her complaint. Miss F didnt accept  that and has 
asked an ombudsman to look at her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Businesses are entitled to make changes to the range of products  they offer: that is a 
commercial decision.  But they must let customers affected by that change  know  in advance.  
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it sent to Miss F in March and May 2016  letting  
her know  about the fact that it would be changing the branding  of her paid for account to be 
a Tech Pack. It also let her know how she could  get in touch if she wasnt happy with that 
change and wanted to simply have a free account.
Miss F says she never received the letters because she had left the country. So the question  
in this case is whether  Barclays did something  wrong in failing to process an address 
change request for Miss Fs account.  I can rarely be 100% certain  about  what  has happened 
when the two parties disagree. But its my job to use the evidence  to decide what  I think  is 
more likely than not to be the case,  on the balance of probabilities.
Miss F says she:
advised in branch [she] would  be leaving before  [she] left.
At no point  in her testimony has she stated, even in the simplest terms, that she actually 
instructed Barclays to change the address on her account.
Ive reviewed the customer contact notes  that Barclays  holds for Miss F, and they also have 
no record of any address change instruction being given  or received. For me to think  it is 
most likely Miss F did go through that administration in branch, and it failed to register in any 
way on Barclays systems, Id need to hear a lot of detailed testimony  from her.
Ref: DRN97675872Given the major life change that was happening  for her at the time, when possibly she 
wasnt clear what her permanent address overseas  would be, I can entirely understand how 
Miss F may have  neglected to give the necessary information and instructions to Barclays. 
But I cant hold Barclays responsible for that. The evidence does not point  to a failure on 
Barclays part, and I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the rules Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Barclays doesnt  need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9767587