K820x#14Complaint
Miss As unhappy with how Pinnacle Insurance Plc dealt with a claim she made  on a pet 
insurance policy.
Background 
Miss A took out an annually renewable policy with Pinnacle to cover her pet. In November 
2018, Miss A submitted  a claim  to Pinnacle  as her pet needed  tests  and treatment for 
pancreatitis. 
Pinnacle eventually  said the new claim was linked  to a claim Miss A already made in earlier  
in the policy  year for diabetes. Pinnacle said the policy terms meant  the maximum it would 
pay out for all related  claims  for the policy year was £1,000.  This left Miss A to cover  the 
difference. 
Miss A complained that, prior to making  her claim for pancreatitis, she called Pinnacle to pre-
authorise the treatment.  She said Pinnacle  led her to believe  the conditions  wouldnt be 
treated as related and that the claim would  be covered in full, which was why she went 
ahead as she did. She wanted Pinnacle to pay the claim  for pancreatitis  totalling  around 
£725  in full.
 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt recommend  that it be upheld. She felt 
Pinnacle was entitled  to treat the diabetes and pancreatitis as related and to limit the claims 
as it had. She also believed that Pinnacle hadnt mis-led Miss A over the phone.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators  findings,  so the case  was passed to me to review 
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I see no need to discuss in detail the arguments  for and against  treating Miss As pets  
diabetes and pancreatitis as related conditions. I note Miss As already confirmed, in her 
email of September 2019, that isnt the key issue in dispute. And, from the clinical  evidence 
and Pinnacles  in-house  experts opinion, my views that the diabetes and pancreatitis were  
probably related.  
So, on balance, Im satisfied that Pinnacles decision on this point was fair and that the total 
claims limit for the conditions was £1,000 for the year. 
Ive listened very carefully to the call between  Miss A and Pinnacles adviser prior to 
treatment for pancreatitis. In it, Miss A gave  an estimate of £400  for expected  costs  (at that 
stage). The adviser said there was no form necessary to get the claim pre-authorised since  
the policy had been underwritten and had no exclusions on there. 
The adviser went on to explain  that Miss A should  encourage  the vet to include as much 
information as possible on the claim form since pancreatitis can sometimes be related to 
Ref: DRN92703382diabetes  which Miss A had previously claimed for. Miss A asked what the consequences 
might be if there was a link between the two conditions and there was a discussion regarding 
how much  of the £1,000 yearly claim limit was remaining. According to Miss A, not much  of it 
remained. The adviser confirmed that, if the conditions were  found to be unrelated,  a fresh  
limit of £1,000 would apply to the claim for pancreatitis.    
Im satisfied that Pinnacles  advice was clear and accurate and that Miss A gave the adviser 
the impression  she understood. Although the adviser said no pre-authorisation was needed,  
they made it clear that this didnt mean the claim would be paid or that it would be 
considered unrelated to the claim for diabetes.
Miss A says that a few months after the claim she spoke to Pinnacle again and it supported 
her belief that, had the standard pre-authorisation process been followed, shed have known 
the claim wouldnt be covered and that she wouldnt have incurred the costs she did.
From what  Miss As said about the second call, I remain of the view that Pinnacle hasnt 
treated her unfairly. I say that because my understandings that pre-authorisation would help 
determine whether  Pinnacle was willing to accept the validity  of the claim. It wouldnt have 
added anything with regard to whether treatment for the two conditions should be considered  
as related. The validity of the claim itself hasnt been questioned by Pinnacle. So, Ive no 
reason to believe Pinnacles  actions regarding pre-authorisation made a difference to Miss A 
in this instance.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont consider that Pinnacle need do anything  more.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9270338