K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains Bank of Scotland plc closed his account in error and that its actions have not 
only left him without a functioning account  but also caused him considerable distress.
background 
Mr R had an account with Bank of Scotland which he managed well and out of which  several 
direct debits and standing orders went.
Mr R contacted Bank of Scotland in 2017  asking it to stop a recurring  payment  from going 
out again. Bank of Scotland accepts that the payment went  out again on 30 December 2018  
and that Mr Rs account went overdrawn as a result. Instead  of claiming the payment  back, 
Bank of Scotland insisted on Mr R repaying the overdraft and then closed his account.
Mr R complained to Bank of Scotland and then to us about his account having  been closed. 
Bank of Scotland accepted that it had made  a mistake  after we started investigating Mr Rs 
complaint  but said it couldnt re-open  his old account. Bank of Scotland said hed have to 
open a new account but said that as this would involve Mr R going to a branch or going 
online that wouldnt be an option whilst  he was in prison. Mr R was very unhappy about Bank 
of Scotlands response as it meant, in effect, that hes ended  up without a functioning 
account because  of an error on its part. He was also unhappy about the way Bank of 
Scotland had treated him throughout  from ignoring his original  request to stop the recurring 
payment to more recently having third parties write to him chasing repayment of the 
overdraft  a debt that Bank of Scotland  accepts he doesnt owe.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Rs complaint and agreed that Bank of Scotland  
hadnt dealt with him fairly. Our investigator  explored  several  options  with both parties   from 
Bank of Scotland opening a new account  for Mr R (even if that meant  going  outside its 
normal process) to compensating Mr R for the impact its actions have had. In the end our 
investigator recommended that Bank  of Scotland write off the overdraft debt, pay Mr R the 
credit balance that had been in his account  before the disputed  payment went  out, remove  
all of the adverse  credit  information it had registered against Mr R from 30 December 2018  
to date and pay Mr R compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hed experienced. 
This meant Bank of Scotland paying  Mr R £415.18 - £400 in compensation  and the rest the 
credit balance on his account before the disputed payment went out. Bank of Scotland  
agreed to our investigators recommendations and made several  observations in relation  to 
the mechanics  of paying compensation to Mr R given that hes in prison. Mr R was still 
unhappy with what had happened and thought he should get £500 for each of Bank  of 
Scotlands failings   he said there were four. So, I was asked to consider this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R is on the autistic  spectrum and has explained in detail what he believes Bank of 
Scotland has done wrong. His submissions have  been very helpful  they show  Bank of 
Scotland has let him down repeatedly. Bank of Scotland accepts  this. So, Im focussing on 
what needs to be done to put things right. The first question is should I require Bank of 
Scotland to re-open Mr Rs old account,  open a new one for him or pay him compensation?
Ref: DRN99850042Having thought carefully about the circumstances of this complaint  including  the fact that 
Mr R is in prison on an indeterminate sentence, the rules about prisoners having  access to 
money and the role these rules play in prison  life as a whole  I think  the fairest way to put 
things right in this case is for Bank  of Scotland to pay Mr R compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and the balance that was in his account before  the disputed  payment went  
out rather than re-opening his old account or opening a new account. I should add that I 
would have been more likely to require Bank of Scotland to open an account  for Mr R if he 
was about to be released given how important access  to an account  is to rehabilitation. Mr R 
has, however,  told us that hes likely to be in prison for some  time. Hell get help opening  an 
account shortly before  hes released.  Mr R has told us that hed like an account so he has 
access to a cheque  book and debit card, but he wouldnt be allowed to keep these whilst 
hes in prison. So, requiring  Bank  of Scotland  to open an account now also achieves little.
Mr R wants £500 in compensation for each of Bank  of Scotlands failings  so £2,000 in 
total. Our awards are, however, based  on the impact  of a business errors rather  than the 
errors themselves or the number of errors. So I havent awarded  Mr R compensation in the 
way hed like me to. Instead, Ive considered the amount of distresse and inconvenience 
Bank of Scotland has caused  him. Having done  so, Ive decided  to award Mr R £400  in 
compensation  the amount our investigator  recommended  as I feel thats  a fair amount. 
The final question is how should  this be paid given that Mr R is in prison?
In this case Im going to require Bank  of Scotland to pay Mr R by sending a cheque to his 
prison with a short covering letter explaining why its paying Mr R compensation. The prison 
will pay the cheque into Mr Rs prisoner account  the covering letter will ensure the money 
is treated appropriately.  A prison would, after all, normally have concerns if a prisoner 
received a cheque  for over £400.  I should add that I spoke to Mr Rs prison  without naming 
names  to get an insight into what would work best.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Bank of Scotland plc to remove all the adverse credit 
information it has registered against  Mr R from 30 December 2018  to date, to write off the 
overdraft debt on his account and to pay him £415.18 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2021.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9985004