K821x#15complaint
Mr R feels hes been treated unfairly  by PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA,  in the investigation
it carried out into a buyer  dispute raised against him, and the decision it then made to refund
the buyer.
background
Mr R sold four items (three mobile telephones  and a smart watch) on an auction website,
totalling £2396.80. The items were shipped from Hong Kong to the buyer in France  by
tracked courier.
The purchase price was credited from the buyers PayPal account to Mr Rs, but the buyer
then raised a dispute with PayPal. He stated  hed received a box of small metal tools, which
wasnt as described  or what hed purchased,  and which was recorded by PayPal as fitting its
dispute criteria for the buyer having  effectively  received an empty box.
So PayPal refunded the buyer in full, removing the money from Mr Rs account.
Mr R complained to PayPal, saying he was unhappy this was done without any proper
investigation or evidence, and hed like the transaction  reversed.
PayPal didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint, so he came  to this service. One of our investigators
looked into the case, and asked some further questions.
PayPal responded  saying  it had received a crime report  from the buyers local police
authority. And that, due to this, Mr R wasnt eligible  for reimbursement  under its Seller
Protection Policy, as this policy didnt apply to claims, chargebacks and/or reversals  where
the reason was that the purchase was Significantly  Not as Described'.
PayPal further  stated that all correct procedures were  followed  in this case, and that it acted
in accordance with the User  Agreement  and policy.
Upon further enquiries by our investigator, PayPal said that if Mr R thinks that the buyer's
statement is false, he should take this matter to the police and it will then cooperate  with any
ongoing investigation or contact initiated them in accordance  with its legal responsibilities.  It
also said that Mr R also has the option  to report this matter to the shipping  company, and
they can investigate  the delivery of the parcel.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint, saying PayPal had followed its process
correctly. But Mr R was unhappy  with that conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
Two provisional decisions were then issued. The first, dated 6 December  2018,  upheld the
complaint and said Mr R should  receive a refund. The second, dated  20 March 2019,  which  
was issued following  receipt of further information  from the parties, reversed the uphold
decision, and said Mr R shouldnt get a refund.
Mr R was very disappointed and unhappy with the second provisional decision, and gave us
his further detailed comments.  
I then issued a third provisional  decision  (see below) on 9 July 2019, in which  I said I 
believed Mr R should receive a refund from PayPal as he hadnt  been  treated fairly.
Ref: DRN97005662I asked for comments from both parties to my decision. Mr R accepted it, but PayPal  made 
some further  representations. I considered  these  carefully, but as nothing  new was 
introduced from what PayPals said before, Ive not been persuaded to change  my decision 
to uphold this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought very carefully about  everything submitted so far from both sides;  the results
of our own investigations; and the two decisions already issued, I intend to uphold this
complaint and ask PayPal  to issue Mr R with a refund, and also pay him some compensation
for his poor experience.
As correctly stated by the previous ombudsman, its not our role to consider the correctness,
or otherwise, of PayPals policies or dispute investigation processes. But what I can do is
look at the outcome of such policies and processes, and decide  whether I feel they led to a
fair result for the consumer. And I dont think in Mr Rs case there was.
I accept this is a difficult case, where  evidence either wasnt available,  or wasnt conclusive.
And I agree that its not necessarily straightforward  to decide which  of the parties  is
presenting the true version  of events. But Im satisfied here that I can make a judgement  call
and say that I prefer, on balance, Mr Rs evidence  that he did send the correct items  to his
purchaser. And Im not persuaded by what PayPals said that it could safely  accept the
purchasers version of events if it wanted  to reach  a fair and balanced conclusion.
PayPal seems to have accepted, largely on the purchasers word, that the items received
were not the phones  and watch purchased, but small metal tools. However, beyond this
description theres no further evidence that this was the case. On the basis  of this
submission, PayPal said that this fitted  its Significantly Not as Described criteria, and
therefore Mr R wasnt eligible for Seller Protection.
To me that doesnt  seem  a fair conclusion to reach. All we really  know  for sure, on the
evidence, is that a 2kg weight package was sent by Mr R, and that the same weight of
package was safely received by the purchaser. But all that really  tells us is that the items
sent, and received, were the same  weight. Not what the items were, whether the items were
the same  or not, or even whether they were  small metal  tools.  Which, if they were,  would
have to conveniently weigh the same as three phones and a smart watch  (per the weight
information as evidenced by Mr R). And, crucially, it doesnt show us that the items received
were Significantly  Not as Described.
So I dont  think the conclusion reached  by PayPal, that the buyer was telling the truth in
saying he received only small metal tools, was a fair or safe one. And therefore  I think  it was
wrong to categorise  the parcel contents as Significantly Not as Described.
Nor do I feel PayPal was fair to place such reliance on the fact that the buyer was able to
provide a police  report. All that really shows is that an alleged  crime has been reported  - not
that ones been committed,  or proven.
I also find the submission from Mr R persuasive,  that it seems  odd that his purchaser  didnt
Ref: DRN97005663contact him on receipt of the goods,  in a state of shock and outrage to query  what  had
happened, rather than proceeding immediately down the official  dispute route. I agree with
Mr R that this formal route is not easy or straightforward for a new account owner  to
navigate, on their first purchase.  And, even where the account holder may have had
previous PayPal dispute experience, Id still expect him to contact a seller first in a situation
such as this. Even if just to vent some  frustration, or seek  an explanation. So I agree  theres
merit in the argument that this seems like an odd thing for the purchaser to have done.
Ultimately, I dont agree that PayPal had enough  in the buyers  statement, and the police
report, to make the decision to decide the dispute in the buyers favour.  To be clear, Im not
making a finding  on PayPals  processes here, albeit I do observe its investigation appears to
have been cursory  especially for such a high value transaction.
Whether or not PayPals processes are good enough, which  is not for me to say, I dont
believe in this particular  case they led to a fair outcome.  And its my role to decide what I
think a fair outcome would  have been. I believe it would have been to have accepted,  on all
of the evidence, that it was more likely than not that Mr R did send the correct  items; that he
should have been eligible for PayPal Seller Protection; and that the money  shouldnt  have
been taken out of his account.
Further, I dont accept  that PayPals offer to assist  with any police investigation Mr R seeks,
or its suggestion that he takes the matter up with the shipping company, are very useful.
Realistically, a further police report is going  to be simply  that  a report of an alleged  crime 
and its not clear what further evidence might be available to the police that isnt currently
available to us. And I see no merit in asking the shipping company to look into matters,
where we know the package  was safely delivered, and theres  no suggestion it was
tampered with.
Overall, I dont  think PayPal did enough in its investigation, or saw enough  in what  it found,
to safely and fairly decide the dispute in the buyers favour. I dont believe it treated Mr R
fairly, and I think it should now correct  that.
I can see that pursuing this matter  has caused  Mr R a great deal of time and effort, and Ive
no doubt its been very stressful for him. Particularly where, in my view, hes been the victim
of a scam  and has been unfairly  found  to blame  for it. In light of this, I think  PayPal should
now return Mr Rs money to him in full, pay interest on this amount, and also pay him £200 in
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im going to uphold Mr Rs complaint, and ask 
PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA to resolve  it by:-
1.Refunding £2396.80 to Mr Rs account, along  with any associated  fees and 
charges;
2.Paying 8% interest  on this sum from the date the money  was taken  from Mr R, to 
the date of settlement; and
3.Paying £200  to Mr R in compensation for his poor experience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Ref: DRN97005664Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97005665third provisional  decision
Having considered  all of the evidence  and arguments from the parties, I intend to reach  a
final decision  that differs substantially from that the contained in the Second  Provisional
Decision of 20 March  2019.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  I receive by 23 July 2019. But unless this
information changes my mind, my final decision  is likely  to be along the following lines.
complaint
Mr R feels  hes been treated unfairly by PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, in the investigation
it carried out into a buyer dispute raised against him, and the decision it then made  to refund
the buyer.
background
Mr R sold four items (three mobile telephones and a smart watch) on an auction website,
totalling £2396.80. The items were shipped from Hong Kong to the buyer  in France by
tracked courier.
The purchase  price was credited from the buyers PayPal account  to Mr Rs, but the buyer
then raised  a dispute with PayPal. He stated  hed received a box of small metal tools, which
wasnt as described  or what hed purchased, and which was recorded by PayPal as fitting its
dispute criteria for the buyer having  effectively received  an empty  box.
So PayPal refunded the buyer in full, removing the money from Mr Rs account.
Mr R complained to PayPal, saying  he was unhappy this was done without any proper
investigation or evidence, and hed like the transaction reversed.
PayPal didnt  uphold  Mr Rs complaint, so he came to this service. One of our investigators
looked into the case, and asked some further questions.
PayPal responded saying it had received a crime  report from the buyers local police
authority. And that, due to this, Mr R wasnt eligible for reimbursement under  its Seller
Protection Policy, as this policy  didnt  apply to claims, chargebacks and/or reversals where
the reason was that the purchase was Significantly Not as Described.
PayPal further stated  that all correct  procedures were followed in this case, and that it acted
in accordance  with the User Agreement  and policy.
Upon further enquiries by our investigator, PayPal said that if Mr R thinks that the buyers
statement is false, he should take this matter to the police  and it will then cooperate with any
ongoing investigation or contact initiated them in accordance with its legal responsibilities.  It
also said that Mr R also has the option to report this matter to the shipping company, and
they can investigate the delivery  of the parcel.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint,  saying PayPal had followed its process
correctly. But Mr R was unhappy with that conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
Two provisional decisions were then issued. The first, dated 6 December 2018,  upheld  the
complaint and said Mr R should receive a refund. The second,  dated  20 March 2019, which
was issued  following receipt of further information from the parties, reversed the uphold
decision, and said Mr R shouldnt get a refund.
Mr R was very disappointed  and unhappy with the second provisional decision,  and gave us
his further  detailed comments.
Ref: DRN97005666In the absence  of the original deciding  ombudsman, this complaints now been passed to me
to consider and issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought very carefully  about everything submitted so far from both sides; the results
of our own investigations; and the two decisions already issued, I intend to uphold  this
complaint and ask PayPal  to issue  Mr R with a refund, and also pay him some compensation
for his poor experience.
As correctly  stated by the previous ombudsman, its not our role to consider the correctness,
or otherwise,  of PayPals policies or dispute investigation processes. But what I can do is
look at the outcome of such policies  and processes, and decide whether  I feel they led to a
fair result for the consumer. And I dont think in Mr Rs case  there was.
I accept this is a difficult case,  where evidence either wasnt available, or wasnt conclusive.
And I agree  that its not necessarily straightforward to decide which  of the parties is
presenting the true version of events. But Im satisfied here that I can make a judgement call
and say that I prefer, on balance, Mr Rs evidence  that he did send the correct items to his
purchaser. And Im not persuaded by what PayPals said that it could safely accept  the
purchasers version of events if it wanted to reach a fair and balanced conclusion.
PayPal seems to have  accepted, largely on the purchasers word, that the items received
were not the phones and watch purchased, but small metal tools. However, beyond  this
description theres no further evidence that this was the case.  On the basis of this
submission, PayPal said that this fitted  its Significantly Not as Described criteria, and
therefore Mr R wasnt eligible for Seller Protection.
To me that doesnt seem  a fair conclusion  to reach. All we really  know for sure, on the
evidence, is that a 2kg weight  package was sent by Mr R, and that the same weight of
package was safely received  by the purchaser. But all that really tells us is that the items
sent, and received, were the same weight. Not what the items were, whether the items were
the same or not, or even whether they were small  metal  tools.  Which, if they were, would
have to conveniently weigh  the same as three phones and a smart watch  (per the weight
information as evidenced by Mr R). And, crucially, it doesnt show us that the items received
were Significantly Not as Described.
So I dont think the conclusion  reached by PayPal, that the buyer was telling the truth in
saying he received  only small  metal tools, was a fair or safe one. And therefore I think it was
wrong to categorise  the parcel contents as Significantly Not as Described.
Nor do I feel PayPal was fair to place  such reliance on the fact that the buyer  was able to
provide a police report. All that really shows is that an alleged crime has been reported - not
that ones been committed, or proven.
I also find the submission from Mr R persuasive, that it seems odd that his purchaser didnt
contact him on receipt of the goods, in a state of shock and outrage  to query  what  had
happened, rather than proceeding immediately down the official dispute route.  I agree  with
Mr R that this formal route is not easy or straightforward for a new account owner to
navigate, on their first purchase. And, even where the account  holder may have had
previous PayPal dispute experience,  Id still expect him to contact a seller first in a situation
such as this. Even if just to vent some frustration, or seek an explanation. So I agree theres
merit in the argument that this seems like an odd thing for the purchaser to have done.
Ref: DRN97005667Ultimately, I dont agree  that PayPal had enough  in the buyers statement, and the police
report, to make the decision  to decide  the dispute in the buyers favour.  To be clear, Im not
making a finding on PayPals processes here, albeit I do observe its investigation appears to
have been cursory   especially for such a high value transaction.
Whether or not PayPals processes are good enough, which is not for me to say, I dont
believe in this particular case they led to a fair outcome.  And its my role to decide  what  I
think a fair outcome would have been. I believe it would have  been to have accepted,  on all
of the evidence,  that it was more likely than not that Mr R did send the correct items; that he
should have been eligible for PayPal Seller  Protection; and that the money  shouldnt  have
been taken out of his account.
Further, I dont accept that PayPals  offer to assist  with any police investigation Mr R seeks,
or its suggestion that he takes the matter up with the shipping company, are very useful.
Realistically, a further  police  report is going to be simply that  a report of an alleged crime 
and its not clear what further evidence  might be available to the police  that isnt currently
available to us. And I see no merit in asking  the shipping company to look into matters,
where we know the package was safely delivered, and theres  no suggestion  it was
tampered with.
Overall, I dont think PayPal did enough in its investigation, or saw enough in what  it found,
to safely  and fairly decide the dispute in the buyers favour. I dont believe it treated Mr R
fairly, and I think it should now correct that.
I can see that pursuing this matter has caused Mr R a great  deal of time and effort, and Ive
no doubt its been very stressful for him. Particularly where, in my view,  hes been the victim
of a scam and has been unfairly found to blame for it. In light of this, I think PayPal should
now return Mr Rs money to him in full, pay interest on this amount, and also pay him £200 in
compensation.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im going to uphold  Mr Rs complaint, and ask PayPal Europe
Sarl & Cie, SCA to resolve it by:-
1.Refunding £2396.80 to Mr Rs account, along with any associated  fees and charges;
2.Paying 8% interest on this sum from the date the money  was taken  from Mr R, to the date 
of settlement; and
3.Paying £200 to Mr R in compensation  for his poor experience.
Ref: DRN9700566