K821x#15Complaint
Miss D complains Elevate  Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her 
irresponsibly. She also says that the loans appear on her credit report  as unpaid  even 
though they were repaid  a few years ago. 
Background
Miss D took 4 loans  with Sunny between  July 2015  and September  2015. Ive included  some 
details of the loans in the table below.
Loan  Number Loan Amount Received  Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £900 16/07/2015 11/11/2016*
2 £100 05/08/2015 01/12/2015
3 £50 21/08/2015 29/09/2015
4 £300 30/09/2015 11/11/2016*
*the repayment dates  for loans 1 and 4 reflect the date Sunny sold the outstanding balances  
to a third party.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was wrong  of Sunny to have provided loans 1 - 3. But she 
thought loan 4 shouldnt  have been  given to Miss D.
   
It appears Miss D accepted our adjudicators assessment. Sunny also agreed with the 
assessment and in line with the adjudicators recommendation,  said it would remove  any 
adverse information  about the loan from Miss Ds credit file and calculate whether any refund 
of interest would be payable. 
The third party who had taken over the debt confirmed  to Sunny that while  they had the debt 
Miss D had paid an additional £471.44.  Sunny  said taking these payments into account, 
Miss D still had an outstanding capital amount of £18.17  an amount she needed to repay. 
Following, a further review of the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill, Sunny agreed to waive 
this amount (£18.17). Miss D didnt accept this offer saying her credit  was ruined and she 
wanted the interest back she had paid.    
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Miss D doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Sunny wasnt  wrong to 
lend loans 1 to 3. It seems therefore  this lending  isnt in dispute and so I no longer think  that 
I need to make a finding about it. And as Sunny has agreed that loan 4 shouldnt have been 
lent, the issue for me to decide here is what Sunny  should do to put things right.
Ref: DRN99762212It may help, if I begin by explaining our approach to putting things right for a consumer. If a 
business has made an error  either  because  it accepts  one has been made or we decide  
something has gone wrong   the starting  point, for this service, is that a consumer should  be 
put back into the position they wouldve been in had the error not been made. However,  that 
is not always possible especially in cases  that involve lending money. 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. So normally, wed 
expect the consumer to have  to repay  at least this sum. This is why in such cases we ask 
the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, for example interest and 
charges. We also direct  an additional interest payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of 
use of the funds. This has the effect  of providing the consumer with an interest  free loan.
Now turning to the specifics of this case,  as the adjudicator has explained,  because  Sunny 
shouldnt have given  Miss D loan 4, she shouldnt  have to repay more  than the principal sum 
she borrowed (£300) or have the loan affect her credit  file in a negative way. Sunny  has 
agreed to remove any negative information  from Miss Ds credit file about this loan  which  I 
think is the correct thing to do. So the remainder of this decision  will focus on what  payments 
were made towards loan 4 to decide  if any refund is payable  to Miss D. 
I can see that when  Sunny  sold Miss Ds outstanding debt she had an outstanding balance  
on loan 1 of £392.74  but to be clear,  this loan has not been upheld, so we dont think 
Sunny needs  to take any further  action in relation to this loan. 
At this point in time, when loan 4 was sold, Miss D had already repaid Sunny a total of 
£203.12. So because we think this loan shouldnt have been given, Miss D would only need 
to repay  Sunny, what she borrowed  so £300. Therefore, Miss D still needed to make  a 
payment of £96.88 to Sunny. This means  her outstanding debt in total was £489.61 
(including the outstanding  balance on loan 1 and the extra she needed to repay in order  to 
repay loan 4). This excludes any interest  on loan 4 because  it shouldnt have been lent and 
therefore interest is no longer due. 
Based on what Sunny  has told us, Miss D made payments to the third party  of £471.44. If we 
assume, and I dont think unreasonably, based  on the limited information that I have that the 
third party used this amount  to repay  the outstanding balance  on loan 1  given this loan 
made up the largest proportion of the debt. And then the remainder to pay down the balance 
on loan 4, this still left an outstanding principal sum of £18.17  due for loan 4. 
As Ive explained above, our approach would ordinarily be that Sunny (by repurchasing  the 
debts from the third party)  could  collect this sum.  However, in this case,  this is no longer 
relevant because Sunny has agreed  to waive this balance. As such, so there is no longer  an 
outstanding balance on loan 1 or loan 4. 
What this means is that Miss D hasnt repaid more than the principal for loan 4 of £300. So, I 
dont think Sunny needs to refund anything directly to Miss D. As Ive said, Sunny has also 
agreed to remove any negative information  about  loan 4 from Miss Ds credit file, which also 
seems fair.  
Considering everything, I dont think I can fairly ask Sunny to do any more.    
Miss D has also said that her loans appeared on her credit report as unpaid  even though  
they were repaid a few years  ago. In her submission  to this service,  I can see that Miss D 
Ref: DRN99762213has referred to a zero balance being mentioned in correspondence with Sunny shes sent 
us. But Sunny has agreed to remove any negative information on the credit file about loan 4 
and this service hasnt upheld loan 1, so that means Sunny doesnt need  to take any further 
action in relation  to this loan.  
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Sunny is a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9976221