K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  they were mis-sold term assurance policies by The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc. 
They say they were advised  it was a condition of their mortgage and they didnt need it.    
background
In 1994, Mr and Mrs M took out a level term assurance policy in respect of their mortgage  for 
a £110,000 sum assured  and a term of 25 years. At the time life cover was a condition of the 
lending and the policy was assigned to the business. 
Because Mr and Mrs M paid off the borrowing early, the policy was assigned  back to them.  
They kept the policy going between  1998   when they moved abroad  and 2000 even 
though it wasnt  protecting  a mortgage at this stage. Its suggested this was done  to protect 
any future borrowing. 
In 2000, they returned to the UK and took out another mortgage, for £100,000. Life cover 
wasnt a condition of lending at the time but the policy  was used to provide cover. In 2017 
they repaid the mortgage but kept the policy going until 2019  when the term expired, as per 
the original 1994 agreement. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He didnt think the business had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs M signed the 1994 declaration  confirming that they didnt receive any 
advice. If the declaration wasnt correct or they needed advice they should  have 
raised it with the business. 
By signing  the declaration Mr and Mrs M confirmed that the decision to take out 
cover was theirs. 
The business adviser was a salaried employee and wasnt on a commission based 
income.   
The judgement  in the case of Plevin applies to a different product and not term 
assurance. So it isnt relevant in the way envisaged  by Mr and Mrs M.
The business was obliged to provide them information about the policy, but that 
doesnt mean it gave  advice. 
In 2000, life cover wasnt a condition of the business lending money.  
Mr and Mrs M were  in a position  to cancel their policy  when they paid their mortgage  
off early but chose  to continue with the policy  despite having  the option  to cancel 
and take out a new policy in 2000.  
In the exercise  of its legitimate commercial judgement the business is entitled to set 
the monthly premium  for the cover.  
Mr and Mrs M were  free to go to a different lender if they didnt agree with the 
business conditions. 
 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Theyve made a number of 
points but, in short, they maintain that they were  advised that the policy  was a condition  of 
their mortgage  and they certainly  werent told that it wasnt  a condition.  They  feel the 
judgement of Plevin should apply in this situation, and because of this theyre entitled to a 
refund of their premiums. 
Ref: DRN90776612Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind.    
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im not 
persuaded that the policy was mis-sold. 
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about  this matter.
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs M and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice. But its for me to decide,  based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more  likely than not to have happened.
The policy was a condition of the mortgage  in 1994 and so I dont think there was a way 
round this unless  Mr and Mrs M were  willing to go to a different provider. But around  that 
period most lenders  imposed life cover  as a condition of lending money. I also note they 
signed a declaration confirming that they didnt receive any advice. 
I note having paid off the mortgage  early  they kept the policy  going  after it was reassigned  to 
them. It wasnt for the business to tell them to cancel the policy  as they could have needed it 
for any number of reasons. 
In 2000, the policy was used to cover their new mortgage without any advice, and as a result 
Im unable to consider  the suitability of this. I believe  the onus was on them to make sure it 
was suitable for their circumstances.
Because they already  had cover, I wouldnt  expect the business  to advise them  to take out a 
new policy, given they already had sufficient cover in pace at the time, albeit for a slightly 
larger amount. 
On balance Im unable to safely say what  was likely  to be discussed amounted to advice. 
But even if I had found that advice  was given I couldnt say that the recommendation for 
cover  they already had in place   in respect of a new mortgage  is wrong  or inappropriate. 
And even  if they were  strongly advised  to protect  their mortgage this doesnt mean they were  
told it was a condition  of their mortgage.  
Ref: DRN90776613I appreciate what Mr and Mrs M say about  their plans to pay off a substantial  amount of the 
borrowing early on  which they did  but without the benefit of hindsight  at the time there 
was no absolute guarantee  that they would do this, despite their best intentions.  And there 
was no also guarantee that their circumstances might not change. So, I dont  think  it was a 
bad thing to cover themselves in the event they were unable (for whatever reason) to pay off 
a chunk of the mortgage in the way that they had planned.
Im persuaded the documentation provided made  clear the nature and operation  of the 
policy, from the outset, as well as the relevant  charges. And having had the policy since  
1994, they were  familiar with how it worked. If Mr and Mrs M didnt read the documentation  
provided I dont think the business can be held responsible for that.
I also dont think it was for the business  to tell Mr and Mrs M to cancel their existing policy  
once theyd paid off the 2000 mortgage.  
I note Mr and Mrs Ms point about the judgement  given in Plevin,  but that case was 
specifically in relation to Payment Protection Insurance  (PPI) and not term assurance,  so 
isnt directly applicable. Notwithstanding  the points they make about  the inflated premiums  I 
cant say that the relationship between them and the business was unfair due to non-
disclosure of materials in connection with the sales. 
I also note the points made by Mr and Mrs M about  the large fines  imposed on the business 
in relation to mis-selling other products. But this isnt evidence  of mis-selling in this instance.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this compliant. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9077661