K821x#15complaint
Miss C says Provident Personal  Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss C had four home loans with Provident.  Ive summarised some of the details Provident 
provided about these loans  in the table below.
loan no. start date end date amount weeks repayment
1 01/11/2010 19/04/2011 £500 52 £17.50
2 15/04/2011 20/12/2011 £700 50 £24.50
3 16/12/2011 29/05/2013 £800 60 £24
4 23/05/2013 23/04/2014 £800 63 £24
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. They 
thought Provident shouldnt have  approved  loans  2 to 4 because the repayments were  such 
a significant portion of Miss Cs income  that they were unlikely to be sustainably  affordable.
They also thought that by loan 4, the pattern of borrowing alone  suggested  the loans were 
not likely  to be sustainably affordable.
Provident didnt  respond to the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Provident should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN99096382There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
I should start by saying  that I dont have  any evidence (from either party) about Miss Cs 
income and expenditure for the period covering loan 1. Ive seen the loan agreement but the 
application form doesnt appear  to contain the same income and expenditure details  as the 
application forms for loans 2 to 4. With no evidence from either party  to help me decide 
whether loan 1 was sustainably affordable, I am unable to make any findings in respect of 
this loan.
Loans 2 to 4 were taken out over about two years, between April 2011  and May 2013. 
Miss Cs weekly  income, as declared  on the application forms, was £190 for loan 2; £110 per 
week for loan 3; and £135 per week for loan 4. Miss Cs weekly expenditure (excluding her 
existing commitments  to Provident) was recorded  as £0 for loan 2; £35 for loan 3; and £20 
for loan 4. 
Im not particularly persuaded by the income  and expenditure analysis Provident carried  out 
for any of loans 2 to 4. It seems unlikely to me that Miss C had virtually  no other outgoings, 
other than her existing  commitments to Provident. Miss C was on a low income and 
I understand she was a full-time student  at the time of loans 3 to 4, so I think  its likely she 
did have other outgoings  and any reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Cs 
expenditure wouldve taken this into account. Ive seen, for example,  that Miss C had a 
number of other credit commitments (to at least three payday  lenders) at the time she took 
out loan 3. For the period  of time I do have  bank statements for Miss C, theres  evidence  of a 
reliance on payday  and home credit lending to meet ordinary, everyday outgoings  and 
I dont think thats  a situation in which lending like that provided by Provident could be repaid 
sustainably.
I think Provident, bearing in mind  Miss Cs low income, ought  to have done more  to check 
the loans were affordable  including asking for information to check Miss Cs expenditure 
(such as bank statements). But, putting this aside, I think Provident ought  to have realised 
that these loans were  too expensive, on a weekly basis, to be sustainably affordable for 
someone in Miss Cs circumstances. Each of loans 2 to 3 had a term of about a year,  or a 
little more, and the repayments left Miss C with little room for any unexpected/unplanned 
expenditure  which  might  be sustainable  for a month or two, but I dont think is sustainable 
Ref: DRN99096383over a year. In saying this, Im taking into account  that Providents affordability  checks  were 
inadequate and that Miss Cs expenditure was likely  to be higher than it has recorded.
In addition to the above  I have found  that Provident,  by the time of loan 4, ought to have 
realised, from the pattern of lending, that further lending  wasnt  likely to be sustainable. Each 
of the loans before loan 4 appears to have been taken either to repay the preceding loan or 
immediately after the preceding loan was repaid  and therefore  likely taken as a 
consequence of the hole repaying that loan left in Miss Cs finances. By approving loan 4, 
I think Provident also unfairly prolonged Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing  her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
So for the reasons given above,  Im upholding Miss Cs complaint about  loans 2 to 4.
putting things right
I understand loans  2 to 4 were all repaid. So Provident should:
refund  the interest and charges Miss C paid for loans 2 to 4
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Miss C paid the interest 
and charges, until the date of settlement
Miss Cs loans were all repaid over six years ago. So its unlikely they will still appear on her 
credit report.  If they do, Provident should now remove them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident  must give 
Miss C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part. Provident  Personal Credit Limited must put things right 
by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909638