K821x#15complaint
Ms M and Mr M complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc continue to chase  them for a 
debt despite it accepting a payment in full and final settlement.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 5 February 2019,  part of which is copied below.
Ms M and Mr M took out a joint loan with NatWest when  they were  married. Theyre  now 
divorced. This complaint  is brought by Ms M on their joint behalf, so Ill refer to her 
throughout this decision.
Some time after the loan was taken out, Ms M experienced financial  difficulties  and got in 
contact with NatWest to let it know. NatWest  agreed  to accept reduced payments on the 
loan to help out.
In 2014, as part of their separation, Ms M agreed  to accept responsibility for their loan and 
Mr M agreed  he would  no longer have any interest in their matrimonial home. 
Conversations between Ms M and NatWest about the loan continued over the next couple  of 
years. From  July 2017 Ms M made  a number of offers  to make bulk reductions to the debt. 
But these  werent  accepted. 
Then in 2018  Ms M contacted NatWest to let it know that, as part of their divorce  settlement, 
the courts said she needed to take responsibility  for the debt. While NatWest  acknowledged 
this, it let Ms M know that, as far as the bank was concerned, she and Mr M were both still 
jointly and severally  liable  for the debt. 
In July 2018 Ms M made a number of further  offers to make a bulk reduction to the debt. 
After some negotiation, a figure was agreed  on and Ms M made  the payment. She says she 
understood this to be in full and final settlement of the entire  loan. 
It only became apparent  after the payment was made that NatWest  had intended  the 
agreement to only be in settlement  of Ms Ms liability  for the loan rather than the entire  debt. 
It said Ms M should have  known this as it had mentioned  it several times over the time theyd  
been in contact. It said it still intended to pursue Mr M for the remaining balance, explaining 
that he was jointly and severally liable  for the debt. 
Ms M wasnt happy with this, saying that NatWest  knew she had accepted responsibility for 
the debt as part of the divorce settlement. NatWest said it wasnt  party  to this agreement so 
it wasnt bound by it.
 
Ms M didnt agree with this and so she complained to us. Our investigator said,  in summary, 
she didnt think the evidence showed  NatWest  had agreed the payment would be in full and 
final settlement of the entire debt, just Ms Ms part of it. She said NatWest  had made  it clear  
during correspondence it would still chase  Mr M for the debt as he was jointly  and severally 
liable. So Ms M asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
Ref: DRN91715942my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Im likely to reach a 
different decision than the investigator. 
From the evidence provided by the parties, its clear it only became apparent there  was 
confusion over the terms of the agreement after Ms M had made the payment  to reduce the 
loan. Up to this point, both Ms M and NatWest  thought they understood what had been  
agreed. But both understood different things. 
So the decision I need to make here, is whether the terms of the agreement were  clear and 
whether the parties should be held to them.
After she made the payment Ms M queried why the loan hadnt  been  closed and why 
NatWest intended  to pursue Mr M for the outstanding balance  NatWest  said
it was never  set out that the offer you made was on a joint basis. The offer was accepted 
and paid on a sole basis against your name
So I accept  that NatWest intended  to accept the offer on that basis, but Im not satisfied 
thats what it actually  said. Ill explain why.
Ms M made  an offer to NatWest which was rejected. It then made a counter offer, saying
in respect  of yourself, I would be willing to accept  the same % counter offer of £16,735.
Im satisfied NatWest made  it clear  this offer was about Ms Ms part of the debt.
Ms M rejected this offer. She then made  a further counter offer, saying
Would you be willing  to accept £16,000 as full and final settlement  offer valid for 60 days 
please?
NatWest responded  
I have reviewed your further  offer and in view of your overall circumstances I would be 
willing to accept this offer valid for 60 days from today
This last exchange was where the agreement was made. Im satisfied Ms M clearly stated 
the offer was in full and final settlement and didnt  qualify  this by saying it was just for her 
part of the debt. Im therefore satisfied it was more  likely than not her intention  that the offer 
was in full and final settlement of the entire  debt. 
NatWest accepted the offer without  question or clarification of what the offer was. And in the 
absence of that, Im satisfied that a reasonable interpretation of Ms Ms offer was in full and 
final settlement of the entire debt.
I acknowledge what NatWest says about  it advising Ms M a number of times during its 
contact with her that it still considered Mr M to be jointly and severally  liable for the loan. But 
I dont think that was in fact what was said. Ms M made an offer in full and final settlement of 
the loan - and NatWest  accepted that offer. The implication here is that Ms M should have 
Ref: DRN91715943worked out on what basis NatWest was accepting her offer, and then understood what the 
bank meant  (rather than what  it said).  I dont consider it fair and reasonable of NatWest to 
expect that. 
So, in summary  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  for NatWest  to expect further 
repayment of this debt by Ms M or anyone else. I therefore intend to uphold this complaint 
and instruct  NatWest  to write off the reminder of the loan, refund any payments Ms M has 
made since the bulk reduction  and to amend Ms Ms credit file to correctly reflect this.
Its clear from Ms Ms evidence she has found  the confusion over the loan very distressing. 
Shes explained shes a sole carer for her child and has experienced financial difficulties 
over a number of years. She thought  shed  reached an agreement  with NatWest  that would 
see the loan she held with her ex-husband  repaid  in full. I understand why discovering  this 
wasnt the case would have been distressing in her circumstances.  So I also intend to 
instruct NatWest to pay £300 for the trouble and upset she experienced as a consequence 
of its error. Although  both Ms M and Mr M are parties to the complaint, thats because this 
was a joint loan.  In my view it was Ms M alone  that was upset and inconvenienced  by what  
happened, and so I think it would  be fair and reasonable for the compensation to be paid to 
her alone.
the responses to my decision
In response to my provisional decision,  NatWest  didnt  accept  what  Id recommended and 
said, in summary,
Ms M was aware it wasnt party  to the divorce  settlement and that both parties were 
jointly and severally liable for the debt
Ms M had confirmed she was only making  a sole offer for the partial repayment of the 
debt
Ms M accepted my recommendations and added, in summary
NatWest had negatively impacted  her credit file
It had downgraded her account  because it was in recoveries
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision Ive acknowledged that during the conversations  between  Ms M 
and NatWest, it explained it considered both parties to be jointly and severally  liable for the 
debt. And I accept it also pointed out to Ms M that it wasnt  party to the divorce agreement.
NatWest has pointed  to an internal record  of a conversation it had with Ms M in April 2018  
when she made an offer to make a lump sum reduction to the debt. The note says
Call in from Mrs cust adv she split from husband  however the courts advise that she has to 
take responsibility for debts. Adv cust I understand this, however, as far as the bank is 
concerned the customer is j&S [jointly and severally]  liable. Cust acknowledged this. Cust 
confirmed is only making a sole offer 
Ref: DRN91715944So I accept  NatWest was clear about its position at this time, in April 2018.  But after that, a 
number of offers and counter offers were  made  both by NatWest and Ms M and Im satisfied 
that each of these  superseded those  that went before.
Ultimately, as I explained in my provisional decision, NatWest  and Ms M only came to an 
agreement about  the bulk reduction in July 2018, some three months after the conversation 
NatWest refers to. And when this conversation happened there was nothing to suggest that 
the agreement  being reached  was only for Ms Ms part of the debt. Ms M made an offer in 
full and final settlement  and NatWest accepted it. Ms M didnt state it was only for her part of 
the debt and NatWest  didnt  clarify her offer or let her know  under what terms it was 
accepting it. I therefore remain satisfied that a fair and reasonable interpretation of Ms Ms 
offer was that it was for the debt in its entirety and not just for her part of it and that NatWest 
accepted it on that basis.
In summary,  NatWest hasnt said anything  which  alters  my position  so Im still upholding this 
complaint. 
As far as Ms Ms comments about her credit file are concerned, in my instruction to NatWest 
Ive told it to amend  the file to correctly  reflect what should  have happened   that the bulk 
reduction repaid  the loan in its entirety. Having done this and taken the rest of the action Im 
instructing, NatWest should  also reconsider  Ms Ms account status and let her know  whether 
an upgraded account is available to her.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms M and Mr Ms complaint and instruct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to 
Refund any payments  Ms M has made to the loan after the bulk reduction  of £16,000
oPay interest at 8% simple per annum on these amounts from the date they 
were made to the date theyre  refunded*
Having made the refund, to write off the remaining loan balance
Amend Ms Ms credit file so it correctly reflects the loan being repaid  in its entirety 
from the date the bulk reduction of £16,000 was made
Pay Ms M £300 to recognise the trouble and upset  it caused her
Reconsider Ms Ms account status in the light of the above and advise her if an 
upgrade is available 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
* If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M and Mr M how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Ms M and Mr M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN9171594