K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  hasnt  done  enough  to help 
him after he found significant problems  with his property. 
background
Mr M took out a mortgage with Halifax to buy a property  in 2014. When  he tried to sell the 
property he found  out the necessary  planning consents and building  regulations  werent in 
place. Mr M says the work  to convert  the property, which was previously a basement, was so 
poor that it was dangerous to live in the property. Mr M says he cant afford the costs of 
putting it right. He wanted to sell the property because he was made redundant and was 
concerned about  maintaining mortgage  payments  if he didnt have regular work. 
Mr M says Halifax should have offered help  such as allowing him to stop mortgage 
payments. Instead,  it appointed solicitors and added their fees to the mortgage.  Mr M asks 
how the valuer acting  for Halifax failed to notice  the defects. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said:
Halifax arranged for a valuation by a qualified surveyor. The valuation  was for Halifaxs  
benefit, as lender,  to help it decide whether  the property was suitable  security. The report 
said it was limited  in scope and a more  detailed survey could be requested. 
The valuation report said the property had been converted  from a basement  area and 
checks should be made that the necessary consents and permissions were in place. The 
general terms under which valuers  operate say these checks are a matter  for the legal 
advisers. Mr Ms solicitor provided  a certificate of title to Halifax.
Halifax was entitled to rely on the surveyors report and the certificate  of title from Mr Ms 
solicitor. 
Since the complaint was brought to us, Mr M has received a settlement  from the solicitor  that 
acted on the purchase. Halifax has agreed to remove legal fees (and related interest) that it 
applied to Mr Ms account. It didnt agree to compensate  Mr M for the costs of an after event 
insurance policy he took out so that he could take action against the solicitor that acted on 
the purchase. Mr M says after paying the insurance fee and for the required works  hell still 
be out of pocket. 
Ref: DRN91942092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Im very sorry for the circumstances here. Ive no doubt that this been an upsetting  and 
difficult time for Mr M. But I must consider here whether Halifax  has made an error.
Halifax appointed  a suitably qualified surveyor, a member of the Royal  Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors, to carry  out the valuation.  The report  says the valuation  involves a 
limited inspection of the property  highlighting only those items which we consider will 
materially affect value. 
Mr M says that some of the defects should have been obvious  to the surveyor.  Ive seen the 
list Mr M sent to Halifax about  the problems he needs to sort out and understand why he 
says this. But the surveyor wouldnt necessarily have known when the property was first 
converted (and, therefore, what building regulations were in place at the time). And, in any 
case, he was there to value the property,  not to check that it met with building  regulations.  
The valuation report says all necessary consents  and permissions for the conversion should  
be checked. This was the responsibility  of the legal adviser. 
I also think it was reasonable for Halifax to rely on the certificate of title from Mr Ms solicitor. 
If the solicitor made an error (and I make no findings  about  that here),  I dont think  Halifax 
would have known  it at the time.
So I dont  think Halifax made an error  when it offered to lend to Mr M.
Mr M says Halifax should have given him more help when he found  out about  the problems 
with the property. He says it should have let him stop mortgage payments  and helped  him 
with the costs of reports by structural engineers  and his legal costs. I understand this would 
have made  things easier for Mr M, but Halifax didnt have to offer this help. 
Halifax says it refunded legal fees applied to Mr Ms account with related interest. I think  that 
was the right thing  to do.
I know this is disappointing for Mr M. But I cant reasonably  require Halifax  to pay for Mr Ms 
costs related to putting problems with the property right or require it to pay compensation to 
for the upset all this has caused him. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9194209