K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited unfairly  cancelled  his 
motor policy  and required him to pay his full premium following an accident.
background
Mr G bought his policy  through  an online aggregator site on 25 November 2019. His policy 
provided cover from 1 December. Unfortunately, he was involved with an accident on 
3 December.
However, on 29 November Southern  Rock  said it asked him to produce some documents  to 
validate his policy.  It said it sent this to him via email. It said Mr G didnt respond. 
Southern Rock said it then sent a letter and email on 17 December. It said it followed this up 
with a text message to his mobile  phone on 18 December. It said Mr G didnt respond to 
these either,  so it sent him another letter and email  on 24 December saying that his policy 
would be cancelled on 29 December.  It said it sent him another text on 27 December. It said 
it didnt receive any response  from Mr G so it cancelled his policy on 29 December. 
Given Mr G had been involved  in an accident  Southern Rock asked him to pay the entire 
premium for the year. 
Mr G said he didnt receive  any of the communications from Southern Rock. He also said he 
had ticked the box to receive  everything by post. Mr G wanted his policy reinstated and for 
Southern Rock to stop chasing  him for payment  of his years premium.
Southern Rock didnt think it had done  anything wrong. So Mr G brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator also didnt think Southern  Rock  had done anything wrong. Mr G disagreed  
and so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr G had originally raised  a complaint about how liability was settled by Southern Rock  as 
regards the accident and he has confirmed  that he no longer  wanted us to consider this 
aspect. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Theres no evidence available to show  that Mr G requested all communications on this policy 
should be sent to him by post. In any event, Southern Rock did send him two letters  on 
17 December and then on 24 December. It also tried to contact him by text and it emailed 
him.
I consider Southern Rock used all methods available to it, letter, text and email, to notify 
Mr G that he needed  to produce his documents to verify his policy  and its cover. I think  this 
is reasonable and fair. Therefore it follows that I dont think it did anything  wrong  with its 
communications with him.
Ref: DRN92853222Its not unusual  for motor  insurers to request these documents Southern Rock requested 
from Mr G to verify cover. Almost all insurers  routinely do this. So I dont consider there was 
anything wrong  in Southern Rock asking Mr G for his documents.
A failure  to produce these  documents means  the cover  cant  then be appropriately verified. 
Obviously, in that situation,  Southern  Rock couldnt  continue to provide any cover to Mr G. 
Therefore, I dont consider it did anything wrong  in cancelling  his policy.
Given the accident occurred on 3 December,  this means that an insured event under the 
policy occurred. In those  circumstances,  the full premium is always payable, as Southern 
Rock then has to indemnify  Mr G. Consequently I consider that Southern  Rock  didnt do 
anything wrong  in asking Mr G to pay his premium. Had no accident occurred, I would have 
expected Southern Rock  to simply charge Mr G for his time on risk and nothing more.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9285322