K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in 2002. 
Mrs S took her credit  card out with Egg. Canada  Square Operations  Limited is responsible 
for complaints like this about Egg. So to keep things simple, I will refer to Egg for the rest of 
this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs S disagreed with that view. She said that she did not recall applying for PPI. She had 
sick pay and other  means to make repayments towards  her credit card if she was out of 
work. 
As Mrs S didnt agree  with our adjudicators  view,  the matter  has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S, but I havent  upheld this complaint. I will explain why below. 
Mrs S told us initially that she bought PPI at the same time as making a postal  application for 
her credit card. However, after considering some further evidence  sent to us by Egg, Im 
satisfied the policy was sold online.  With that in mind, Ive considered some sample 
screenshots of what Mrs S is likely  to have seen when she applied for her credit card. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs S would have known this PPI policy  was 
optional and she didnt  have to buy it if she didnt want it. Mrs S says she has no recollection 
of ever buying a PPI policy. But from the screenshots, I dont think her application  for the 
credit card would have been  able to proceed if she didnt  indicate whether or not she wanted  
PPI. 
There were two equally prominent boxes to mark to indicate her PPI preference   one to say 
she wanted a policy and another to say she didnt. As PPI was added to the account, I think  
its most  likely that Mrs S said she wanted cover. I think the wording is sufficiently clear to 
show that she could  have refused the policy if she wanted to. 
Egg didnt  advise Mrs S to buy PPI. But it still had to make  sure she had enough information 
about the cover so she could decide  for herself  whether it was a good fit for her needs. That 
information had to be clear, fair and not misleading.  
From looking  at the screenshot, I dont think the full cost of the cover  is immediately clear. I 
say this because  I dont think its clear that Mrs S would have had to pay interest on her 
premiums if she didnt  repay her balance  in full every month. 
Ref: DRN96332662So the question  for me now is whether Mrs S would have acted differently if Egg had told her 
everything it should have done.  To help me decide what shes  likely to have done, Ive 
thought about the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also looked at what  Mrs S told 
us about her personal circumstances at the time.  
I can see that if shed  had to make  a claim on the policy,  10% of Mrs S credit  card balance 
would have been repaid  for every  month  she was out of work  for up to 12 months for each 
claim. Mrs S told us that she would have received six months full pay and six months half 
pay from her employer  if she became  unwell.  But it follows  that the PPI would have paid out 
for longer than her full sick pay would have  lasted. 
Mrs S also told us that she could have  asked family  members for help if she was out of work. 
I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of those family members  to help. But 
circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that help would  have been  available  to 
Mrs S as and when she needed  it. 
In her response to our adjudicator, Mrs S representatives said she had other  means such  
assavings. But she told us that she had taken  her credit card out to pay for home 
improvements. So if she did have savings, it looks as though she wanted  to keep them 
intact. And with PPI, she could have used those  savings on her other essential expenditure 
at what would have  no doubt been  a very stressful  time for her if she was out of work.  
Mrs S told us she was in good health  when this cover was sold to her. So I dont think  shed 
have been caught by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent  seen  
anything unusual about her employment  circumstances that would have stopped her from 
making a successful claim if she needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think Mrs S would  have  acted  differently  if shed been  given 
more or better information about the cover. I havent  upheld  the complaint  and I dont require 
Egg to take any further action. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Canada Square  Operations Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9633266