K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  mis-sold loans to him because  
it failed to carry out adequate checks. 
Mr H complains also that upon requesting details of his account Uncle Buck failed  to give 
him those  details. 
background
Mr H took three loans with Uncle Buck in 2014. Here is a short  summary of them.  
LoanLoan 
approved and 
fundedPrincipal  
amountInterest to 
repay 
(rounded)Repay  date Status
1 16 May 2014 £200 £70 27 May 2014 repaid
2 27 May 2014 £450 £157 27 June 2014 repaid
3 27 June  2014 £550 £192due 28 July 
2014unpaid
Recently our adjudicator  has emailed  Mr H about that part of his complaint which related to 
Uncle Buck  not sending  him details of his account.  Mr H has told us that he is content for the 
complaint to proceed without consideration of this aspect. So this decision will not address it 
and I treat this part as having been resolved.  
Mr H does not think that adequate checks were carried out at the time of lending.  He thinks  
that if it had a stricter lending criteria then [Uncle Buck]  would have clearly  seen my 
situation and not lent me further  money. Uncle Bucks detailed submissions on that aspect 
of the complaint were received by us in November 2018.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and she thought that Uncle Buck  should  put 
things right in relation  to Loan  3. Mr H did not add any further points for us to consider  upon 
receiving our adjudicators  opinion.  Uncle  Buck did not agree to it.
So the unresolved part of the complaint is Loan 3 and this has been passed  to me for a 
decision. I will look at the complaint surrounding  Loan 3 only.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Ref: DRN94192932Uncle Bucks submissions
Uncle Buck  has explained  in detail  what it did before  approving  the loans which included 
carrying out a verification  check and a comprehensive credit  bureau check. Copies  of those 
results have been submitted to us. 
Uncle Buck  also says:
When considering  total expenses  and disposable income we take the higher end of 
the indicated range, which will generate a natural contingency element in our 
calculations. In addition,  Uncle  Buck  allows a buffer  when calculating disposable 
income so that we have an in-built  element of contingency  within  our calculations.
what have I seen?
I have taken all these  points into account  when considering at Loan  3. I have looked at 
whether Uncle  Buck  did the proportionate  checks I would have expected it to have done. If 
they were done,  then usually I would conclude that it would have been reasonable for Uncle 
Buck to have lent to Mr H. But if it did not carry out those proportionate checks I have gone  
on to look at what it likely would have  found  out if it had done better checks. 
Loan 3 was for £550 and the largest amount Mr H had asked for. His repayment  amount was 
going to be about £742. At this point in the lending relationship between  Mr H and Uncle 
Buck where Mr H had taken two loans in quick succession and for ever increasing  amounts, 
I would have expected that his monthly net income,  regular  outgoings  and regular financial 
commitments would have  been  checked.  And in addition whether Mr H had any other 
outstanding short term loans at the time he applied for Loan 3. 
I note that Uncle Buck  has shown us its calculations on Mr Hs expenditure. It says Mr Hs 
declared income was £4,525 and after deductions his affordability amount was £1,656. But 
I also see that Uncle Buck explained  to our adjudicator that it has had IT issues  with records 
from 2014 and it has not retained  accurate budget  figures for Mr H. So I cannot  rely on this 
calculated figure  by Uncle Buck. 
Uncle Bucks representative went on to explain to our adjudicator  that Uncle Buck  would 
have asked Mr H for his income  and fixed outgoings like rent, loans,  store/credit cards, utility 
bills and any essential outgoings. But it has no records on which it can rely to show  us this.  
And I would have expected Uncle Buck to have known about  Mr Hs STL at this point. And 
no record of this is shown  for June  2014.  
Uncle Buck  has said that it cannot decision on what it cannot see and explains that it 
had access to good levels of credit  bureau  information and used the information  given  by the 
applicant and other sources . 
I looked at the detailed  credit bureau  search result which was carried out on 14 May 2014 
(before Loan 1). It was not going  to be of use for matters in June 2014   later in time. But 
what those results do demonstrate is that Mr H had a lot of outstanding debt and had been 
using STL lenders  in the past. So in June 2014  I can see that Uncle Buck  was on notice that 
this was Mr Hs history  and so it could, and in my view should, have checked Mr Hs up to 
date situation  before approving Loan 3. 
Ref: DRN94192933I have reviewed Mr Hs financial  situation  as outlined by our adjudicator in her view letter  and 
I can see that Mr H was not likely to have had enough money  to repay  the £742 repayment  
figure. And I say this having  seen Mr Hs bank statements provided to us by Mr H and 
considered the details  he has given  us about his outgoings. And he had an outstanding STL 
at the time. I have  used bank statements as it is a convenient and easily accessible method 
to check details but it is not the only method of gathering information. 
I do not think that Uncle Buck did carry out checks I would have considered to have been 
proportionate for Loan 3, and what I have  seen leads me to think that if it had, Uncle  Buck 
would have discovered that Mr H was not able to repay this loan. I uphold Mr Hs complaint 
in relation to Loan 3.
putting things right
Because Uncle Buck should not have given Mr H, Loan 3 its not right that Mr H should have 
to pay interest or charges  on it, or have it affect his credit file in a negative way. 
Uncle Buck  has informed us that the debt has been sold to a third party  and some of the full 
capital sum remains outstanding.  If Uncle  Buck is able to buy it back  then it should do so and 
carry out the action  points  listed  here. 
If it is not able to buy the debt back then Uncle Buck should liaise  with the debt owner to 
achieve the action points  listed  here:
remove any interest and charges in relation to Loan 3 and treat any payments made 
by Mr H (including any payments to that third party)  as if made to pay down  the 
principal sum; and
if applicable, where this may have led to any overpayments having been made for 
Loan 3, then these overpayments need to be refunded to Mr H with 8% simple  
interest* calculated from the date these overpayments would have arisen to the date 
this complaint is resolved; and
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loan from Mr Hs credit file. 
Uncle Buck  is able to use any financial redress amount it owes Mr H to be set off against any 
principal sum owed by Mr H to Uncle Buck. If a balance remains  outstanding then the parties 
need to enter into a mutually agreeable repayment plan and Uncle  Buck is reminded that it 
needs to treat Mr Hs debt issue in a positive and sympathetic way.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest and it must give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN94192934my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct that Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP put things right in the way I have said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9419293