K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about Nationwide Building  Societys  refusal to give him the refund he has
requested on his credit card account.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ps complaint in my earlier decision, which was a provisional  
decision. But for ease of reading I will set out that background again here.
In June 2018 Mr P spoke  to a company that I will call C about  his motorhome. C told Mr P 
that his motorhome required repairs.  C gave  Mr P a verbal estimate  of the costs.  It is Mr Ps 
position that this estimate was a fixed price  for the work, which  was binding. The work 
began in September 2018 and finished  in October  2018. Mr P came to collect  his 
motorhome. At this point, according  to Mr P, C told him that the cost of the work  had 
increased. Specifically,  Cs bill was for twice the amount of the original estimate. Mr P 
suggested this was a breach of contract because the price  of the work had been fixed; 
moreover, he indicated  that given the estimate  had been so far out, it had been misleading.  
Mr P disagreed that C was entitled to charge him the new amount. Mr P wanted a 
breakdown of the costs. In particular, he wanted, amongst other things, the names and 
qualifications of everyone who worked  on his motorhome their start and finish times,  and the 
specific work carried out by each  worker.
Despite his misgivings Mr P paid the bill in full, but under protest, he did so partly  by using 
his credit card with Nationwide. Mr P wants Nationwide to pay him the difference  between 
the estimated  and the actual bill. Mr P also wanted to be refunded for the cost of replacing 
the motorhomes  water  tanks that appeared to have been damaged in the course of the 
repairs. In bringing  his complaint Mr P relies  on the rights he suggests he has against 
Nationwide under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Nationwide declined to meet Mr Ps claim.  It explained  that it had contacted C. C had told it 
that Mr P had been provided with an estimate,  but this was precisely what it was, that is an 
indication of what the repairs might cost.  C had also indicated that Mr P had been  told when 
the cost of the repairs increased as the repairs were in progress. Moreover, Nationwide  
thought that C had supplied a detailed invoice that provided a reasonable explanation for the 
amount it had ultimately charged. In the circumstances, Nationwide,  did not agree it ought 
reasonably to refund Mr P as he asked. 
That said,  it accepted  C had damaged the motorhomes water tanks in the course of carrying  
out the repairs. Nationwide thought C ought  not to have done  this, so it offered to refund 
Mr P for the cost of the water tanks.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides  response Mr P complained to our service.
I reviewed Mr Ps complaint and when Id finished I issued a provisional  decision. In it I did 
not recommend  upholding Mr Ps complaint. In summary, I agreed that it was fair and 
reasonable to take the provisions of Section 75 into account when looking at this complaint. I 
explained, as the parties  already knew, that Section 75 provides consumers with some 
protection where there  has been  misrepresentation or breach of contract.
I looked first at the question of misrepresentation. I was persuaded that, given the nature of 
the work,  C was unlikely  to have been  able to know exactly what  work was going to be 
Ref: DRN99212192required in advance. That being so, I was satisfied that C had given Mr P an estimate rather 
than a hard and fast set price. I accepted that it was also likely that C had indicated the 
estimate was the minimum Mr P should expect  to pay. Further, I was not persuaded Mr P 
had made  a loss here; the work had been done  and he now had the benefit of it. Neither  was 
I persuaded that he would  not have  gone ahead with the work if he had known the estimate  
was not guaranteed to be the final price.
I then looked at breach of contract. In the circumstances, Id already found  that C had given 
Mr P an estimate of the cost not a fixed price. It followed  that I found it was never  a term of 
the contract  that C would  only charge Mr P the estimated costs  for the work. Neither  did I 
think the provisions in consumer law that apply  where the contract  does not expressly fix a 
price or other consideration  and does not say how it is to be fixed  should apply here.
For all of these reasons I concluded that I was not persuaded that the contract  had been 
misrepresented or breached. It followed I had no proper basis  to ask Nationwide  to refund 
Mr P. 
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision  should  they wish to do so. They  
both did. We sent Nationwide, Mr Ps response  and vice versa.  I invited both parties to 
comment on the other partys response should  they want to do that.
In short,  Nationwide  responded  to say that it agreed with my provisional decision.  It 
suggested there was nothing  persuasive  to suggest that Mr P and C had ever agreed a fixed  
price for the contract.  Rather, from its perspective, all the information provided  tended  to 
show that C had estimated  the cost  which was intended to give Mr P an idea of the 
minimum he could expect  to pay, and that Mr P had been kept informed when  those costs  
increased.
Mr P sent in a detailed  response. In summary,  he reiterated his previous stance. He also 
suggested that since C was the designer  and manufacturer of his motor  home and since  this 
was a standard repair to a known problem,  C had been able to say from the beginning what 
the cost would be. Therefore, Mr P suggested  C was in a position  to agree a fixed price for 
the contract  and that is what it had done.  He mentioned that some  of the information that C 
had provided was hearsay. He did not agree that it was possible for C to have  done  all the 
work it had charged  him for in the time that it had had the motorhome in its possession.
Further, he told us that C had done remedial  work  on his motorhome in the past (he has had 
the motorhome  since 2008) and the estimates  hed been given for those repairs had been  
accurate. He also pointed out that those  estimates  had been  verbal  not written. 
my findings
I thank Mr P and Nationwide for their responses. Ive re-considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Ive reviewed  the complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
It has been particularly  helpful that each of the parties took the time to set out their views, so 
that I have  been  able to gain a fuller  understanding of their respective positions and 
concerns.
Ref: DRN99212193I have come to the conclusion that I have no proper  basis to require Nationwide to do 
anything more. I recognise this may disappoint  Mr P, thats not my intention, far from it. Ill go 
through my reasons  below.
As I also said in my provisional  decision, Im very aware that Ive summarised  this complaint 
in far less detail than the parties and Ive done  so using my own words.  Im not going to 
respond to every single  point made  by all the parties  involved.  No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think  are the key issues  here.  
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Up to a point, I can see where  Mr P is coming from when he suggests that, as the designer 
and manufacturer  of his motorhome, C was, on the face of it, in a very good position to give 
him an accurate  estimate of the cost of the repair work. But just because C may have been 
in this situation and I have  no reason to doubt what Mr P says about this point, that does not 
mean it therefore must have given him a fixed price for the repair from the beginning.  The 
opposite could be true; knowing  its own design and the likely nature of the repair work, it 
might have been wary of giving anything other than a general  estimate  before it actually 
started the work and saw what was what.  And that is what C indicates  happened here. C has 
suggested the price  it gave at the beginning was merely to let Mr P know what  the minimum 
price might be.
Mr P indicates that it was a known fault. That may be so. But again,  that does not persuade 
me that just because  the fault was a known one C agreed to stick to a fixed  price. That 
would put all the risk on C, and I find it unlikely that it wouldve taken that risk, in the 
circumstances. C more  than anyone else must  have been aware how the price  could 
escalate depending on what it had to do.
C suggests it kept Mr P informed and told him when  the price increased. Mr P says thats  not 
so. But if I am to accept  Mr Ps version of events, not only did C give him a set price,  it then 
went back on its word, said nothing to him about  this until out of the blue, when he came to 
pick up his motorhome,  C presented him with a bill for twice  the amount agreed. That would 
be quite a high risk approach to take. Mr P could have refused to pay or not had the means 
to pay in that scenario. Moreover, Mr P was an established repeat customer, who in the 
normal course of events might continue  using Cs services in the future.  Further,  both parties 
agree there was contact between them while C was doing the repairs. They just disagree  
about what was said. I find it unlikely, given how the cost of the work was increasing, that C 
did not take the opportunity to tell Mr P about this and get his consent  to carry on.
Mr P talks about hearsay. This service is not a court and is not bound  by the rules of 
evidence a court must follow. But I have no reason to doubt  that the employees of C who 
have provided  information  are speaking on behalf of C and giving us its side of the story.
Ive not been presented with any persuasive information to show that C did not do the work  it 
said it did, even if Mr P appears to think its not possible. Moreover, the work cost around 
Ref: DRN9921219421,000 Euros. If I were  to order Nationwide to refund about  half that, Mr P would benefit from 
having 21,000 Euros of work for half that price.  That would not be fair or reasonable.
It may be correct that it was Cs practice to give verbal estimates rather  than written 
contracts up front. That said, if this was a standard repair with a fixed  cost, I find it surprising 
that C did not have a standard  contract  to give to customers at the beginning of the work. It 
would certainly then have lessened the chances of C having to face a dispute like this.
Ive not been persuaded by the new information Mr P sent in after my provisional decision. I 
have come to the same  findings for the same  reasons as I set out in my provisional decision 
and in this final decision.
Mr P might want  to think about whether, on reflection,  he wants  to accept Nationwides  offer 
to pay for the damage to the water tanks. If he does then he will need to speak directly  to 
Nationwide to sort this out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9921219