K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that One Insurance Limited  (ONE)  acted unfairly when it refused a claim 
under her motor insurance policy and voided  the policy due to her not disclosing the correct 
amount of motoring convictions or endorsements  she had had in the past five years at 
renewal.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was minded to not uphold Miss Js complaint. I invited both parties to let me 
have anything in response they thought  was relevant.
Miss J disagreed with my provisional findings, in summary she said:
ONE  shouldve checked the DVLA portal  and seen  the conviction  when she changed 
her car in August 2017, making ONE just as at fault as she is
She hasnt done anything  dishonest  but is being  punished as she still has damage to 
her car that is yet to be fixed
The cost of insurance has increased  for her now due to her having to declare  a 
voidance
She never intentionally withheld  the extra points
ONE responded to say it accepted the decision  and had no further  comments  to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I must  tell Miss J that Ive reached the same conclusions  as set out in 
my provisional decision and for the same  reasons.  Although her comments havent altered 
my view of this complaint,  for completeness I have addressed them below.
There is no obligation on ONE to check the DVLA portal each time there is an amendment to 
a policy, rather it is the responsibility of Miss L to make sure that she provides the correct 
information at the outset  of the policy and again at any renewal.
While I understand that Miss J didnt intentionally  withhold  the points and this was a genuine 
mistake rather  than an act of dishonestly, my role here is only to decide if the ONE did 
something wrong and, if it did, should  it do something to put things right. As I have already 
explained in my provisional findings,  I dont think that is the case  here. I also understand the 
consequences of that mistake  are expensive for Miss J and may feel like a punishment,  but I 
cant say that these consequences are a result of any wrong  doing  by ONE. So it follows that 
I dont uphold Miss Js complaint in this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN98906122Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss J complains that One Insurance Limited  (ONE)  acted unfairly when  it refused a claim under her 
motor insurance  policy and voided the policy due to her not disclosing  the correct amount  of motoring  
convictions or endorsements she had had in the past five years at renewal.
 
background
Miss J first bought a motor  insurance policy from ONE in January 2016 through  a comparison  
website. She was asked the following question:
Have you had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties  disqualifications or 
bans in the last five years?
Ref: DRN98906123ONEs records show that the following  was disclosed  by Miss J:
1 July 2013 CU80  3 points 
ONE carried out validation checks on 19 January 2016  and found that Miss J also had the following 
points listed on the DVLA portal:
4 September 2012 SP30  3 points 
The policy was amended  to reflect this and the premium increased by £37.55.
At the time of the validation checks Miss J also had another three points  that should have been 
declared:
12 December 2015 SP30  3 points
The SP30 from 2015 had not yet been updated onto the DVLA portal and so didnt show on the 
validation check that ONE carried out in January 2017. As a result, it was unaware of those  points.  
The policy ran for the year without the 2015 points recorded on it.
In December 2016 ONE  wrote to Miss J to let her know her policy would automatically renew. The 
renewal documents  said that ONE had two motoring  convictions  held on file. Miss J didnt respond to 
the renewal notice and the policy renewed on 19 January  2017.  Miss J was sent her new policy 
documents electronically on 17 January 2017.
In October 2017 Miss J contacted ONE to register  a claim  as she had been involved in an accident. 
ONE carried out checks to validate the claim and became aware of the 2015 SP30. At this point,  it 
wrote to Miss J and declined the claim  and voided the policy from renewal. It said that had it known 
about the 2015 SP30,  it wouldnt have offered  cover  to Miss J. It said it would keep the premiums  paid 
by Miss J for six months in case of a third party claim being made  from the October accident.
Miss J was unhappy  with this and brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator thought that Miss Js 
complaint should be upheld. In summary  he said:
The notice of renewal contains the following:
"Duty of Disclosure
if your circumstances or any other material information has changed  during the last year you 
must advise us before  you renew your policy, if you do not, this may result in your insurance 
being invalidated, if you are in doubt about whether something is relevant, you should ask us. 
You must  give us the new information by phone or in writing.
Examples of material information which should be disclosed to us include:-
[...]
Any convictions for any driver (including pending or fixed penalty offences).
[...]" (emphasis added)
He didnt feel this statement was clear because of its length. Even so, he felt that essentially what  it 
did ask was whether there had been any changes in the last twelve months.  And, as there hadnt,  
Miss J couldnt have  misrepresented the facts about her motoring convictions.  So he thought  ONE  
had acted unfairly in rejecting the claim  and voiding the policy.
To put things right, he recommended that ONE remove the voidance,  consider  the claim  and pay 
compensation to Miss J. In turn ONE would be entitled to charge Miss J the premium for the policy 
year. 
Ref: DRN98906124ONE disagreed with this and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based  my 
provisional decision  on what I thinks most likely  to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues  have been raised, this provisional decision  only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially  relevant to this complaint.  However, Ive given careful  consideration  to all of 
the submissions  made before arriving  at my provisional  decision.  Having done so I have  to let Miss J 
know that I dont think ONE has acted unfairly when declining the claim and voiding her policy  from 
the renewal date, Ill explain  why.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  sets out that its the 
duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations to the insurer. It goes 
on to explain that a failure by the consumer  to confirm  or amend particulars previously  given can be a 
misrepresentation. 
As mentioned  above Miss J was sent renewal documents on 17 January 2017. I have seen screen  
shots from the online portal showing she accessed  the documents four times over the 17 and 18 
January 2017, so Im satisfied she saw them. These said:
Thank you for renewing your car insurance  through One Call. Please take a moment to read 
through your documents carefully  to ensure  that all the details are correct and that your 
demands and needs have been met
And:
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The attached proposal form/statement of fact is a record of the answers  you gave to the 
questions we asked during  our recorded  conversation,  or entered by you on our 
website/comparison site, and forms part of the contract of motor insurance between  you and 
ONE Insurance Limited. It is therefore  very important that you check  that the information  is 
accurate and complete  to the best of your knowledge and belief.
If you are satisfied that, to the best of your knowledge and belief, the information contained on 
the enclosed form is accurate and complete then you do not need to sign the form and return  
it to us. Simply retain this statement in a safe place  along with your policy and Certificate  of 
Insurance.
However, in the event  that any of the information shown  is incorrect,  or you have failed to 
provide accurate and complete answers  to any of the questions,  you must inform  One Call 
Insurance immediately. Failure to do so could have serious consequences including claims  
being rejected or not fully paid, or your policy  cover being cancelled or declared  void (treating 
your policy as if it never existed).
Im satisfied the renewal  documentation  made clear to Miss J that she had to check  the information in 
the statement of fact was correct. It also told her what the possible  consequences were  if she didnt 
do this.
Miss J explained that she felt she had disclosed the 2015 SP30 when  she originally  bought the policy 
in 2016. She has sent us a picture showing the SP30 recorded  on the comparison website she used 
Ref: DRN98906125to purchase the policy, but the picture is from 2017, after ONE had voided  her policy, so Im not 
persuaded that this shows she did declare it at the time of buying the policy in 2016.
ONE has shown that it wouldnt have  insured  Miss J had it known about all of her motoring 
convictions or endorsements. This means the non-disclosure by Miss J is a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. As a result  of this ONE is entitled  to take action because  of the 
misrepresentation. 
I think  that the misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate  or reckless; as it appears Miss J made  
a mistake that with more care she wouldnt have made. Under CIDRA, the insurer is entitled to do 
what it would have done had she provided  the correct information.  That might mean  the insurer 
wouldnt have provided cover at all, or it would  have  done  so but on different terms. 
Under CIDRA, ONE is allowed to void the policy  providing  it returns  the premiums paid. I understand 
a refund of the premiums  paid by Miss J has already been returned to her. 
Overall, having considered  the matter  carefully, I dont find that ONE  has treated Miss J unreasonably 
or unfairly.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not currently intend  to uphold this complaint.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9890612