K822xcomplaint
Mrs E complains about the way her legal expenses  claim has been handled by Legal & 
General Insurance Limited (L&G) and their decision to withdraw  funding. 
Where I refer to L&G, this includes its agents and claims handlers
background 
Mrs E made a claim on her policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute with her neighbour 
over access  to her property. Her claim was accepted and L&G instructed solicitors to act on 
her behalf.  
After about a year, the solicitors informed L&G that the neighbours had made what  appeared 
to be a reasonable offer, but Mrs E wasnt happy to accept it. Mrs E complained about the 
solicitors advice. And as a result, the solicitors said they werent  prepared  to continue acting 
for her as the client/solicitor  relationship had broken down. 
L&G told Mrs E its a condition of cover that she must accept a reasonable offer and as she 
hadnt accepted the offer, it wasnt prepared to pay any further costs.  
Mrs E raised a complaint for the following reasons: 
1.The solicitors advice  differed from a legal opinion  she had sought herself before 
making a claim. And as there  are conflicting  solicitors opinions on the claim, she 
believes L&G should fund a barristers opinion.
2.She has concerns  over the solicitors  experience  in property law and believes L&G 
failed to ensure  that she has suitably qualified representation for her claim.
3.L&G withdrew funding  despite the claim having reasonable prospects of success. 
4.The solicitor had not confirmed that the offer from the neighbours was a reasonable 
one; they said it was worth exploring.
5.L&G gave misleading information about whether  it had withdrawn funding from the 
claim.
6.L&G failed to respond to numerous  emails, including a request for details of its 
arbitration procedure.
7.When the solicitor advised Mrs E that they were no longer prepared to act for her, 
they said another solicitor would be appointed under the policy, but L&G refused to 
appoint anyone. Mrs E feels L&G have reneged on the solicitors promise.
8.No legal advice  has been provided by the policy. 
9.L&G misrepresented  Mrs Es complaint as it said she was unhappy funding was 
being withdrawn  if she did not accept a reasonable offer but she hadnt refused to 
accept the offer,  she had simply asked questions. 
10.She didnt receive the £100 compensation awarded in L&Gs final response to her 
complaint which related  to delays and its failure  to respond to her emails.
To put things right, Mrs E said she wanted  L&G to:
1.pay substantial compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her; 
2.instruct solicitors to obtain a barristers  opinion on the claim; 
3.allow her to review the instructions to the barrister, so she could correct any mistakes  
or omissions; and
4.provide details of its arbitration procedure. 
Ref: DRN94383632Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He said the legal advice from the solicitor was 
that the offer from the neighbours  should be explored and would be subject to negotiations. 
And as Mrs E had said, she hadnt refused to accept it  but had asked for further 
clarification. He didnt  think L&G could fairly withdraw funding  because he wasnt satisfied 
the offer was considered  reasonable  or that Mrs E had refused it. So he asked L&G to 
appoint another  solicitor  to look into the claim further. 
The investigator recommended  compensation of £200 for the delay in appointing another 
solicitor. And he said if L&G had not already  done  so, it should pay the £100  compensation 
already offered. 
L&G accepted our investigators  recommendations, but Mrs E didnt. She said the 
compensation offered was still too low and the investigator hadnt addressed many of her 
complaint points  in particular, her request for a barristers opinion. 
Our investigator said the solicitor was satisfied the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success and Mrs Es privately funded advice agreed  with this. So there wasnt  any need for 
a barristers opinion.  But Mrs E said much of the solicitors advice about the claim itself and 
how it should be settled  was contradictory to the advice shed received. 
L&G agreed to obtain a barristers opinion. But Mrs E said many  of her complaint points 
were outstanding and she didnt accept  the investigators recommendations. So the case 
was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019. In the provisional decision I said:
I dont intend to address the complaint points that have been resolved by our investigator.  
L&G has accepted  there were  insufficient grounds to withdraw  funding  because the offer 
hadnt been confirmed as reasonable. For this reason, it has appointed another solicitor.  And 
due to the differing legal opinions, it has now agreed  to obtain a barristers advice. I think  
thats fair and I dont  need to add anything to this. 
Ive considered all the remaining complaint points. And whilst I have taken  account  of 
everything Mrs E has said when Ive thought about the overall handling  of the claim, I dont 
intend to address every point individually. I have  focused on the key points and Ill set out my 
findings below on these. 
The solicitors experience
Mrs E says L&G failed to ensure she had suitably qualified representation for her claim.  This 
is because the solicitor refused to provide her with details  of how long he had worked in 
property law, how many cases he had fought  in court and how many of those he had won. 
Our usual  approach is that its reasonable for an insurer  to instruct a solicitor from its own 
panel provided the solicitor is suitably qualified. So Id want to be satisfied that the solicitor 
has knowledge in the relevant area of law that the claim relates to. 
The dispute  concerns Mrs Es property. And her claim was passed to a Director of the firm of 
solicitors appointed, who is the head of the property claims department. So I think L&G has 
instructed a suitably  qualified  solicitor.  I wouldnt expect the solicitor to provide  the level of 
detail Mrs E has requested.
Ref: DRN94383633Legal advice
Mrs E says L&G have failed to ensure she is provided with legal advice on her claim. And as 
she is entitled to this as part of her cover, she feels L&G hasnt acted in accordance with the 
terms of the policy. 
Once a claim is accepted  and solicitors are instructed,  those solicitors  can provide legal 
advice relating to that dispute.  Theres nothing to stop Mrs E from calling the helpline  should  
she need to. But once solicitors are appointed  to act for her, they are responsible for the 
advice they give,  and for day to day handling  of her case. This is outside L&Gs 
responsibilities. Mrs E has set out various concerns  about the advice provided by the 
solicitors. If she is unhappy with their advice,  she needs to raise  this with them directly, and 
then to the Legal Ombudsman if she remains dissatisfied. 
For any issue other than this claim Mrs E benefits from access to a legal helpline as part of 
her cover. The helpline  can provide generic legal advice and can be accessed  at any time by 
Mrs E on the number provided in her policy documents. 
On this basis Im satisfied Mrs E has had access to legal advice. Its not for me to review  the 
legal advice given  to her; my role is simply  to consider how L&G has dealt with her insurance  
claim.
Failure to respond to emails
Mrs E says she emailed L&G multiple times in October and November 2018, but it failed to 
respond. In its final response to her complaint,  L&G acknowledged there was a breakdown  
in communication  during this time and offered £100  compensation  for this. 
Its not clear why Mrs Es emails went unanswered and its not the level of service  Id expect 
from a business.  So Ive thought about  whether £100 goes far enough to put things right for 
Mrs E and Im satisfied it does. Ill explain why.
Compensation is not a means to fine or punish a business for doing something wrong. Its to 
acknowledge any trouble or upset that Mrs E has been caused as a result of its actions.  
I dont doubt that this would have been  frustrating  for Mrs E and has caused delay in her 
being able to proceed with a complaint to our service. But it was not a long period of time 
and I think £100  is a fair offer to reflect this, taking account the length of the delay. So Im not 
asking L&G to pay any more. 
Arbitration procedure
The policy terms say: Disputes: in event of dispute arising out of this policy, you may refer 
the matter to arbitration. Further  details  can be provided upon  request.  
Mrs E says she requested  details  of the arbitration  procedure but L&G failed to provide  this. 
As the policy is clear  that details will be provided if requested, L&G should provide this 
information to her. If the issues she wishes to raise  have been dealt with in this complaint, it 
may not be necessary for L&G to proceed with arbitration. But it would be for L&G to 
consider this.
Ref: DRN94383634Compensation 
Mrs E says there should  be a substantial payment to reflect  the fact that she and her 
husband have  not had full access to their property for two years, due to Legal & Generals 
decision to withdraw  legal  assistance  and subsequent decision to ignore emails.
Our investigator recommended compensation of £200 for the delay  in appointing an 
alternative solicitor, in addition to the payment of £100 previously offered. I appreciate that 
this matter has been going on for a long time.  But even if there had been no delays, it would  
have taken some time to pursue.  And although the claim may have a reasonable chance  of 
success, theres no guarantee it will succeed. So I cant say what  the outcome will be or that 
Mrs E has been denied access solely due to the way L&G has handled the claim. What  I can 
say is that there has been some additional  delay, which has no doubt made the situation 
more upsetting. Looking at the impact of the decision not to appoint another  solicitor and the 
delays this led to, in my judgment a payment of £400 would be a fairer  reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. So I think L&G should make a further payment of this 
amount.
L&G has confirmed that it sent Mrs E a cheque for £100 on 12 September 2019. If Mrs E did 
not receive this, she should let our service  know. We could then ask L&G to cancel the 
cheque and reissue the payment. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to partly uphold the complaint. Legal & General  
Insurance Limited should:
1.provide Mrs E with details of its arbitration procedure;
2.pay £400 compensation for the failure  to instruct  an alternative solicitor; and
3.cancel the cheque from September 2019 and reissue a payment of £100, if Mrs E 
advises that she did not receive the cheque.
developments
L&G accepted my provisional decision  and had no further comments to add. Mrs E has 
made a number of further comments. Ive summarised some of the key points as follows:
The provisional decision says L&G has appointed  another solicitor to act but this isnt 
correct as the solicitors terms mean she would have to pay some of the costs, so 
they havent been appointed under the policy  terms.
Its also incorrect to say L&G has agreed to obtain a barristers advice as the 
solicitors terms  require her to pay for this as well.
When she raised concerns about the costs  arrangements with our service  she was 
told these were  new issues, which couldnt  be dealt with as part of this complaint. But 
the provisional decision makes findings  about them.
The provisional decision says L&G isnt responsible for solicitors advice, but the 
issue is not about the solicitors advice  its about L&Gs responsibility to ensure 
their solicitors  provide  the cover promised  in the policy  terms. As the provisional  
decision shows this is inseparable from the original  complaint,  she would like the final 
decision to review  this in light of L&Gs failure  to provide the insurance cover it said 
was provided.
Ref: DRN94383635my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
Mrs E says it isnt correct to say L&G has appointed  another solicitor  to act as the solicitors  
terms mean she would  have to pay costs  herself, so they havent been  appointed under the 
policy terms. 
The key point is that L&G agreed  to appoint solicitors. The solicitors would not be acting for 
L&G  it underwrites the costs but the solicitors would be acting for Mrs E and she would  be 
their client.  So there  will be an agreement between  the solicitors  and their client. That 
doesnt mean L&G isnt providing the cover  shes entitled to. 
In broad terms, this complaint was about  delays handling the claim and the circumstances  
surrounding the withdrawal of cover  following the settlement offer.  I agree  there  were  some 
delays. And Ive awarded compensation. Our investigator said L&G should not have 
withdrawn cover. He asked L&G to appoint another solicitor to look into the claim further. 
L&G agreed to do this. And it has agreed  to obtain a barristers  opinion. I think thats  fair and 
it means those issues have been  put right. Mrs E says L&G hasnt agreed to obtain a 
barristers advice as the solicitors terms require her to pay for this as well, but L&G has 
confirmed it will cover the barristers costs. 
Mrs E has raised further issues  about  the precise arrangements  for instructing the solicitors 
and getting counsels  advice. These  issues were  not part of this complaint and I havent 
considered these details. If she wishes to raise  further complaints with L&G about recent 
events she may do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Legal & General Insurance 
Limited to:
1.provide Mrs E with details of its arbitration procedure;
2.pay £400 compensation for the failure  to instruct  an alternative solicitor; and
3.cancel the cheque from September 2019 and reissue a payment of £100, if Mrs E 
advises that she did not receive the cheque.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9438363