K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr P and Halifax are in agreement that this sale took place in a meeting. Mr P says that 
Halifax didnt make a recommendation to take PPI. But Ive considered that Halifax  did make 
a recommendation  to take PPI as this places more responsibility on Halifax. I say this 
because, it means  not only did Halifax need to give Mr P good enough information about the 
PPI, but they also had to take reasonable steps to check that the policy was right for Mr P. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen copies of some of the paperwork completed at the time 
of sale, including  Mr Ps credit card application.  This application form is not fully 
legible in parts, but the part of the form that relates  to PPI is relatively clear. 
In the section for PPI theres an option to indicate  if PPI is required. An X has been  
typed in the box to take PPI. As this was a meeting  and some  of Mr Ps other  
personal details  have also been entered on the form,  I think that its more likely than 
not that a discussion took place about PPI and the X was then added  to reflect what 
Mr P wanted. 
I think that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what hes said about his existing 
means of making  his repayments. 
But I still think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable  and the policy was right for 
Mr P because:
Ref: DRN91861562The PPI policy could  have paid out for up to 12 months. After six months Mr Ps sick 
pay would have  decreased to half pay. Having this policy  would also have allowed  
Mr P the option of not needing  to rely on his sick pay to cover his credit card 
repayments and hed also have the option  of using  his sick pay to help pay for other  
living expenses that he may have had. 
The PPI policy would  have paid out in addition to Mr Ps redundancy entitlement. 
This again would  have  allowed  Mr P the option of using his redundancy pay to help 
pay for other living expenses he may have had.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  
doesnt need to refund everything Mr P paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will make  arrangements to pay Mr P now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9186156