K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about charges Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  asked him to 
pay at the end of two hire purchase agreements. 
background
Mr H and his wife acquired two cars under hire purchase agreements. On 18 September 
2017 Mr H asked to end the agreements. Mr H did not hear anything  and so he chased the 
business on 26 September 2017. The cars were returned to the same dealership from where  
Mr H collected two further vehicles on new finance agreements.
The vehicles were not collected from the dealership  until 8 November  2017.  After their 
collection, Mr H was invoiced for damage  and a missing item, in addition to an excess  
mileage charge on one of the cars.  Volkswagen  says there  are scratches  to the 
bodywork on one of the cars,  and a missing tyre inflation kit on the second car. 
Mr H complained to Volkswagen about  the charges he had been  asked to pay. Mr H 
says the tyre inflation kit was not missing and there  was no damage to the car when  he 
returned it. Mr H thinks the damage was caused  when the car was in the dealership after 
he had returned  it. Volkswagen agreed  to reduce  the excess mileage charge by the 
delivery mileage.  Volkswagen would not waive the charge for the missing tyre inflation  kit 
for one of the cars.  It would not waive the damage  charge. 
The outstanding charge  on one of the cars is £1,623.89  and £157.68 on the second  car.
Mr H brought a complaint for us to consider. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He noted that 
Mr H no longer disputed the excess mileage charge. The investigator noted that cars are 
usually parked in the compound until they are collected. Mr H has been charged,  £237.60 
for the missing tyre inflation kit. The investigator considered that Mr H was responsible  for 
the missing kit until the car was collected. The investigator noted  that Volkswagen had 
reduced the sums it asked Mr H to pay for delays in the car being collected. All charges 
were reduced so Mr H was asked to pay £1,400 plus VAT. The investigator considered  
this was reasonable. 
The investigator noted Mr H was asked to pay £322.56 for damage to the second vehicle. 
The damage related  to scratches  on the bonnet and body work of the vehicle. Volkswagen 
agreed to reduce this sum to £157.68  as some of the damage was due to wear and tear. 
The investigator considered that some of the damage is in excess of what is deemed to be 
fair wear and tear  so the business  is entitled to charge Mr H for the damage.
Volkswagen has agreed to reduce the charge for damage to £130  as there  was a delay in 
the car being  collected from the dealership. The investigator considered  this sum was fair. 
The investigator was not persuaded the damage was caused when the car was parked at 
the dealership.  As such, the business  was entitled to charge Mr H for the scratches. 
The investigator noted that although  there  was a delay in the car being collected, Mr H 
would have been asked to pay £322.56  for damage if the car had been collected on time. 
Ref: DRN97567552Mr H is not happy to accept the investigators  view.  He says, in summary, the terms and 
conditions say he has three days to fix any noted  issues.  Mr H was not given this chance.  
If he had, Mr H could  have looked for the kit or supplied another one. Volkswagen  is 
charging him £201.04 for the missing item. Mr H could have bought one for £121.04. He 
could have fixed  the scratches. Mr H says Volkswagen did not follow the terms of the 
finance agreement  so he should not have to pay for the damage or the missing  kit. 
The investigator replied to say that the terms of the agreement say that Mr H is 
responsible for damage in excess of wear and tear. Volkswagen  reduced the charges  it 
had asked Mr H to pay for the delay in collecting the cars. The investigator considers  the 
damage to one of the cars is in excess of what is fair wear  and tear. The investigator 
noted that inspection and collection are usually on different dates. Mr H had arranged  to 
hand back the cars to the dealership. The investigator considered it was not unreasonable  
for the company collecting the cars to accept they were ready for collection.  The 
investigator noted that Mr H was not present when the cars were inspected. He 
considered however that Mr H would have had to pay more to fix the damage as he would 
have received no deductions  to the charges. 
Mr H replied  to say he is being required  to pay more than the charges  he would have to 
have paid if Volkswagen had followed the terms of the finance agreement.  This is even 
with the discount that has been  offered. Mr H says the damage  could have been  caused 
while the cars were  waiting to be collected from the dealership. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. Where there is a dispute about what  
happened, as is the case here, I have based  my decision on the balance  of probabilities. In 
other words, on what I consider is most  likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
We are an informal dispute resolution  service.  Its not my role to decide  cases by applying  
the law. Only a court  can do that. I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, in all 
the circumstances of this particular complaint, taking  account of (among other things)  the 
relevant law.
I acknowledge Mr H feels  strongly  that he returned his cars in good condition at the end of 
his finance agreement, and that all the kit was present. And he doesnt  think he should have 
to pay for the cost of repairing damage  and missing  kit Volkswagen  has identified.  Mr H says 
Volkswagen did not give him a chance  to fix these issues before it charged him. As a result,  
he has to pay more  than if he had been able to rectify the problems himself. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement. These say that the 
car needs  to be kept in a condition which is commensurate with its age and mileage.  They 
also say that Mr H can be charged  for any damage  to the car which goes beyond fair wear 
and tear.
Ive looked at the BVRLA  guide  in place  at the time the car was returned which  is what  
Volkswagen use to determine  fair wear and tear. Ive also looked at the independent 
inspection report which set out the damage  to the car and missing kit.
The BVRLA guide  says it is recommended that the customer  and business  inspect the car 
together to agree on any damage. If an inspection cannot take place, the customer will be 
Ref: DRN97567553informed of the damage. There  was a delay in the cars being collected  from the dealership. 
They were returned in late September 2018 but were not collected until early November 
2018. Mr H says the scratches could have been caused when the car was at the dealership.  
The dealership says cars are usually  parked and not moved while  they are waiting to be 
collected. I have  no reason  to doubt  this practice  of the dealership.  
Volkswagen has asked Mr H to pay £130 to fix the scratches.  Mr H has not provided 
information to show he could have the scratches repaired for a lower sum. I find this charge 
is reasonable for the scratches identified in the inspection reports. Im satisfied  that the 
inspection was carried out in accordance  with BVRLA guidelines and that the refurbishment  
charges have been calculated on that basis. The terms and conditions of the hire purchase  
agreement say that Mr H is liable to pay for damage which  exceeds fair wear and tear, so I 
cant find that Volkswagen  has done anything wrong  in applying the charges
Volkswagen initially asked Mr H to pay £237.60 for the missing  kit item.  It has reduced  this 
sum to £201.04 given  the delays in collecting the cars. Mr H says he could have bought one 
for £121.04. I appreciate Mr H had no opportunity to supply the missing item before the car 
was inspected. But I think the main  point is that the contract clearly states Mr H needed to 
return the car in good  condition with all parts present. So he would have been aware of that 
before he gave  the vehicle back  and could  have made arrangements  to check all the parts  
were present. Given the kit wasnt there when the car was inspected, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Volkswagen to charge for it. The BVRLA guidance recommends that a 
customer carries  out a check on a car before it is returned. This is to avoid charges after the 
car has been returned for damage which is outside wear and tear. Mr H could have done this 
to avoid any post return charges. 
I have not been able to find a term that says Mr H should  have been given three days  to 
repair the car in the finance agreements  or in the BVLRA guidelines.
I note Mr H says that Volkswagen say in their letter to him dated  28 September  2017 that 
Inspection and collection are arranged on separate  dates to allow you the opportunity  to 
carry out any remedial work. I do not find that this became a term of the finance 
agreements. It was discussing the arrangements for return of the car. I appreciate Mr H was 
not given a chance to fix the car before he was charged for the damage.  As I have noted  
however, Mr H could have carried out a pre return  inspection as recommended  by the 
BVLRA guidelines to make sure any damage was remedied pre return. The finance  
agreement said that Mr H was responsible for any damage on the return  of the car. As such, 
I find it is fair Mr H pays for the damage and missing  item.
The guidelines say that Mr H should be advised of the damage  to the car within four weeks  
of returning it. This did not happen. However,  Volkswagen has reduced  the sum it asked Mr 
H to pay to reflect this fact. 
Im persuaded Volkswagen have acted  fairly  and reasonably in offering to reduce  the overall 
charges and as the evidence Ive seen supports the refurbishment costs Im not going  to ask 
Volkswagen to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN97567554Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9756755