K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Go Car Credit  Limited (GCC) has applied an unfair charge upon the 
termination of his hire purchase agreement. He wants the additional charge waived.
background
Mr O tells us that he took out a hire purchase agreement in April 2018. The agreement was 
scheduled to last for three years. In January 2019,  he says the vehicle was stolen  and this 
fact was reported to the police, his insurance  company and GCC. He says that following the 
theft his insurers  considered the vehicle a write  off and agreed  to pay £6,500 to settle his 
claim.
Mr O says that GCC first provided  him with a settlement figure  in relation to the finance 
agreement of £7,282.94. This was due to be paid by 1 February 2019. He said this wouldve 
meant that he was due to pay £782.94 as his insurers were going  to pay GCC directly. But 
he said the insurance payment was delayed and so hadnt been  paid by 1 February. Mr O 
says a second settlement figure  was provided  but the figure he needed to pay had risen to 
£979.24. He says that when he rang GCC on 4 March  he was told the settlement figure had 
by then risen to over £3,000.
GCC told us it had provided Mr O with settlement figures by letters it sent on 4 January 2019  
and 3 February 2019. It said the settlement figures were  only valid for 28 days. And as Mr O 
hadnt paid by the March  expiry date, the full balance remaining on the agreement became 
payable. It said the second settlement figure had been provided as a gesture of goodwill - as 
the insurance company payment hadnt  been  made.  But it said this figure  was only valid until 
3 March. When Mr O had failed to make the settlement by that date it said the full balance 
on the agreement  became  payable.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 November 2019.  In that provisional 
decision I said I intended to uphold this complaint. I indicated that I thought  the latest 
settlement figure was incorrect  as it had been calculated  using  the wrong section of the 
terms and conditions.
Since then both parties have replied and I thank  them for their comments.  
GCC replied saying it accepted my provisional  decision subject to Mr O paying  £782.94  
within 28 days of the final decision on this complaint being issued. Mr O replied saying he 
agreed with the decision  and would  pay this sum within the agreed time frame.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  Ill largely repeat it in my final 
decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr O is so concerned that the settlement figure he was originally  
quoted was increased by such a large amount.  It was bad enough  with the vehicle being  
stolen but the sudden  demand for a further  amount in excess of £2,000  served only to 
increase his level of distress.
Ref: DRN90693512Theres no basic dispute as to the underlying facts.  Mr Os vehicle was stolen and so it 
became necessary to terminate the agreement.  Because  the agreement hadnt  run its full 
course, Mr O was entitled to a rebate  of interest. That relates to the interest element of the 
payments he wouldve  been required to make  had the agreement  run its full length.
GCC provided an initial settlement figure of £7,282.94 which  was payable  by 1 February.  
This meant that - after the insurers had paid £6,500 direct to GCC - Mr O was required to 
pay £782.94. Im not sure why a delay occurred  on the insurance pay out but it meant that 
the agreement  hadnt been  settled by 1 February. So GCC issued  amended settlement 
figures which had been  recalculated taking into account the monthly payments that wouldve 
been due if the agreement had continued and also the reduced rebate.
In my provisional decision I set out in detail why I thought the latest  revised settlement figure 
of £3,406.32 was incorrect. As both parties have accepted my provisional  decision I neednt 
repeat my full reasoning  again. But, in summary, I said that it appeared this settlement figure 
had been calculated as if the finance agreement was being voluntarily terminated. And I 
considered it shouldve been  calculated  using different provisions within  the agreement 
relating to theft and total loss. I found  that - as the vehicle had been declared a write off and 
the contract  was deemed to be cancelled before February 2019 - it followed that Mr O 
shouldnt be liable for any further  payments beyond those  hed already incurred. So when 
GCC issued a settlement  figure in January 2019 of £7,282.94 that was the final sum due. As 
the insurance pay out came to £6,500 that left Mr O being  required to pay £782.94.
As the parties have now agreed  to the terms of a settlement, I only need to formally confirm  
that Im upholding the complaint. And that the terms of the settlement form the basis  of my 
final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
In order to settle this complaint I now require Go Car Credit  Limited  to take the following 
action:
Subject to Mr O accepting this final decision and making the stipulated payment within 28 
days of the issue  of this decision:
1.To accept the sum of £782.94 from Mr O in full and final settlement of the hire 
purchase agreement;  
2.Remove any adverse  credit file entries  which resulted from this agreement between  1 
February 2019 and the date 28 days following the issue  of any final decision in this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9069351