K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her claim for legal  
expenses insurance.  
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
In July 2018 Ms M resigned from her job. She made a claim to UKI wanting to take legal 
action against  her former employer. The dispute  centred  on her being  underpaid as she says 
her former employer had incorrectly assessed her annual leave entitlement.  
UKI asked  one of their panel solicitors D to look at the claim. D concluded that the legal 
action Ms M wanted to take didnt have  reasonable prospects of success. And as this is a 
requirement of the policy, UKI said there was no cover available.  They  pointed  out that if 
Ms M provided  a positive barristers opinion on the prospects of her case; they would 
reconsider the claim and reimburse her the cost of obtaining the opinion. 
Ms M complained. She wasnt happy  at her claim being declined, she also felt shed been  
denied freedom of choice in relation to a solicitor  and that shed received poor service.  UKI 
acknowledged there was a phone  call where they could have given  better service, and 
offered £30 compensation for this. But on the other aspects of her complaint they maintained 
theyd acted correctly.  
Ms M referred  her complaint  to our service. One of our investigators didnt think  it should be 
upheld. He concluded UKI had acted fairly in relation to the claim and that the £30 
compensation already offered was fair for the poor service. As she still disagrees,  Ms M has 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint and I 
wont be asking UKI to take any action. Let me explain why. 
Ms Ms policy says that cover is available as long as we and the appointed  representative  
agree that your claim  has reasonable prospects of success.  Reasonable prospects of 
success is further defined  as there being a greater than 50% chance of success. 
The requirement for there to be reasonable prospects of success is common to nearly all 
legal expenses insurance policies. I dont think this is inherently unfair. Litigation  can be 
expensive, a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue when advised against doing  
so, so I dont think an insurer should  have to either.
As our investigator pointed out, our service wont make an assessment of the underlying 
legal dispute.  We look at whether the insurer, UKI in this case, have acted within  the policy 
terms and fairly. UKI themselves arent legal experts  so I think its reasonable that they rely 
on suitably qualified legal opinion when making decisions about a claim.
Ref: DRN91396982Ms Ms claim was passed to D and was assessed by a solicitor. The solicitor concluded that 
there werent  reasonable prospects of success.  I understand that Ms M disagrees with that 
assessment, but that doesnt persuade me that its unfair for UKI to rely upon it. I dont think 
the legal  opinion is obviously wrong and in the absence of a conflicting opinion,  I think  the 
decision to decline to offer any further  cover is fair. 
UKI say that if Ms M provides a barristers  opinion that is supportive of her case,  they will 
reconsider the claim and reimburse her the costs of the opinion (subject to them agreeing 
the cost in advance). I think this is fair.
I understand that Ms M feels her choice of solicitor  was restricted by UKI. But her policy only 
covers her for one of UKIs  panel  solicitors until the point where proceedings need to be 
started. So I dont  think UKI were wrong in only offering a panel  solicitor at that stage. There 
are other circumstances where  Id expect an insurer to offer freedom of choice sooner. 
These include where there is a conflict of interest or if a case  was unusually complex. But 
Ive not seen evidence to support that either  of those circumstances  apply here.
Before starting an employment  tribunal there is a requirement to use the ACAS early 
conciliation process.  Ms M is unhappy  that UKI didnt explain she could complete the ACAS  
process and then later elect  to choose her own solicitor. Ive thought carefully about this 
point. UKI say they did discuss this as an option  during a call with Ms M. But while  Ms M 
disputes this, even if they hadnt explained  this to her I dont think  this would have prejudiced 
her position.
Had her claim  reached the point  where  proceedings needed to be started, allowing her 
freedom of choice,  the requirement about  prospects of success  would still be applicable. 
Cover wouldnt be provided until this condition was met. So taking  all of this into 
consideration, I dont  think Ms M has been treated unfairly. 
Ms M also feels  she was provided with insufficient  support  during  the ACAS process. But 
again, until the policy conditions are met, cover isnt in place. I wouldnt expect UKI to fund 
legal assistance  ahead  of their acceptance of the claim.
UKI have  offered £30 compensation for the impact  of a phone call with one of their advisors 
that didnt go well and for Ms M having  to chase them for a call back.  Ive listened to that call 
and I dont think the amount of compensation offered  needs  to be increased. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9139698