K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt give him enough notice 
before the fixed interest rate on his mortgage  ended.  As a result,  he didnt have enough time 
left on his mortgage term to take a new fixed rate, and his monthly mortgage payments more 
than doubled.
background
Mr B took out his mortgage with Halifax in 2009.  It was paid on an interest-only basis with 
repayment of the capital  due at the end of the term in December 2020.
The mortgage was initially on an interest  rate linked to Bank of England base rate. Mr B then 
took a two-year  fixed  rate in 2014  and another in 2016. The 2016 fixed rate of 2.09% ended 
on 31 October 2018. The interest rate then switched to Halifaxs variable rate, which  at the 
time was 4.24%.  
Mr B says he expected  to receive a letter from Halifax well in advance  of the fixed rate 
ending in 2018, reminding him of the end date and setting out his options, as he had done in 
the past. This time,  though, he says he got less than a months notice. He got in touch with 
Halifax but had to wait for an appointment  and was then told he wasnt  eligible for a new 
fixed rate because he only had just over two years left to run on the mortgage term.
Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong  and it had given Mr B enough notice of his fixed 
rate ending. It also said Mr B could  have a mortgage review  and it would look at extending 
the mortgage term and then changing  the rate.
Our investigator said Halifax had done  enough  to tell Mr B about the rate change  in 2018,  
and when Mr B asked for a new fixed rate Halifax didnt have one he was eligible for. The 
investigator thought  Halifax  had been  reasonable in referring Mr B to one of its mortgage 
advisers in order to review his circumstances and consider extending  the mortgage term. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
He still considered he should have  received  more  notice of the rate change and he should  
receive a refund of the higher mortgage  payments he had to make. He also said he would 
discuss the matter with Halifax again as his circumstances  had since  changed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The variable  rate Mr Bs mortgage went onto in November 2018 was more  than double the 
interest rate Mr B had been paying,  so I can understand why he was upset  and 
disappointed. However, the change  from the fixed rate to a variable rate wasnt  a change to 
the mortgage terms. It was part of those terms, as set out in the August 2016 mortgage offer. 
That offer was clear  that the fixed interest  rate would end on 31 October 2018, and Halifaxs  
variable rate would then apply. 
Halifax did have to give Mr B reasonable notice of the change of rate and the impact the 
change would have  on his monthly payments. Im satisfied  that it did that by writing to him in 
Ref: DRN92449902early October 2018. There was no obligation  on Halifax   either under relevant mortgage 
rules or the mortgage terms  to have given him more  notice  of the change than it did.
Mr B had just over two years left on his mortgage  term when  he asked Halifax for a new rate. 
Fixed rates dont generally run for an exact round number of years, such  as two or five 
years, from the date they are taken out. What  borrowers are eligible for will depend on what  
a particular lender  has available  at a given time. 
I have looked  at the fixed rates Halifax had available in October  2018 and for which  Mr B 
may have  been  eligible but for the approaching term end. All of those  fixed-rate deals ran 
beyond his term end date. So I dont find that the time it took for Mr B to get an appointment 
with Halifax to discuss his mortgage  caused  him to lose out.
Halifaxs policy is that borrowers arent eligible  for new fixed interest-rate  deals  if their 
mortgage term will end before a new fixed rate ends. That is neither unreasonable  nor 
unusual. This is because the borrower  is expected  under  the terms of the mortgage  
contract  to repay  the mortgage by the term end date. If full repayment  were to be made 
while the mortgage is on a fixed rate, an early repayment charge (ERC)  would be added to 
the outstanding balance.  
In all the circumstances, I dont find grounds on which I might fairly require Halifax to 
backdate a fixed rate for Mr B. I have also noted  that Halifax  didnt have any special rates 
available to borrowers in Mr Bs situation.
Mr B has said the substantially higher monthly payments he had to make following the 
interest rate increase  in 2018 made things very difficult for him. I have looked  carefully  at 
what Halifax told him about his options,  and I note that there was some  discussion about a 
term extension.  Halifaxs  records  say it needed to establish Mr Bs situation  before deciding 
whether to extend the term and look at a new rate.
I think that was reasonable. I would expect Halifax to want  to understand Mr Bs particular 
circumstances before extending the mortgage term,  in order  to consider whether doing so 
would be in his best interests.  Its key considerations would include how Mr B ultimately 
planned to repay the mortgage and whether  he could afford the mortgage payments over a 
longer term. 
If Mr B intended to sell the property  within the remaining term, as Halifaxs  records suggest,  
then I can see why Halifax wouldnt have  agreed to a new fixed  rate  doing so would, as I 
said earlier, have triggered the application of an ERC on the sale of the property and 
repayment of the mortgage. I can see Halifax and Mr B have discussed Mr Bs plans to 
some extent. I would  encourage them to continue doing so if no agreement has yet been 
reached or if Mr Bs circumstances have changed. Mr B could  of course also have 
approached other lenders while he was not tied into a particular rate with Halifax.
Finally, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued 
guidance to mortgage lenders. The most recent  guidance took effect from 20 November 
2020, and sets out the regulators expectations about forbearance. Halifax should  take this, 
as well as any future  guidance as the situation  evolves, into account in its dealings  with Mr B 
and treat him fairly.
Ref: DRN92449903my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2021.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9244990