K821x#15Complaint
Miss S complains  that Advantage Finance Ltd provided her with a hire purchase agreement  
which she couldnt afford and she doesnt  believe appropriate  checks  were carried out. So, 
shed like the interest and fees she paid refunded.
Background
Miss S says that in November 2012  she applied to Advantage, via a broker, for car finance  
because her credit rating was poor and she couldnt  get finance  anywhere else. She needed 
finance to replace her car which no longer worked. The finance agreement was for around 
£3,000, repayable over 48 months. The monthly repayments were  £123 per month, with a 
final payment of £273. The total repayable over the term of the loan was just over £6,000.
Advantage says it understood  Miss C to have been  in full time employment and with her 
current employer for two years and five months. It says it reviewed  two of her recent payslips 
which showed no deductions other  than tax and national insurance.  Affordability was also 
assessed using  Miss Cs existing financial commitments  as shown on her credit search 
results  and housing and living expenses using  ONS (Office for National Statistics)  data.
Miss S returned the pre-contract agreement outlining the proposed  monthly payment and 
overall cost approximately a week after Advantage emailed it to her, according to its records.  
When Advantage tried to take the first payment, the direct  debit  failed as Miss S didnt have  
the funds in her bank  account to cover  it. An arrangement was made  with her to make  the 
payment approximately two weeks later, but this also failed.  The account was brought  up-to-
date with a payment made approximately one month  after the initial  payment was due. 
Collection fees were  added to the account. 
Payments were then maintained by Miss S for approximately  one year,  before another direct 
debit request failed.  More  fees were added. The account was brought up-to-date  
approximately a month later and the next three  scheduled payments were made on time. 
From this point, several direct debit requests failed over a period of approximately  ten 
months. Then Miss S voluntarily  terminated  the agreement  and was required to repay an 
outstanding balance over six months.
Miss S brought the complaint to us, saying she found the payments a struggle due to poor 
financial circumstances. We forwarded her complaint to Advantage. In its final response 
letter, Advantage said it doesnt  believe the evidence shows  the loan was unaffordable when 
Miss S applied for it, so it didnt uphold her complaint.
Advantage pointed out that it operates in the non-prime sector of the motor finance  industry.  
That means its typical customer  may have been  declined for credit  elsewhere and may have 
adverse credit information showing on their credit file. 
Miss Ss complaint was referred to me when Advantage  rejected the findings  of our 
investigator. To allow  both parties to comment on my findings, I made a provisional  decision. 
My findings   outlined  in my provisional  decision were as follows:
Ref: DRN96462712My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
In the relevant regulatory guidance from the time  The OFT Guidance on 
irresponsible lending  (Published  by the OFT in 2010 and updated in 2011)  Part 4: 
Assessment of affordability says:
In the OFTs view, all assessments of affordability  should involve a 
consideration of the potential for the credit  commitment to adversely  impact 
the borrowers financial situation, taking  account of the information that the 
creditor is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of 
any assessment of affordability, in any particular  circumstance, should be 
dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number  of factors.
I think the most relevant of the factors to Miss Ss case which are listed in the 
guidance are:
The borrowers financial  situation at the time the credit is sought.
And:
The borrowers credit  history including  any indications of the borrower 
experiencing  or having experienced  financial difficulty.
The guidance gives the following additional  note on the above point:
Assessing affordability,  in the context of this guidance, is a borrower-
focussed test which  involves a creditor assessing a borrowers ability to 
undertake a specific credit commitment, or specific additional credit 
commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further)  
financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
To reach my decision, Ive thought about whether  the checks  Advantage made when 
Miss S applied for the loan should  have led it to request  additional information. And, if 
it had requested additional  information   such as bank statements or an income and 
expenditure assessment  should  it reasonably  have thought the repayments on the 
loan were affordable  for the full term of the agreement. 
Before I go into the specifics of Miss Ss circumstances, Id like to acknowledge that 
Advantage operates in the non-prime market. I do understand that its customers will 
be those whove had difficulty  with credit in the past and that its criterion  for accepting 
applications for credit reflects this. But a proportionate affordability  assessment also 
needs to reflect this  especially bearing in mind the regulations refer to a borrower 
focussed assessment.  
I also understand that its not economically viable for it to conduct an in-depth  
financial analysis for each of its loan applicants   nor is it required to do so. But it 
also cant rely on a one-size fits all approach either.  Whats  considered  
proportionate will inevitably vary depending on things such as the size and overall 
Ref: DRN96462713cost of the loan,  the term, the monthly  repayments and the customers individual  
circumstances. 
Advantage has said that the FCA expects consumers to take reasonable 
responsibility for their own choices  and decisions.  I dont think  that lessens the 
obligation on the credit  provider not to lend irresponsibly. 
Advantage did consider Miss Ss payslips and credit  file. While I agree that the 
payslips wouldnt have  given it cause for concern, I think the credit file should have 
prompted Advantage to make further  checks.  I say this because  the credit  file 
showed Miss S had defaulted on several loans  the most recent within 12 months of 
her application.  The credit file also showed that she was six months  in arrears with a 
loan of a similar size  both in capital and contractual  monthly  payment - to the one 
for which she was applying. And the credit report said Miss S owed in excess of 
£23,000 at the time.
The OFT guidance   outlined above  says the extent  and scope of any assessment 
should be dependent on  and proportionate to the borrowers financial situation at 
the time the credit is sought. I think this means, where a lender can see from the 
information it has that an applicant for credit is already experiencing financial 
difficulty, the extent  of its assessment needs to be greater.
I think Miss Ss credit file showed Advantage that shed not coped well with loans  in 
the medium-term and the more recent  past,  given the defaults. And I think the level of 
arrears on the similar  size loan showed that affordability was currently an issue for 
her. So, at the very least,  I think it should have carried  out further checks  on what her 
expenditure was to fairly establish the affordability of the proposed loan.
Advantage says it assesses affordability  using Office of National Statistics  (ONS)  
data. I understand  that this analyses the general cost of living  for a specific  
geographical area.  Ive seen from our file that our investigators comments  about the 
use of ONS data have  become a point  of contention  for Advantage. So, Id like to 
make it clear  that I dont  think, generally, theres a lack of value in the use of ONS 
data when assessing affordability. 
But, for the reasons explained  above,  I do think Miss Ss credit file demonstrated that 
relying solely on the ONS data in her specific case wasnt good enough. There were  
many indicators of financial difficulty on the credit check which showed the average 
figures provided by the ONS data clearly didnt fit with the reality  of Miss Ss situation. 
For this reason, I think it should have prompted  Advantage  to gain more information 
about her specific expenditure. 
I cant be sure what information Advantage would have asked for. But Ive seen 
copies of Miss Ss bank  statements  from the time. In the absence  of anything else,  I 
think these give a good indication of what information Advantage would most likely 
have seen if theyd  asked more questions about  her expenditure. Further  
investigation may even  have  uncovered her private  debt to a family member.  But 
even without that knowledge,  I think Advantage would likely have seen that she 
regularly borrowed from high-cost, short-term lenders  and was constantly overdrawn. 
I think this, along  with the concerns from Miss Ss credit file, should have led 
Advantage to assess her application as unaffordable. I say this because  the 
Ref: DRN96462714information it did see and the additional  checks it should  have made would have 
shown she was unable  to regularly and sustainably maintain her existing 
commitments out of her income alone.
I can see from correspondence  that Advantage thinks the loan was affordable  
because it was repaid  in full, without default. But I dont think that Advantages 
contact notes and Miss Ss payment history show it was affordable. Even  if Miss S 
had made  all of her payments on this loan on time, that wouldnt necessarily mean  
that it was affordable and sustainable  at the time it was agreed.  For example,  she 
may have  had to fund the repayments with other  borrowing  or failed  to meet  other 
commitments because  she favoured this one. 
But Ive seen that the car was collected by Advantage approximately half way 
through the term of the loan, following several separate episodes  of missed 
payments. Miss S did repay  what she owed  under  the agreement, but over the 
following six months. And Ive seen  that Miss S did sustain payments for a period  of 
12 months, following  initial difficulty,  but not for any significant length of time after 
that. 
For a loan to be affordable,  it needs to be sustainable over its term. I wouldnt expect 
Advantage to have  had future  knowledge  of Miss Ss financial circumstances. But I 
think it should have  seen, from her circumstances at the time, that she would have 
likely had significant difficulty maintaining the payments on this loan.
In summary,  I dont think this loan was affordable to Miss S and I think the further  
checks Advantage should have carried-out - based on the information it saw in her 
credit file - would have  confirmed that. So, I dont agree  that Advantage should have 
provided the finance to Miss S.
Before I move on to what Advantage should do to compensate Miss S, Id like to 
address other points  Advantage  has made  in its submissions.
The FCA policy statement  Advantage has referred  to was published approximately 
six years  after Miss Ss loan started,  so doesnt  directly relate  to this complaint. But I 
think the relevant  principles covered  in it are broadly the same as the OFT ones Ive 
already considered and would mean the same for Miss Ss complaint.  Specifically, it 
accepts the usage of statistical data and estimates of non-discretionary expenditure  
but not in all cases. So, I think, if I were to apply this guidance, rather than that of the 
OFT which was applicable at the time,  I would  still conclude that Miss Ss credit 
report should have  prompted Advantage to make  further checks.
Advantage has referred to a specific separate final decision published by this 
Service. Ive read that decision  and acknowledge that there are similarities with some  
of the circumstances  but there  are significant  differences. Each case is assessed 
on its own circumstances and Im satisfied that in this case, Advantage has lent 
money to Miss S when it shouldnt have.  
Ref: DRN96462715Advantage has said that the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  recently  provided  it 
with very good  feedback  on its affordability assessment processes and raised no 
remedial actions to be undertaken.  Advantage also says that its affordability 
assessment process  has changed little since Ms Ss loan was approved in 2012.
Ive carefully thought  about Advantages comments here. It seems to be saying that 
the FCA agreed that a sample set of data it provided  on recent loans were broadly in 
line with the regulators  expectations, as set out in Policy Statement 18/19. And it 
follows that the assessment of affordability  completed at the time of Ms Ss 
application was adequate.  Or that it is somehow indicative that Ms Ss problems 
repaying her loan werent related to its affordability assessment.  
I dont agree with this argument. I dont think it follows that the assessment of 
affordability carried out before Ms Ss loan  which was provided some seven years  
before the correspondence referred to  was adequate simply because the FCA says 
Advantages processes now are broadly in line with its expectations. 
I say this especially  as the guidance  in place at the time  the Office  of Fair Tradings 
Guidance on Irresponsible Lending  makes it clear  that an assessment of 
affordability needed to be proportionate to the borrowers circumstances as well as 
the circumstances of the loan itself. 
Furthermore, in determining Ms Ss case, Im required to consider  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And thats  a different question to 
whether the current  regulator considers that Advantages  affordability  processes 
need remedial  action in 2019.  And Im satisfied that, even if Advantages standard 
affordability process at the time was broadly in line with the regulators expectations, 
that doesnt in itself mean its decision to lend to Miss S was fair.
Ive seen that Advantage has acknowledged that, whatever processes are put in 
place, some borrowers will fail to maintain their loans. But I dont think  Miss Ss 
difficulty was only predictable with the benefit  of hindsight  as Advantage has also 
said. As Ive explained, I think  the evidence Advantage saw at the time should have 
led it to carry-out further checks which would have likely highlighted concerns around 
sustainable repayment.
Miss S confirmed she accepts my findings,  but Advantage doesnt and wrote  explaining  why. 
Ive thought about Advantages comments, but they dont lead me to change my findings. I 
think much  of what Advantage  has said in its response is explained sufficiently in my 
findings. But Ill now attempt  to add further clarity  to what I think  are Advantages main 
causes for concern.
Advantage says,  at the time of Miss Ss application, its affordability checks  were  far 
in excess of what the OFT would  have considered  as proportionate. It suggests  Ive 
unfairly used the benefit of hindsight to identify a trigger  point  at which  it should  have  
carried out additional affordability  checks. 
Ive outlined my consideration of the respective  OFT guidance  above.  I think  the guidance 
seeks to minimise ambiguity around  the definition of proportionate by outlining  a number of 
factors upon  which its dependent. Ive identified two of those factors  as being particularly 
relevant to Miss Ss complaint. They relate  to any financial  circumstances at the time and 
any credit  history that may indicate  the applicant was experiencing financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN96462716I accept that Advantage wouldnt have seen that Miss S was a regular user of short term 
finance and that hindsight has made that apparent. But there were defaulted loans listed  on 
her credit file. One loan in particular  of similar size and monthly  cost  was, at the time of 
Advantages search, substantially in arrears. I think,  without a reliance on hindsight,  this was 
a clear indication  that Miss S was unlikely to be able to afford another  similar sized  loan or at 
least indicated she was likely to be in financial  difficulty. 
The credit file  provided to us by Advantage as evidence of the checks  it made  shows  
Miss S was experiencing  financial  difficulty at the time of the application. So this was the 
trigger point for Advantage to look further into her circumstances or decline her application 
based on what it could  see. It doesnt appear  to have  responded to that trigger, so failed  to 
identify that this was a loan Miss S was unlikely to be able to afford sustainably. I therefore 
dont think Advantage  carried out reasonable or proportionate checks  before  granting credit.  
Advantage says that Miss S successfully discharged her responsibilities under the 
agreement without  default. And it suggests  that, were  it to have acted in line with my 
interpretation of the OFT guidance  on affordability, its approach wouldve had to have 
changed for thousands of similar applications  which are proving to have good 
customer outcomes.
I explained in my findings that each complaint we receive is considered on its own 
circumstances. I think  this should also apply to a lenders assessment of an applicants 
affordability, as each  one has a unique set of circumstances. Im not in a position to judge  
whether Miss Ss circumstances are sufficiently  similar to those of the customers Advantage 
has referred to, so as to say they should have had further checks.  But I dont agree with 
Advantages view with regard to a successful outcome for Miss S.
The OFT guidance  specifically says assessing  affordability is a borrower focussed test. So 
its more than merely a matter of the amount  of risk the creditor is prepared to accept.  I 
explained in my findings that, for a loan to be affordable, the payments need to be 
sustainable for the whole  term of the loan. Miss S experienced several  episodes  of missed 
payments and had little choice but to voluntarily terminate the loan approximately half way 
through its term, due to her difficulty in making  the monthly payments. Advantages contact 
notes suggest  that it put her under a degree  of pressure to voluntarily terminate because she 
was behind on payments at the time. She was then under a payment arrangement for a 
further six months (approximately) to discharge the remainder of the loan and the cost of 
recovery which Advantage added to her account.
So, while Advantage didnt register a default on Miss Ss credit file, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to approach the affordability assessment with the view that Miss Ss outcome is 
a desirable or acceptable goal. Given that an assessment of affordability should include 
sustainability, a creditors goal should  be that its borrower completes  the term, having  made  
all the contractual  monthly payments without undue difficulty. I strongly disagree that the 
outcome was satisfactory for Miss S. And I think Advantages suggestion that it was 
satisfactory for her, is an indication that its focus was on lending risk  the risk that the 
creditor will lose financially - rather than borrower affordability  the risk that the borrower will 
lose financially. 
Advantage says its particularly concerned  with my comments  on the use of Office of 
National Statistics (ONS) data.
Ref: DRN96462717I think Ive said as much as is necessary in my findings about the use of ONS data. But to 
summarise, and for the sake  of clarity, I understand its value and I think  its a reasonable 
check to make as a matter of course.  But I think further checks should have been 
undertaken by Advantage once  it had seen Miss Ss credit file as it indicated she was likely 
to be in financial difficulty. Or it should have declined her application on the basis  of 
affordability.
Advantage says Ive placed a great deal of weight on Miss Ss comments  while 
making her complaint.  And that it suspects her comments are likely to have been 
different when she wanted  the loan and was asked to give information  about her 
financial circumstances at the time.
Id like to reassure Advantage  that Ive carefully  considered the comments  of both parties  
when reaching  my findings. In doing so, Ive thought about Miss Ss needs  at the time. I 
understand that Advantage  feels that the borrower  needs to act responsibly  when  applying  
for credit  its said that the FCA has made that point. But I dont think  that lessens the 
requirement on it to carry out a proportionate  and reasonable assessment of affordability and 
sustainability and to lend responsibly. 
Miss S has said her previous car had stopped working and Advantage was the only creditor 
willing to provide the finance for a replacement. This may have meant there was an element  
of desperation  in Miss Ss application.  So, despite  the responsibility on Miss S, I think  
Advantage was likely to have  been better placed to consider  her application objectively. 
Thats one of the reasons it should make  further checks in some cases, such as verifying  
income or expenditure  the customer isnt always going to be forthcoming about their 
financial circumstances or fully understand the significance  of them.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I think, had Advantage carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks, it would  have likely found out that Miss S couldnt  
sustainably afford to repay the borrowing. It therefore shouldnt  have  lent to her. 
Advantages response to my provisional  decision hasnt  changed  my thoughts on Miss Ss 
complaint  I trust Ive explained why. So, the way Im directing Advantage to put things right 
also remains unchanged. This is as follows:
Putting things  right
Miss S had use of the car for 26 months so its fair she pays  for that use. But as she 
shouldnt have been given that loan in the first place, its not fair for her to pay any interest  
and charges on the amounts shes paid.  Anything shes  paid on top of this is an 
overpayment and should be refunded to her with 8% simple interest from the date of 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  Advantage should include the amount Miss S paid 
after voluntary termination  in its calculation  of her overpayment.
Advantage should also arrange for any adverse  data in relation to this loan to be removed 
from Miss Ss credit file. Advantage  has raised concerns about this part of our redress   as 
proposed in our investigators opinion. Particularly,  it says this approach risks undermining  
the principles of data reciprocity  upon  which the entire UK consumer credit industry relies.
I do understand Advantages concerns in this regard. But my finding  is that the lending  was 
unaffordable to Miss C, and her application  should not have  been  accepted  by Advantage. 
While the redress I propose  cannot perfectly  reflect this, it should  aim to do so wherever 
Ref: DRN96462718possible. Miss C would not have accumulated the adverse data on her credit file if 
Advantage hadnt agreed to her application. So, I think removing the relating adverse data 
from her credit file most closely  puts her back in the position she would otherwise have been 
in. 
My final decision
My Final  Decision is that I uphold  Miss Ss complaint  about  Advantage  Finance  Ltd. I require 
Advantage to put things right for Miss S in the way Ive explained in the putting things right  
section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9646271