K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that its unfair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce the debt from which  he was discharged 
when his Protected Trust came to an end rather than paying it directly  to him.
background
Mr C took out three loans  prior to 2010  and with each  loan he took out a PPI policy to protect 
his repayments.
In 2010 Mr C entered into a Protected Trust Deed  as he was unable to repay  all his debts 
when they fell due. This is an alternative  in Scotland to bankruptcy (called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and their creditors,  which  is 
administered by a trustee.
When Mr C entered into the Protected Trust Deed, RBS total claim was £15,824.20. RBS 
indicates that a payment of £2,937.54 was made through the Protected Trust which left an 
outstanding unpaid amount of £12,886.66. RBS didnt chase for this outstanding amount left 
unpaid but it confirmed it closed the accounts as a result of the Trust Deed. 
In 2018 Mr C complained  to RBS about the mis-sale  of the PPI policies. In January  2019 
RBS wrote to Mr C to tell his that it was prepared to uphold his complaint  about the mis-sold 
PPI in relation  to all three loans. It sent three  offer letters, one for each PPI policy  and 
offered to pay £5,871.24 (net) in total compensation for all the policies. 
In all the letters RBS said the redress reflected a refund  of the PPI premiums and the extra  
interest that Mr C had paid to date, together with simple interest to compensate him for the 
time hed been  out of pocket.
Mr C signed acceptance  forms  for the offers from RBS for all the PPI policies on 2 March 
2019.
RBS used the redress to offset against the amount that remained unpaid  after the end of the 
Protected Trust. But Mr C doesnt  think the PPI compensation  he was offered should be 
used by RBS in this way. He says the PPI compensation wasnt  identified by RBS when his 
Trust Deed was in place, when it would have  rightly have been  used to set off against his 
debts at that time. But as RBS did not declare  the PPI refund and compensation before the 
end of the Protected Trust then it isnt fair they should use it for set off now.
Mr C is also unhappy that as he had anticipated receiving the payment direct,  he had spent 
some money on his credit card which he had expected to be able to clear.  And he would not 
have spent this money  had he known he would not be paid the compensation. 
Our adjudicator said that he thought that it was fair to set off the compensation against  the 
sums that remained unpaid to RBS. He said that Mr C had borrowed money from RBS which 
couldnt be chased for and wouldnt ever be repaid. So it wouldnt be fair to ask RBS to 
repay the compensation to Mr C directly  when he didnt have to repay RBS his debts.
Mr C was unhappy with the adjudicators view and asked that the matter be referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN99488102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
can I consider this complaint?
It was suggested  by RBS that as Mr C had signed an acceptance in full and final settlement 
accepting its offer then this service should not consider this case. We have to consider this 
in light of the facts  of each case.
Mr C did sign an acceptance which said the compensation  would be used against any debt if 
he was or had been subject to a Protected Trust Deed. But it went on to refer to the 
compensation being set against any arrears  on his account. As the Protected Trust had 
ended Mr C may have believed he did not have  an account with RBS any longer so this 
clause did not apply. So the wording  may have perhaps  not been as clear as it could  have 
been.
I therefore think to be fair Mr C is entitled  to an answer and so I am not dismissing this 
complaint. 
can the compensation be used to set off against unpaid debts Mr C had with RBS?
When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
As RBS has upheld Mr Cs PPI mis-sale complaint, in this decision Ive just looked  at 
whether what its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. I havent looked  at how the 
PPI policies came to be mis-sold. And Mr C hasnt raised any issues  about the amount of 
compensation offered so I also wont consider this. Mr Cs complaint is that RBS has set-off 
the amount of compensation to reduce the loan amounts that havent been  fully repaid rather  
than paying the compensation directly  to him. 
So in this decision I need to decide whether  its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr Cs 
PPI compensation  offer to reduce  the much higher amount which  he wasnt  required to pay 
back (and was written off by RBS) after his Protected Trust Deed was closed.
And in this case the relevant law I need to take account of is Scots  law. In recent years there 
have been a number of cases  looking at what happens to PPI compensation after a Trust 
Deed has been  discharged. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond  [2018] UKSC  54, the Supreme Court considered the effect of a 
discharge following  a final distribution  by the trustee. In that case,  the discharge was held to 
Ref: DRN99488103terminate the Trust which  meant that any unrealised assets  were  returned to the debtor  
which included the PPI compensation that no one had known about at the time.
So in this case the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should  not be paid to the 
trustees for the benefit of the creditors. It said it should be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly  v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2019] CSIH 56, The Inner House of the 
Court of Session  considered whether RBS could  offset PPI compensation against the 
amount that hadnt been repaid by the consumer when the Protected Trust Deed came  to an 
end. The terms of the Trust Deed in this case meant  RBS had, in effect, agreed that the debt 
would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive the debt to offset  the PPI compensation.
So I accept  that, on the assumption  that the relevant terms of the Trust Deed in Donnelly  are 
essentially the same as those in this case, then RBS could not, in court, successfully argue 
for set-off in this case. 
In this case I am aware of and have taken  into account the relevant law. But whilst this 
service must take note of the relevant  law and what the courts  say, ultimately  I must apply 
an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint. Having done this, I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce 
the money Mr C borrowed and didnt repay.
Just because Mr C entered into a Protected Trust Deed and Mr C was discharged  from the 
debt when the Protected Trust ended,  doesnt  make a difference to what is fair. Mr C had the 
protection of the Trust Deed and could  not be chased for money that he had owed after the 
Trust Deed ended. But I think it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay Mr C compensation when 
he doesnt now have  to repay  the borrowing which he had the use of and never repaid. 
The fact that Mr Cs Protected Trust had come  to an end before  this offer of PPI 
compensation was made doesnt,  in my opinion, make a difference to what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here. I dont think it would be fair to require RBS to repay  
the PPI compensation directly to Mr C when he doesnt now need to pay back  to RBS a 
much bigger  amount which he borrowed when he took out his loans.
So it follows  from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation its 
offered to reduce the amount outstanding which was never repaid to RBS following the 
closure of Mr Cs Protected Trust.
If Mr C accepts my decision  it is legally  binding on both parties. If he doesnt  accept  it he is 
free to pursue his issues  through the legal system.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Cs compensation due for the 
mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount  that wasnt repaid when his Protected  Trust came to an 
end. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Ref: DRN99488104Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9948810