K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained that Everyday  Lending Limited (EDL) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this matter in January 2021 which I summarise below.
Miss W was given  a loan of £4,000 by EDL in August 2011. The loan was due to be repaid in
48 monthly instalments  of around £157. The total amount payable,  including  interest was just
over £7,258. I understand the loan account was settled in 2014.
EDL initially  said that as Miss W took her loan more than six years ago, her complaint
couldnt be investigated by this Service as it was outside the time limits. It appears that EDL 
accepted the adjudicators view that we were able to look into Miss Ws complaint and it sent 
its business file to this Service. The adjudicator issued her view on this case  which  went to 
EDL and to Miss W in May 2020. As the matter had not been settled, it was passed to me to 
make a decision.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
EDL needed  to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss W 
irresponsibly.
EDL asked Miss W for information about  her income  and it requested payslips to verify her
salary. EDL also acquired a credit  report and reviewed bank statements from Miss W. EDL
allowed around 35% of Miss Ws net monthly income for her regular living expenses and it
calculated her mortgage repayment  and monthly payments to outstanding creditors. From
what Id seen, I thought the checks that EDL carried out before it agreed to lend to Miss W
were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, I didnt think that EDL made  a fair lending decision on this occasion.  
EDL was required to establish  whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loan - not just
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. The
loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesn't automatically follow  this is the case. This
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to
make their repayments without borrowing further.
EDL was aware from its checks that Miss W had a number of outstanding creditors  including
secured and unsecured loans and credit  cards. EDL calculated that after Miss W had paid
her monthly EDL loan repayment and her existing creditors and regular living  expenses, she
would have just over £77 per month  left as disposable income.
I didnt think this was enough to cover  unexpected  emergencies over the whole 48-months
loan term. This was an expensive loan and Miss W had to maintain her loan repayments
Ref: DRN91736872every month for four years, in addition to her existing creditor repayments. I thought EDL 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware from the information it had gathered and its own 
affordability calculations  that, given Miss Ws financial position, it was unlikely that she would  
be able to sustainably  repay her loan over the extended loan term. I thought  in these 
particular circumstances,  EDL should  reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate  
to lend to Miss W.
Id not seen anything which made me think that EDL treated Miss W unfairly in some other
way. But taking everything into account, I didnt  think it should have agreed  to provide the
loan to her. 
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Miss W said she is 
pleased with my provisional decision. I havent  seen any response from EDL and the 
deadline for any further comments  has now passed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given I have not received  any new information  or further comments that change my mind 
about this matter, I confirm the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision and I 
uphold Miss Ws complaint.
putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss W to have repaid  the principal amount that she
borrowed, because  she had the benefit of that lending.  But she has paid interest and
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided  to her.
So EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loan and treat all the payments Miss W 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ws loan account  results in her having effectively made  payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then EDL should  refund these  overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Everyday Lending Limited  to 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
Ref: DRN91736873Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9173687