K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  with the premiums  theyve  been charged by St Andrews 
Insurance Plc for their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs N have lived in their property  for about  50 years. It is a half timber-framed 
property. They say in all that time theyve only made  one home insurance claim. That was in 
2001 for a serious flood. On a flood risk map produced by the Environment Agency their 
property is shown as in an area where  the likelihood of flooding is described  as significant. 
But they say according to the Environment Agency  the flood was a one in 400 year event.
In 2006 they changed  their insurer to St Andrews since their previous insurer had greatly  
increased the premium.  The initial premium  charged by St Andrews was £507. Over the 
following years  the premium increased  until in 2011 it was £1,188.52. Mr and Mrs N 
managed to bring the cost down  to £937  by agreeing a higher excess.  They say the 
premium then went up to £1,111.03  in 2012,  £1,319.23 in 2013 and in 2014  to £1,569.07. 
They say they had no option  but to cancel their policy at that point, hoping  to find cheaper  
cover elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs N say their neighbours who have  similar properties have only had very small 
increases in their premiums and in 2015  their premiums went down.
St Andrews  say Mr and Mrs Ns premiums increased each year in line with a general rate 
increase. It said on five renewals since 2008 Mr and Mrs N had contacted it to discuss the 
renewal quote. Each time they chose to continue with the cover.
Mr and Mrs N brought  their complaint to this service. Initially  our adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. But another adjudicator later came to a different view.  He said Mr N had taken an 
active interest in the renewals of the policy and hadnt been obliged  to accept the renewal  
invitations. 
As Mr and Mrs N didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Ns view that the flood risk of their property has 
increased because  of developments near their property which  have been  permitted  by their 
local planning authority. And they think that the risk of their property flooding  again is 
minimal rather  than significant as shown on the map produced  by the Environment  Agency. 
But Im not able to look at complaints about  the acts or omissions of either of those bodies.
I understand why Mr and Mrs N feel theyve been unfairly treated by St Andrews after 
switching to them in 2006. Theyve seen their premiums increase significantly, year on year,  
since 2007 with most  recent increases of 19% in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
St Andrews  has shown that it capped the general  increases at 20% per year. This was a 
commercial decision and as a result, if there  was a significant increase in the risk premium,  it 
Ref: DRN93083432wouldnt pass the full increase straight  on to the customer. It said the pre-2012 premium  
increases were consistent with the removal of the discount which  had been given to Mr and 
Mrs N as new customers in 2006.
Insurers regularly re-assess their view of flood  risk. And the way they do this has become  
increasingly sophisticated over recent years. Insurers now have complex  flood modelling 
programmes which provide them with much more  detail and analysis than ever before. 
St Andrew s says the premium increases from 2012 are consistent with an increase in risk 
premium and this was mainly due to its view that Mr and Mrs Ns property  is at very high risk 
of flooding. Theres no right or wrong way of assessing flood risk even though  Mr N may 
strongly disagree with St Andrews view. Its entitled to set a premium that it feels fairly 
reflects the risk of insuring  Mr and Mrs Ns property against flood and other risks.
So I wont  usually challenge a decision about  how an insurer assesses risk provided that the 
insurer hasnt taken  advantage of the customer.  A key factor  in determining this is whether a 
consumer has the freedom and the ability to change insurers  and shop around for the best 
price. Mr N contacted St Andrews on several occasions at renewal  time to discuss  the 
premium. At one point  St Andrews even  gave Mr N the name of specialist  insurers  who 
might have offered  better rates. I think its clear that Mr and Mrs N didnt have to let their 
policy renew with St Andrews but chose to do so until 2014.
St Andrews  has shown us why its increased  Mr and Mrs Ns premium so significantly.  Im 
satisfied from the evidence its provided  (which  Im unable to share with Mr and Mrs N due to 
it being commercially  sensitive)  that its shown me how the flood risk factor  has impacted 
their premium. Im also satisfied that it would have treated any of its customers with similar  
circumstances in the same way. Mr and Mrs N werent singled out and so I dont think 
theyve been treated  unfairly by St Andrews.
I cant comment on what Mr and Mrs Ns neighbours may have been  charged  by their 
insurers. Just because  another  insurer  may view the flood risk differently doesnt necessarily 
mean that St Andrews has treated Mr and Mrs N unfairly.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9308343