K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
In 1995 Mr and Mrs W took out joint PPI when they applied for a mortgage.  The policy 
covered their monthly  mortgage  repayments  in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree.  They  
mainly say that they didn't  know about the PPI.  
Theyve asked for an ombudsman to review whats happened,  so this complaint comes  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
I dont know what mightve  been discussed when Mr and Mrs W applied for their mortgage. 
But Mr and Mrs W had to say if they required PPI. And they ticked the PPI part of their 
mortgage application to say that they were  interested in PPI. 
And they appear  to have wanted the cover. I say this because  Mr and Mrs W also completed 
a separate form to have PPI. They filled in their details and the amount of monthly benefit 
they required. And they both signed  the completed  form to say they wished to have PPI.
Based on all the information I've seen,  I find on balance  that Yorkshire Building Society 
made Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Yorkshire Building Society didnt advise Mr and Mrs W to have  the policy.  But Yorkshire 
Building Society still had to make sure that Mr and Mrs W had enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for them.
Yorkshire Building Society told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from the 
date Mr and Mrs W took out PPI. But it has provided  a policy document which was already in 
use before  Mr and Mrs W arranged  their cover. And I think  its likely that in all main  respects  
the policy that they took out wouldve  had similar terms and conditions. 
Cover was available for joint mortgage borrowers and, where  the policy benefits were 
shared, there was an equal 50:50 split of the benefit. 
Ref: DRN90729472Mr and Mrs W opted for accident, sickness and unemployment cover.  They took out this 
mortgage when  they were  both earning.  And I think its likely that theyd have found it difficult  
to keep up their mortgage monthly repayments  in the long term if either (or both) of them 
couldnt work or lost their job. The policy wouldve paid the benefit amount theyd said they 
wanted for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. Repeat  claims were possible 
giving them long term cover. Ive seen  nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs W had any other 
reliable means of paying the mortgage monthly repayments in the long term if they werent 
working. Having the policy  in place  wouldve given them peace of mind  that their home  was 
protected.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  I dont know how much information 
Mr and Mrs W were given about this. But, it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs W were affected  by 
any of the main limitations or exclusions when they took out the policy . So I dont think  more  
information about things that didnt affect them wouldve  made any difference  to their 
decision to take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs W were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the likely PPI 
terms and conditions that applied. 
The monthly cost to have  the PPI was set out on their mortgage  offer  so I think  
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  seen this. And as they chose to take out the PPI it looks  like they 
were happy  to pay for it at the time.  They couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if they 
decided they no longer  wanted to pay for it. 
Looked at overall, its possible that there mightve  been some failings in the way this policy 
was sold. But I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been 
better informed as it gave  them useful protection.  I dont  think  that having better information 
about the policy wouldve put them off taking it out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9072947