K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about a flex credit loan he took out with CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid (CEN). He says the loan was unaffordable. 
background
In November 2013, CEN arranged a running  credit agreement called a flex credit account  
for Mr M. Mr M repaid  the account in May 2015.
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Ms complaint be upheld in part. She felt the checks CEN 
carried out went far enough  when the flex credit account was originally arranged. However, 
the adjudicator  felt that CEN should have monitored the account and more could have been 
done by September 2014, when  she considered  Mr M was showing signs  of financial 
difficulty.
 
CEN did not agree. It said; 
It doesnt agree that Mr M was reliant  on this product. 
During the time Mr M held his Flex Credit loan, there  were  significant gaps in lending,  
with the largest  break being 70 days. 
Mr M had credit  available for majority of the time he held his Flex Credit loan.
A customer who was reliant  would  rarely  have  credit  available  due to the fact that 
they would  need  to continuously request funds as they become available.
Because CEN didnt agree, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about short  term lending  on our website and Ive 
used this approach  to help me decide  Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and for the same reasons as the adjudicator.
CEN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms flex credit facility  said that he needed to pay 10% of the 
outstanding capital as well as the total interest due each month. So given the terms and 
conditions of the facility, I think  that CEN  had to carry out proportionate checks  to 
understand whether Mr M would be able to pay the amount  of capital and interest  that would 
have been owing had he drawn down the full credit limit of £400. 
Looking at the example schedule on page 2 of the credit agreement,  the highest monthly 
repayment was around  £137. Given Mr Ms declared  income of £2,601 and bearing in mind 
Ref: DRN93903002this was Mr Ms first borrowing with CEN, I think the initial  checks went far enough.  And 
based on those  checks the lending appeared affordable.
But, given the type of facility the flex credit account  was, I also think  that CEN  needed  to 
take steps to ensure that the facility was being  used in the way it was designed to be, in the 
period of time Mr M had it.
Looking at page 5 of Mr Ms credit agreement, in the section entitled Is a Flex Credit 
Account suitable  for me? it says:
Credit of this type is designed  to provide you with the option  to drawdown credit  up to your 
credit limit and repay it over a maximum of 10 months
And on the following page it says:
Please note, this type of lending is a very expensive  form of credit, and is not suitable for 
long term or regular borrowing but for short-medium term, borrowing needs. You are 
encouraged to repay your loan as quickly as possible to avoid incurring additional interest  
charges.
As mentioned above, the credit agreement also included an example repayment schedule.  
This set out the minimum monthly  repayment. This was worked  out on the basis  of Mr M 
drawing down the maximum £400  immediately after opening the account and then repaying 
it over ten months.
The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT) was the regulator when Mr M took out the account. The 
relevant guidance is set out in the General Principles of fair business  practice  section of the 
OFT guidance  on irresponsible  lending. Section 2.2 of the relevant guidelines says:
creditors should monitor  the borrowers  repayment record during the course of the 
agreement, offering assistance where  borrowers  appear to be experiencing financial  
difficulty.
The Financial Conduct Authority took over as the regulator during the course of the running 
of the account  and section 6.7.2 of CONC refers  to the same practice.
CENs own documentation said that this facility wasnt suitable  for long term or regular 
borrowing. And the regulatory guidance  said that CEN should monitor  Mr Ms repayment 
record and step in where financial  difficulty becomes apparent.  In my view, all of this 
together meant that CEN had a responsibility  to monitor Mr Ms facility to ensure that it was 
being used for short  term borrowing and that he wasnt  experiencing financial difficulty 
maintaining the facility.
I can see there was a late fee charged in May 2014 which was paid 4 days later. I dont think 
this is enough  on its own to indicate Mr M was in financial difficulty. But I do think by 18 
September 2014  10 months  into the agreement, CEN ought  to have been concerned 
about the way Mr M was managing his account.  Mr M had made  six drawdowns  by this point 
and this represented his seventh  drawdown. From  what I can ascertain, his outstanding 
balance never  reduced below  £300  during this period. So when he borrowed further on 18 
September 2014 - according to email sent the same day - he still had a further 11 
repayments to make.
Ref: DRN93903003I dont agree with CENs statement that Mr M had significant gaps in lending. He was 
constantly indebted to CEN during the entire period  albeit  it wasnt  always for the full credit 
limit. Any available  credit  was therefore limited.  Indeed it seems to me that Mr M was 
requesting funds shortly  after they became available.  
I think it was clear by September 2014  that Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount he owed CEN. It was now 10 months after Mr M opened the account  and he still had 
the same  number of repayments to make and the same outstanding debt. 
I think that Mr M lost out because CEN  continued to provide borrowing from 18 September  
2014 onwards.  The lending had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
how to put things right 
In order to put things  right for Mr M, CEN should
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on any further borrowing from (and 
including) 18 September 2014; 
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement*; 
- Remove any negative information  about this loan  incurred as a result  of activity which 
took place from 18 September  2014 - from Mr Ms credit file. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Ms complaint as Ive explained above  I require  
CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as QuickQuid to put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Kathryn Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9390300