K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs W payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1988 and the PPI started  in 1991. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy  with the way Bank of Scotland handled their complaint  
about PPI, including errors it made.  Ive not dealt with that matter here, as Mr and Mrs W say 
they want to consider Bank of Scotlands response once theyve seen my decision on the 
PPI complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The PPI started about 27 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original documents 
from the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they were  not told that the PPI was optional and were led to believe 
it was part of the mortgage  process. 
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the banks representative  and the tone in which they were said.  It isnt necessarily 
wrong to strongly  advise  someone to buy an insurance policy,  even if the adviser  is partly  
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  
recommending. The closer it gets to making  someone feel they have no real sensible 
alternative to taking the policy,  the less acceptable  it is. But, as I say, I cant  be sure exactly 
what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say the bank did something wrong unless I had 
stronger evidence of this. The records also say that the PPI was started at least two years 
after the mortgage, so its less likely that Mr and Mrs W would have thought  that it was 
compulsory to keep  the mortgage  although  I dont  know  the full circumstances of how the 
PPI started. 
Ref: DRN99049202Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs Ws particular circumstances.  But it looks to me as though  a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ws situation  at the 
time. Its likely Mr W (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. And finding yourself 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. Mr W was self-employed, so he 
wouldnt have been entitled to the sick pay and redundancy payments that many directly 
employed people  would  have. And it would have put off the time when Mr and Mrs W would  
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the mortgage 
and other  living costs. This all would  have put Mr and Mrs W in a more secure position, if 
theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest they couldnt  afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think the PPI 
would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs W took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr W would have been affected by any of these. Mr W was self-employed  
which, with some PPI policies, made it more difficult to claim.  But Ive looked at the terms of 
this PPI policy, and it didnt make it harder  for self-employed people to claim. Also 
Mr and Mrs W would be paying for the PPI monthly,  so they could  cancel it at any time 
without further  cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  11 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9904920