K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc did not allow  him sufficient opportunity  
to reach  a repayment  arrangement for his borrowing before it appointed a debt collector.
background
Mr A had personal accounts with NatWest with an overdraft. He also had business  
borrowing which is being considered in a separate complaint. He says he was in financial 
difficulty and after NatWest had given him notice  that it would be closing his personal 
accounts it did not discuss repayment  options  with him. It transferred his borrowing to its 
recoveries department, and he believed that he would  be able to make  a direct arrangement 
with NatWest. Instead a debt collection  agent  was appointed to recover his personal  
borrowing.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that we couldnt 
tell NatWest what processes it should  follow. Although Mr A had been  in contact with 
NatWest in November  2017 no payment arrangement was reached. Mr A spoke to NatWest 
again in January 2018 and it says it agreed  with Mr A that it would be best if his borrowing 
was transferred to the recoveries department. It sent a final demand on 19 February 2018 
and when Mr A contacted  it on 26 February 2018 told him that the account  was already 
being moved to recoveries. He didnt think it had acted unfairly  by then appointing a debt 
collector to discuss repayment.
Mr A did not agree.  In its final response to the complaint  NatWest  had said that when an 
account was passed to recoveries it was normal practice to appoint  a debt collector.  There 
was no contact from NatWest after 26 February 2018. And he says he was consistently 
asking for details of an account that he could  make payments to. He did not think  NatWest 
ever had any intention  of coming to a workable agreement with him. And the involvement of 
a debt collector had damaged his credit  record.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to set out a bit more detail about what happened referring to both the letters  and 
contact NatWest has reported and Mr As own summary:
September 2017- NatWest contacted Mr A about  his business borrowing and Mr A had 
provided details  that his business was no longer trading and that he was on benefits and in 
financial difficulties. This led to his business  accounts and his personal borrowing being  
transferred to the collections team.
11 December 2017 - NatWest wrote  to Mr A saying  that following the unsatisfactory  
operation of his accounts his personal accounts  would be closed on 9 February  2018
15 January 2018  - NatWest wrote to Mr A to say that it intended to take action to recover the 
borrowing if no arrangement was in place by 15 February 2018.
25 January 2018  - Mr A says he arranged for a basic bank account to be set up during a call 
back. The notes  from NatWest state  that he was made aware  his accounts were being  
Ref: DRN94381112moved to recoveries. Mr A says he believed he was given assurances that the repayment 
arrangements would be handled by NatWest.
7 February 2018  - Mr A says NatWest  wrote to him saying it had been  trying to contact him. 
He says he responded and was told a letter was coming.
19 February 2018 - formal  demand for payment was made  by close of business  on 27 
February 2018. This letter set out the option of Mr A telephoning it to agree a plan and said it 
could accept debit  and credit card payments.  Or that he could write with his proposals. It 
said that if there were  no proposals agreed it could commence legal action or instruct  debt 
collectors.
26 February 2018 - Mr A says he phoned and was told his account was being passed to 
recoveries.
26 March 2018  - Mr A received a letter  saying  his account had been passed  to a debt 
collector.
18 April 2018 - a first letter from the debt collector was received.
I dont have recordings of any calls Mr A had with NatWest so I cant know exactly what  was 
said. It seems  to be agreed that he was aware the borrowing was being  passed to 
recoveries. By January  2018 he had had time to come  to an arrangement to repay his 
borrowing and he knew that his personal  accounts  would be closed. Ive not got evidence 
that he made any specific proposals or of when  he contacted NatWest wanting to make a 
payment to his personal account  and couldnt  before the account  was closed and passed to 
recoveries. While of course I would expect NatWest  to contact  him, I think it made him 
reasonably aware  of its process and for example what might happen if he was unable to 
repay the borrowing. 
I think it likely he thought  that as part of the recoveries process it would be contacting  him. I 
accept he didnt understand  that this would be through debt collectors. But that was 
NatWests process. And Im not persuaded from what Ive seen that it was unreasonable that 
the borrowing  had reached the recovery stage. It says that this allowed  it options to freeze 
interest and allow a longer period to repay. It says his credit  record  was already affected and 
NatWest has confirmed  that there would be no further entries relating specifically to the use 
of debt collectors or reported by those  third parties.
I fully appreciate Mr A wanted to deal with NatWest directly about  repayment. And that he 
thinks it acted prematurely and harshly. But Im afraid that it was entitled to decide how to 
deal with his borrowing having in my view given  him an opportunity to repay it. That involved 
the use of a debt collector and I dont have  a basis to find that NatWest made a mistake 
here. I appreciate he will be very disappointed  by my conclusions.
Ref: DRN94381113my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9438111