K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC said they couldnt consider a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
background
In April 2017, Mr A went to a repair garage, which Ill call garage  K, and used his credit card 
with Tesco, to pay for a new battery  for his car. He also paid the garage for the removal  and 
disposal of the old battery  and for the fitting of the new one. Mr A was given  an invoice from 
the garage showing a price  for each item and service. Together they came  to £111.50.
A year later,  Mr A went  to a different garage  which Ill call garage S and paid for 
replacements to the cars scuttle panel  and footwell module. Garage S, noted on their 
invoice that the damage to the scuttle  panel,  was caused when the battery replaced by 
garage K.
Mr A says that he was unable to get the cost of the scuttle panel  and footwell module, 
refunded by garage K. So, he contacted Tesco to make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section  75). Mr A says that under section 75, Tesco  are jointly 
and severally liable for any breaches  of contract  committed by garage  K. He says that 
garage K breached their contract with him, because they broke  the scuttle panel on his car, 
when they fitted  the new battery.
Tesco looked into Mr As claim but told him they couldnt consider it further.  They said the 
fitting of the new battery cost £10 and this was below the minimum amount needed  for them  
to progress a section 75 claim. Mr A didnt accept this and complained to Tesco about the 
outcome of his claim. In their final response, Tesco said theyd acted fairly  because an item 
needs to be over £100 and up to £30,000  for a section 75 claim to be considered.
Mr A disagreed with Tescos explanation  and brought  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
concluded that each of three items Mr A paid for, cost less than £100. He said that none of 
the purchases could  be considered for a section 75 claim. Mr A replied to say that all three of 
the items  are connected to each other, and had he not bought the new battery, the fitting  
wouldnt have caused damage to his car.
The adjudicator didnt change his conclusions and said Mr As claim was about the battery 
fitting. So, its that cost which needs to be considered, rather than the total of the invoice.
Mr A didnt accept the adjudicators conclusion and asked for his case  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He says he wasnt given a written quote, before he had the battery replaced. 
He says he had a discussion about the total price  and what they could do to help,  rather than 
the cost for each  part.
Mr A didnt receive a response from the adjudicator,  so he contacted us some  months  later 
for an update. Mr A reiterated  that he wasnt given a written  quote before the battery  was 
changed by the repair garage. He says it was just a discussion  about the total price.
One of our investigators  noted Mrs As comments and arranged  for his case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman for a final decision.
Ref: DRN99829452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, as well as relevant regulatory  rules, guidance, standards and codes of 
practice. Also, where appropriate, I think about  what I would consider, good industry practice 
at the relevant time.
Mr A used his credit  card to pay for the new battery  and its fitting.  So, the relevant piece of 
legislation Ive thought about  is section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This provides 
protection for consumers for goods and services  bought using credit.  
I acknowledge Mr As frustration with all that has happened with the garage K, because  hes 
been told by garage S, that they had caused damage to his car. But, my role is to look 
whether Tesco have handled  his complaint  fairly. 
Under section 75, subject  to certain  criteria,  consumers  who use a credit card to pay for 
goods and services, have an equal claim against  the credit card provider, for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. One of these criteria, is that section 75 doesnt 
apply to a claim where the cash price of a single item doesnt exceed £100.
I have looked  at a copy  of the invoice given to Mr A, by the repairing garage. The invoice 
totals £111.50 and lists three separate costs for the three separate items. Namely:
The new battery   £99.75
The fitting of the new battery   £10.00
The disposal of the old battery  £1.75
Mr A says that Tesco should  have considered the total amount, rather than just the £10 cost 
of the fitting of the battery.  He says he couldnt  have paid for the fitting, without buying the 
battery. I have checked the garage Ks website and I can see that new batteries are able to 
be bought, without having to pay for the fitting and disposal service. 
I acknowledge that Mr A paid for the fitting nearly  three years  ago and the services  offered 
by garage K may have  changed since then. But, on balance, I think  its likely garage K has 
always sold car batteries  as a separate item and offered an additional fitting service as a 
separate cost.  So, I think Mr A was able to pay for the new battery and wasnt obliged  to take 
the fitting service  in addition.
Mr A has also said garage K didnt  explain the individual costs before they started the work.  
He says the discussions were just about  the purchase of the new battery, the fitting,  and the 
disposal of the old one. Theres no evidence of the discussion Mr A had with garage K. And 
theres no written quote available, to say what price he was given before the work  on the 
battery was carried out. 
It is the cost of the fitting, in particular,  that Mr A says caused the damage to his car. The 
cost of the fitting was £10 and in all the circumstances, I think this is an individual item on the 
sales invoice from garage K. Claims under section 75, dont apply when the cash  price  of a 
single item doesnt  exceed £100. So, I dont think the £10 cost,  Mr A paid for the fitting of the 
new battery,  meets the criteria for a claim under section 75 to be considered.
Ref: DRN99829453Ive found that the necessary conditions for a claim to be considered under section 75 didnt 
exist. So, I dont think Tesco have  treated  Mr A unfairly or unreasonably  when they declined  
his section 75 claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9982945