K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited  (HFUK) are asking him to pay a debt which 
he has already settled.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 24 April 2019, a copy of which is attached  as it forms part 
of this final decision. Mr C accepted  my provisional findings. But HFUK have commented on 
the provisional decision and sent some more information for me to consider. 
They have provided two letters dated 2 May 2017,  both sent to the same  address. One of 
these is the letter referred to in my provisional  decision. The other is of the same  date and 
the contents are the same  except that the reference quoted is the current account reference, 
not the credit card reference. Ill consider below the implications of this. 
Regarding the settlement conversation with Mr C, HFUK say that he was concerned about 
the County Court judgment, which related to the credit card account. They say he offered  to 
pay a sum of money to settle that account. They  point out that the letter  which was sent to 
him confirming the settlement set out the credit card account number, the amount due and 
the offer made in settlement of that account. They say any confusion  that may have  occurred 
during the phone call ought  to have been clarified when Mr C received that letter. And that, if 
Mr C had queried it at the time, the call recording would still have been available to confirm 
what had been  said.
HFUK say that, although  the current account  has been reinstated  and a Notice of 
Assignment sent to Mr C, they havent requested payment of the account. But they say they 
think he is liable for the current  account  balance, so they dont accept my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive considered all the 
comments made by HFUK in response to my provisional decision.
Firstly, I need  to consider  whether the letters of 2 May 2017 change my mind about  this 
complaint. In my provisional decision, I referred  to the one which quoted the credit  card 
account reference. I thought that the content matched the entry  on the current  account 
contact notes for that date, suggesting  there had been cross-over  between  the two accounts 
by the debt collection agency  (R). Contrary to my provisional findings, the second letter 
dated 2 May 2017 shows that, on that occasion at least, R didnt use one letter (with one 
reference) to refer to both accounts.  They sent separate letters for each account, even 
though the content was the same.  In light of this, the evidence of the letters alone does tend 
to suggest that the settlement related to the credit  card only. This is because the settlement 
letter (sent out later on) only contained the credit card reference. 
And HFUK say that, because they issued separate letters for both accounts to the same  
address over a period  of time, Mr C should  have  known about both accounts. But they 
accept its not clear whether Mr C himself ever received  those letters and I agree with that.
Ref: DRN97754372But the letters arent the only evidence  here.  My provisional findings were  also based on the 
litigation departments call notes from June 2017.  Its unfortunate that the call recording isnt 
available, but the contemporaneous  notes are helpful. They record that Mr C queried  the 
County Court judgment during the call, as HFUK have said. But I dont think  that confirms 
that the credit card was the only debt which was settled. Its understandable that Mr C would 
have asked about the judgment, whether  he was settling one or both debts.
HFUK say that any assurance provided during the call would have been isolated to the credit  
card account  as they dont accept settlements across multiple accounts. They  say that, if 
both accounts  had been discussed, the settlement amount  would have been higher.  Whilst 
that may be HFUK / Rs standard practice,  the notes  of the call dont indicate  that this is what  
actually happened  here. In fact, the notes  specifically say adv this is the only acc in debt 
with. HFUK havent commented  on this entry. But I still find it supportive of Mr Cs 
recollection that he asked whether the payment  would settle all his debts.
If Mr C had asked this and been told that it would only settle  the credit card account, I would 
expect that to be recorded in the notes.  It would have  been a very important point and I think  
someone in the litigation  department would have known to make a note of it. But as it isnt in 
the notes, I find it unlikely that it was made  clear  to Mr C that the payment wouldnt settle  all 
his debt with R. And I still think that the person Mr C spoke to would (or at least,  should) 
have known about the current  account.
The settlement  letter  sent out after the call only referred to the credit  card account. Mr C 
says he didnt pick up on this at the time.  But I think its reasonable for him to have  relied on 
the conversation  he had on the phone. I think that Mr Cs own evidence combined  with the 
contact notes suggests he sought, and was given, assurance on the phone  that his payment 
would settle everything.
So, although  Ive carefully considered HFUKs comments, I havent changed my mind about 
the fair and proportionate outcome here. On the evidence available,  I think it was reasonable 
for Mr C to think  he was settling all his debt. So I dont think HFUK should seek  payment of 
the current account balance from Mr C. And they should pay him compensation of £50 for 
the stress  and inconvenience caused  by this situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Hoist Finance UK 
Limited should:
not pursue  Mr C for the current account debt;
remove any adverse entries about the current account which  appear on Mr Cs credit  
file after June 2017; and
pay compensation of £50 to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience this situation 
has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97754373copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that Hoist  Finance UK Limited  (HFUK)  are asking him to pay a debt which  he has 
already settled.
background
Mr C had a current account and credit card with a third party bank,  which  Ill call S. Both accounts 
were in arrears.  In December 2014, S assigned its rights in both accounts  to a company within  
HFUKs group of companies. That company then appointed a debt collection agency (which Ill call R) 
to manage the accounts.
R wrote to Mr C several times  in the period from 2014 to 2016, asking him to clear  the outstanding  
balance. Mr C says this was a difficult time for him and he didnt always read his post.  But in June 
2017, he made contact with R and agreed a settlement figure, which  he then paid.
In October 2018, Mr C received a letter about an outstanding balance  of around £160.  He didnt know 
what the outstanding balance  was for. He thought he had already settled his debt with the payment he 
made in June 2017. So he complained to HFUK. They didnt uphold the complaint because they said 
there was an amount outstanding on an account.  They provided a statement from S which showed 
how it had accrued.
Mr C wasnt  satisfied with HFUKs response, so he brought  his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator found that the settlement payment  made by Mr C had been for the credit card debt only. 
He found that the balance Mr C is being asked to pay relates to the current  account. So he thought  
that HFUK were  requesting payment of a genuine debt and had done so fairly.
Mr C was disappointed with our investigators findings so the case  has been passed to an 
ombudsman for review.  Mr C says that, when he agreed the settlement in June 2017, he believed  he 
was settling  all debt, not just the credit card account.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C accepts he had two accounts with S (the credit card and the current account). But he says that, 
when he called about settling debts in June 2017, he was given assurances over the phone  that he 
would have no more  debt after the settlement figure had been paid. He says he negotiated  to settle all 
debt and questions  why he would have agreed a significant settlement  figure only to leave some  £160 
outstanding to the same company.
HFUK say that the settlement payment was for the credit card account only,  which now has a zero 
balance. The debt which they are now chasing relates to Mr Cs current  account  and consists of an 
unarranged overdraft  plus related interest and charges  dating  back  to 2011. HFUK  have produced 
statements from S which show how the balance  has accrued.
So I need to look at what was agreed between Mr C and R in June 2017 and decide if its fair that 
HFUK are still asking Mr C to pay the outstanding amount. I asked HFUK if they have a recording of 
the call from June 2017,  but they dont. They have provided a screenshot which  confirms this. So I 
requested more information from them about  the settlement. Theyve  provided some further 
documents, including a letter  from R which confirms their acceptance of Mr Cs settlement  offer.
The reference  quoted  on this letter is the one R used for the credit card debt. And the account  number 
stated on the letter is the credit card account number. So this suggests that the settlement related to 
Ref: DRN97754374the credit card debt only.  Mr C says he didnt  pick up on this at the time. But I dont find this letter to 
be conclusive that the settlement related to the credit card only.  There  is evidence which suggests  
otherwise and Ill set this out below.
The contact notes for the current account debt show that, when Mr C complained  to HFUK  in October 
2018, he told them he had paid off the debt.  When they explained that the letter he received was 
about the current account  (as opposed to the credit card), he said they should  have told him this at 
the time he made the settlement payment.  The notes  say: advised this was not visable  [sic] at the 
time not linked.
R was appointed  to manage both the accounts and Rs contact  details were  provided. Those contact 
details were the same for both accounts. And they are the same contact details which  were given to 
Mr C in the Notice of Assignment dated October 2018. So the accounts were  both assigned  at the 
same time, to the same business and were being managed by the same debt collection agency under 
the same roof.
I have compared the contact notes for each  of Mr Cs accounts. They  follow a very similar pattern.  
Activity by R on one account  usually takes place within a day or two of activity  on the other account, if 
not on the same day. This is the case from October 2014 through  to early  2016.  The mirror contact 
picks up again in June  2016  through to 22 May 2017  when the notes on the current  account  say 
Multiple  LAS results received account closed . HFUK have explained  that LAS means living as 
stated and relates  to tracing activity which R undertook to verify where  Mr C was living. So the 
account in question was closed in May 2017. There is no further activity  on that account until October 
2018 when the Notice of Assignment was sent to Mr C, prompting this complaint.
The notes for the credit card account  have the same  entry on 22 May 2017.  But, unlike the current  
account, the credit card account was reinstated in June 2017. Activity  then continued on the credit 
card account  until later that month, when the settlement payment was received. So it seems that the 
accounts had been managed in much the same way until June 2017.  From  that point, only the credit 
card account  was active and R do not seem to have  been  pursuing the current account debt.
HFUK have  confirmed that the settlement  payment  was applied to the credit card account. But this 
doesnt persuade me that it wasnt accepted in settlement of all debts.
HFUK have  provided  a copy of a letter dated 2 May 2017 which was sent to Mr C by R. It says they 
are aware  he may be experiencing difficulties  paying and they want  to help him. The reference  quoted 
on this letter is the credit card account  reference. But the date and content of the letter seem to match 
the entry  on the contact notes for the current account on 2 May 2017. I havent  been provided with a 
letter of the same date which specifically  refers to the current  account  debt.
So I think its reasonable to conclude that the letter is the one mentioned on the contact notes. The 
notes on this account say gen settlement offer letr vuln. The same entry  appears on the notes for 
the credit card account. This suggests that, on this occasion at least, there was cross-over between 
the credit card and the current  account  on Rs systems. It also suggests  that, even  where they only 
used the reference from one of the accounts on their correspondence, the content may have related  
to both accounts.
HFUK have  also provided the litigation  departments call notes  from June 2017. The notes  are not 
comprehensive but they clearly relate to the settlement conversation. They say cst adv wants conf 
few things,  which is in line with what Mr C has said about seeking  assurances on the phone before 
making the settlement.  The notes also include the comment adv this is the only acc in debt with. 
There is no mention of the second account. I find this to be supportive of Mr Cs position  that he 
sought assurances in the phone call that the payment  would settle everything he owed to R.
And I find it likely that the person speaking to Mr C would have been aware of (or at the very least, 
had access to information about) both accounts.  I say this because it appears both accounts  were 
with the same department (the users on both sets of contact notes have the prefix LG in front of the 
Ref: DRN97754375persons name). And the settlement call took place  less than a month after the last activity on the 
current account.
So I find it likely that, when Mr C agreed a settlement with R in June 2017, R did have  or at least 
should have had - visibility of both accounts. And I find it likely that the settlement did relate to both 
debts. I realise  that HFUK maintain it related to the credit card debt only,  but I think the evidence Ive 
referred to above suggests that Mr C was calling to settle all his debts  with HFUK and was given 
assurances that he had done so.
So, on balance here, Im persuaded that HFUK accepted Mr Cs offer in settlement of his overall 
debts. But, in being fair to both sides here, HFUKs  mistake was to tell Mr C that his debts  had been 
settled when  they hadnt. So I also have  to consider that the amount that Mr C hasnt  settled still 
technically remains  outstanding. But while thats the case, I think the fair and proportionate thing to do 
here is for HFUK to agree to stop pursuing  Mr C for this amount. For these  reasons, I dont think its 
fair for HFUK to seek payment of the current account debt from Mr C now.
So I intend to uphold this complaint. And, because this situation has caused stress  and inconvenience 
to Mr C, I think HFUK should pay him compensation of £50.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties, I intend to 
uphold this complaint. My provisional decision is that Hoist Finance  UK Limited should:
not pursue  Mr C for the current account debt;
remove any adverse  entries about the current account which  appear on Mr Cs credit
file after June  2017; and
pay compensation of £50 to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience  this situation
has caused  him.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9775437