K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with an additional premium charged by Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited (Admiral) when adding an undisclosed  incident to his car insurance policy.  Hes also 
unhappy that Admiral  later cancelled his car insurance policy.  
background 
On 23 February 2019, Mr G contacted Admiral to accept a quote for a car insurance policy 
that he got online. The policy was due to start on 14 March  2019. During this call, Mr G:
-confirms he hasnt  had any motoring incidents  or losses  in last 3 years and said the 
last he had was in January 2016, which was outside the three  years  so this wasnt 
counted; 
-was told Admiral check external  claims databases and any conflicting or additional 
information can change the price; and
-confirms the details entered online are accurate and that he had given accurate 
details of all incidents or losses in the past three  years.
Admiral then checked the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and found  an incident  
had been recorded from September 2017 that Mr G hadnt mentioned  online or during the 
call when he took out the policy.  Althoug h Admiral was still willing  to insure  Mr G, this new 
information increased the cost of the policy by just over £125  including  an admin fee. On 26 
February, Admiral wrote  to Mr G to give him the option to pay the extra or cancel his policy.
On 1 March, Mr G called  Admiral for an explanation  about this. During this call, Admiral 
explained about the incident and why it wanted  to charge more. It referred Mr G to his 
insurer from the time to find out further details  of it. Mr G didnt agree with this or that an 
incident should be recorded  so he complained.
Admiral looked into Mr Gs complaint.  In its final response it explained that, because  the 
information was held on CUE, it didnt agree it had made an error  by adding the incident to 
Mr Gs policy  or in asking him to pay the additional premium.  Admiral also said that Mr G 
would need to contact his previous insurer if he felt the information added  to CUE was 
incorrect. And, if the previous insurer had made an error and removed the details, itd write 
off or refund the additional  premium if it had been  paid.  As a gesture of goodwill,  it agreed to:
-waive its fee for cancelling the policy within the first 14 days;  and
-extend its 14-day  cancellation period to 4 April 2019 so that Mr G could cancel 
without paying  a cancellation  fee and also have a full refund of the premium  paid.
Finally, Admiral explained that, if Mr G wanted to continue cover with it, hed need  to pay the 
additional premium.  And if it didnt  hear from him by 4 April itd cancel his cover. The 
complaint was handled by H, a customer assistant at Admiral.
Mr G didnt contact Admiral  and so it sent him a letter on 5 April by post and email which 
gave him notice of cancellation. Admiral says the letter explained that it didnt receive  
payment and so cover  would end by 12 April.
Also on 5 April, but after the notice of cancellation  had been sent, Mr G contacted Admiral to 
make payment of the extra fee. On the same  day he brought his complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN99004692On 10 April, Mr G phoned  Admiral as he was unhappy with how his complaint had been 
handled by a member  of staff, H. During  the call on 10 April,  Mr G referred to H in a 
threatening and offensive manner on several occasions.  As a result of things Mr G said in 
that call, Admiral wrote to him on 9 May to give him seven days  notice of its decision to 
cancel his insurance policy, explaining this would take effect on 17 May.
Mr G contacted Admiral about this and what he felt were extenuating circumstances which  
contributed to his conduct but it didnt  change its position. Admiral had also looked into Mr 
Gs concerns about how his complaint  had been  handled but didnt agree his complaint had 
been handled poorly. It also agreed  with the outcome that had been  reached by H. Whilst it 
acknowledged the cancellation letter arrived after hed paid the premium, it explained this 
was because it had already been sent by the time he called  to make payment and 
apologised for any confusion this caused.
On 17 May, Admiral wrote to Mr G to confirm his policy  had been cancelled  and that it had 
refunded the premium,  charging him only for time on cover. Mr G took out insurance with 
another company, E. This company was part of the Admiral group of insurers  and so Admiral 
also cancelled this policy on 22 May.
Mr G explains  hes unhappy with a number of matters. He says:
-Admirals cancellation  confirmation shows that an incident was recorded but no claim 
was made in 2017. So he doesnt see how this can increase his premium.  Also,  
Admiral was unable  to tell him if it related to a theft or accident.
-He was in an emotional crisis  when he called Admiral to discuss the increase of 
insurance premium. And he feels the call handler,  R, shouldve  carried out a risk 
assessment and ended the call. Because she didnt, hes now taking the blame. 
-Admiral cancelled his cover after he lodged a complaint  to our service.
-The cancellation letters are from the same person  and written  in a hostile spirit. And 
he wasnt told that any insurer in the Admiral group would cancel his insurance policy 
and refuse to insure him in the future. 
-His car insurance policy has been  recorded as cancelled by Admiral  which  is 
affecting the premiums  he will have to pay for the rest of his driving life and means he 
cant afford car insurance.  These  issues have  also impacted his health badly. 
In response, Admiral  says:
-Mr G needs to approach his previous  insurer for information about  the incident.
-It started  the process  of removing Mr G from cover following his conversation  with it 
on 10 April when he spoke inappropriately about  H, not as a result of his call with R 
or him bringing a complaint to our service.  
-It takes no pleasure from what has happened. But, as its brands are centralised,  
allowing Mr G to take cover with any of its brands could place the same staff 
members in a position where they could  be subjected  to a similar situation. And it has 
an obligation  to provide its staff with a safe work  environment.
-It acknowledges that Mr G is facing  difficult personal circumstances but doesnt feel 
this excuses his conduct or changes its decision.
Our adjudicator reviewed  matters and didnt uphold  Mr Gs complaint. She thought  Admiral  
was entitled to review  its premium and thought that Admirals decision to cancel Mr Gs 
policy was reasonable in the circumstances. Overall,  she didnt think Admiral had done  
anything wrong  in this matter.
Ref: DRN99004693Mr G didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He says he shouldnt be penalised for something 
he forgot about and where no loss occurred. Hes says hes dyslexic  and so sometimes  the 
way he expresses himself  might  seem rude or unfriendly but it isnt meant that way. At the 
time of the relevant  call with Admiral,  his mum was unwell and he describes his family 
circumstances at the time as difficult.  So he feels it was out of character when he 
communicated with Admiral.
An investigator explained that, for some insurers, an incident can increase the cost of the 
policy. Mr G was still unhappy  and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I have to tell Mr G that I think the adjudicator has reached a fair outcome in 
this particular case and so I dont uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.. 
Mr Gs complaint falls into two key issues. These are whether the following decisions made  
by Admiral were fair and Ive set out my findings  on these issues below.
1.To charge an increased premium as a result of an undisclosed incident; and
2.To cancel his policy.
Increased premium
I understand that Mr G doesnt feel the noted incident should  lead to an increase in the cost 
of his car insurance  policy.  This is because no claim was actually made. 
Theres a duty on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And 
I dont think this is what Mr G did here. Admiral asked Mr G clear questions  about any 
motoring incidents  or losses in the three years beforehand. It also made clear the 
importance of answering the questions correctly. But the incident Mr G failed  to mention was 
less than two years  before his call - hed mentioned one from outside the relevant three year 
period - and its something that he needed to declare  even if there wasnt a loss recorded  at 
the time.  
When a misrepresentation like this is discovered,  the insurer  is entitled to consider  if this is 
still a risk it would cover  and, if so, whether the cost of the policy  is affected  by it or different 
terms would  be applied.  This is what Admiral did here. It decided to continue to cover Mr G 
for a higher  premium. It also offered Mr G the option to cancel the policy himself but, 
ultimately, he decided  to pay the increased  cost of the policy.
As Admiral explained to Mr G, any incident reported  to an insurer  will be placed on CUE 
regardless of fault or circumstances. This is a central  database of motor, home and other  
incidents reported to insurance companies  which may or may not give rise to a claim. I dont 
think it was unreasonable that Admiral wasnt able to share details of the incident with him 
and referred him to his previous insurer to resolve matters.  
I think its important to explain that insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of 
consumers. And their rates continually change. Admiral has sent us information  to explain 
Ref: DRN99004694how Mr Gs price increase was calculated in relation  to the incident found by it on CUE.  And 
Im satisfied the price  he was quoted  has been calculated correctly  and applied fairly in this 
particular case.
Taking everything into account,  I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about the increase in the 
cost of his policy after Admiral discovered an undisclosed incident had occurred in the three 
years before he applied  to take out the policy with it. 
Policy cancellation
Mr Gs policy  says Admiral can cancel the insurance policy at any time by giving 7 days 
written notice if, 
you
harass or use abusive or threatening behaviour towards our staff
behave in a manner that makes  it inappropriate for us to continue your insurance
Ive listened to the relevant calls between Mr G and Admiral. Im not going to go into detail 
about them. But Mr G repeatedly and consistently  used  abusive language and made threats  
and suggestions  of serious violence  against the call handler who dealt with his complaint. 
Having fairly  identified a serious  ground for cancelling the policy,  Admiral sent Mr G written  
notice of this and then cancelled his policy. Admirals decision to cancel was made  in line 
with the policy terms. And I think its decision was a fair and reasonable one. It isnt 
appropriate for its staff to be subjected to this type of inappropriate behaviour. Any other  
cancellations of an insurance policy Mr G has taken out are a matter which need to be raised 
with that insurer  first before they can be brought  to our service.  
I note that Mr G is unhappy that E cancelled his policy and says he wasnt  told that any 
insurer in the Admiral group would cancel his insurance policy and refuse to insure him in 
the future.  Ive thought  carefully about  what Mr G has said here.  I appreciate that Mr G took 
out insurance with E after this. But E is part of the same group. Having decided  that Admiral  
didnt want to insure Mr G, I can understand why this included  Mr G approaching its 
business through another one of its brands. So I dont think  it was unfair  or unreasonable  for 
Admiral to continue to refuse to insure Mr G. I say this particularly  when its business  is 
centralised utilising  the same  members of staff for its products under  other  brands.
I think that Admiral acted professionally and calmly throughout this matter  and I havent  
found anything  to concern me in the tone of its letters to Mr G.
Finally, Admiral has recorded this accurately as a cancellation which is what Id expect it to 
do. Because of that, the consequences  of it  such as whether another  insurer would charge 
Mr G more for having declared  a cancelled policy of insurance  are not a matter  for this 
decision. They are between Mr G and his future insurer(s). Whilst it is regrettable  to hear this 
has had a negative  impact on Mr Gs wellbeing, this doesnt change the outcome in this 
matter.
My decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Admiral  Insurance Company 
Limited.
Ref: DRN99004695Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9900469