K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr F applied  for a credit card with Halifax in 2001.  He was sold PPI in connection  with this 
credit card during a meeting.
The PPI cost 78p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding  balance  for up to 12 months  if Mr F was off work sick and for 10 months 
per claim if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.
Mr F didnt  agree with our adjudicator and the complaint  has now come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
Ive started by looking at whether or not Mr F was eligible for the policy  at the time of the 
sale. Based  on Mr Fs age, residence  and employment at the time of the sale Im satisfied  
that he was eligible.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr F that the PPI was optional  and needed his consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Mr F says that he wasnt given a choice about taking the 
policy and that it was added without his knowledge. Halifax  disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what Halifax  and 
Mr F have  told us and considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely  to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the application  form.  This asks the consumer  to mark the 
box if they want PPI. I can see that the box to take PPI has been printed with a cross to 
indicate Mr F wanted PPI. From  what I can see, if the box for PPI hadnt been marked then 
PPI wouldnt have  been added to the account.
Mr F says that the box to take PPI was pre-populated (as indicated  by the fact that it had a 
printed cross marked in it) so Mr F thinks he wasnt given a choice  about  PPI. But I dont  
think that this shows  Mr F wasnt given a choice.  I can see that the rest of the form has also 
been electronically completed   including Mr Fs personal and employment details. 
I bear in mind that the PPI was sold during a meeting, so I think  its more likely that the form 
represents the discussion Mr F and the advisor had at the time of the sale and is completed  
Ref: DRN99040162on the basis of the information Mr F gave to the advisor. I think  PPI would have been 
discussed and the box to take PPI would only have  been selected  if Mr F had asked for it to 
be selected. If Mr F wasnt  happy with any of the details or the selection of PPI he could 
have discussed  this with the advisor  before signing the form. 
So all in all, I think its more likely that the PPI was presented as optional and that Mr F 
chose to take it out
Halifax accept they advised Mr F to take the policy. This means they had to take adequate 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr F. I cant say whether Halifax took all the steps 
as they shouldve. But I think the policy was suitable  for the following reasons:
-Mr F says he wouldve received  six months  full sick pay followed by six months half 
sick pay from his employer if he was off work  sick. But the policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and would also have paid out if Mr F lost his job. 
-Mr F didnt appear to have been affected  by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful  claim under  the 
policy.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the policy wasnt affordable for Mr F at the 
time it was taken out.
-Mr F wouldnt have  lost out financially if he wanted to cancel the policy earlier  as he 
was paying for it on a monthly basis.
As well as checking that the policy was suitable  for Mr F, Halifax also had to give Mr F clear  
information about the policy at the time of the sale  in particular, about  the costs,  benefits 
and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether  or not to take the PPI out. 
I dont think Halifax gave  Mr F all the information  as they shouldve.  This in itself doesnt 
mean that the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information about the policy would  have put Mr F off taking it out. 
And I dont  think better information about  the policy would have put Mr F off taking it out. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for him.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS dont need to refund everything       
Mr  F paid for it. But BoS have already offered  to give Mr F back some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think they need  to do anything  more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr F now Ive issued  my final decision if they havent 
done so already.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Ref: DRN99040163Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9904016