K821x#15complaint
Miss W says PDL Finance  Limited, trading as Mr Lender,  (PDL), irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five short term loans PDL provided to Miss W between 
November 2017  and January 2019.  Loans  1, 2 and 4 were repayable by three monthly  
instalments and Loans 3 and 5 were  repayable  by six monthly instalments. Miss Ws 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
repayment amount  
1. 2/11/17 29/1/18 £200 Around £103
2. 3/2/18 25/5/18 £200 Around £102
3. 28/5/18 23/6/18 £400 Around £166
4. 5/8/18 28/12/18 £200 Around £106
5. 2/1/19 Unpaid £330 Around £115
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ws complaint in part and thought  Loan 5 shouldnt have been 
given. 
PDL disagreed. It asked  for the adjudicators  detailed reasoning.  It also said that it had 
asked Miss W if she considered herself dependent on short term loans and Miss W had said 
she wasnt. Miss W had also said before Loan  5 that she needed the loan for a birthday 
party and to buy two tyres  for her car. So this showed that the loan was needed for a 
temporary reason.  
PDL also said that Miss W had only missed one payment on Loan 1. Miss W had told it she 
had lost her debit card and wanted to make  payment by bank transfer which  she did the 
same day. It said that Miss W had deferred payment on Loans  2 and 4 and then proceeded 
to make payments  without  difficulty.  PDL also said that its credit  checks showed  that Miss W 
had no outstanding loans. It also noted that the adjudicator had said that the deferred 
payments indicated that Miss W may have  had issues managing her finances but asked for 
clarification of this.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss W 
and to PDL on 13 September 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Id noted that for all of Miss Ws loans the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contains guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that PDL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
Ref: DRN92227162amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I thought  less thorough  checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing might  signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Id said that there might  even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought that it was important to say that PDL was required to establish whether Miss W 
could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether  the loan payments  were  affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  Id said this was because the CONC defines sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments  on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Ws complaint.
PDL had made a number  of checks before it lent to Miss W. It had asked her for details of 
her income and expenditure. PDL said that Miss Ws declared monthly income was £1,200 
for all the loans. And Miss W had declared her expenditure  as between £840  and £898  for all 
the loans. 
PDL had also checked Miss Ws credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL had provided 
us with a very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit  score and that she 
wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement.
I could see that wed received  a copy of Miss Ws credit report.  This showed that Miss W had 
recent defaulted accounts with other  lenders before Loans 3 to 5 and that she also had a 
number of other short term loans. I was aware  that when a lender  carried  out a credit  search, 
the information it saw didnt usually  provide  the same level of detail that a consumers credit 
search would  and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of 
Ref: DRN92227163a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised.  I was also aware that 
not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, 
Miss Ws defaulted accounts and other short term loans  might  not have  been  identified by 
PDLs credit  check. So, this might  have explained  any differences  between  the information  
provided by PDLs credit check and Miss Ws actual situation.
Regarding Loans 1 and 2, I could see that the repayments that Miss W needed to make 
were relatively modest compared to the income that shed declared  to PDL. The highest 
repayment for both loans  was £103.77.  I didnt  think  the repayment  amounts were so large  
that it was obvious they wouldve caused  Miss W financial difficulty.
So given Miss Ws repayment amounts for Loans  1 and 2, what  was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, and that these  were her first two loans with the lender, I didnt  
think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask her for the amount  of information that 
would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss W had provided or the 
information PDL shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I didnt think PDL was wrong to give Loans  1 and 2 
to Miss W.
Id noted that Miss W had missed her final repayment on Loan 1 by three  days  and that 
shed rolled over her final repayment for Loan  2. I thought  these might  have caused PDL 
some concerns. Miss W then took out Loan  3 just three days after repaying Loan 2. This was 
the second time that shed asked  for credit  very shortly after repaying the previous loan. I 
considered this to be an indicator of potential  financial difficulties. The loan amount had 
doubled and the loan was to be repaid over six months with a highest  instalment of £166.50. 
So Miss W was committing to make her repayments over a far longer period than her 
previous loans. And I thought there was a greater possibility  of Miss W finding  the loan 
repayments unsustainable. I thought all this should have suggested to PDL that Miss W was 
having problems  managing her money. 
I appreciated that PDL had asked Miss W for her income and expenditure. But I thought  
Miss Ws repayment history,  and the pattern and size of Miss Ws borrowing were such that 
it wasnt reasonable for PDL to rely on that information. So I thought  this should have 
prompted PDL to do some additional  checks such as asking Miss W for more  information 
about her short term borrowing  commitments.
Had it done so, PDL would have discovered  that Miss W was borrowing from at least three 
other short term lenders  and was committed to repaying them  at the same  time as she was 
repaying Loan 3. Id seen these loans on Miss Ws credit report. 
Id noted that Miss W had declared other loan repayments of £158 to PDL as part of her 
declared expenditure. But I could see from Miss Ws credit report that she had a number of 
longer term loans with total repayments  greater  than this amount  as well as her short  term 
loans. So Id thought it would have  been  clear to PDL if it had done  proportionate checks that 
Miss W was facing  problems managing her money and unlikely to be able repay Loan 3 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I didnt think PDL should have provided Loan  3 to Miss W.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of PDLs  lending history with Miss W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which PDL should reasonably have seen  that further lending 
Ref: DRN92227164was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so PDL should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ws case, I thought  that this point was reached 
by Loan 4. Id said this because:
By Loan  4, Miss W had been  borrowing from PDL for over nine months. 
Miss W had repaid Loan  1 late and taken a loan extension to repay Loan 2. She had 
repaid Loan 3 early. This might also have caused PDL some concerns. I thought the 
combination of the late repayment,  the loan extension, and the early  loan repayment 
might have  suggested to PDL that Miss W might  be experiencing some financial 
pressures. 
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed PDL. Loan 4 was for 
the same  amount  as Loan 1. But Miss W had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to PDL over an extended  period.
There were  some  small gaps between loans being repaid and a new loan being  
granted. But, I didnt  think  it would have  been  reasonable  for PDL to have concluded 
these gaps were any indication that Miss Ws finances had moved on from whatever 
situation had required her previous loans.
I thought that Miss W had lost out because  PDL continued to provide borrowing from Loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the length of time that Miss W had been taking out short term loans was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Ws ability  to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
the fact that Loan 4 was repaid didnt mean that it was repaid sustainably, or without 
causing Miss W undue difficulty. And she was unable to repay Loan 5. 
Id considered the points PDL had made in response to the adjudicators view. Id noted that 
it had asked for more  detailed reasoning  and I hoped  Id provided this. But I hadnt recreated  
affordability assessments of the loans in dispute. This was because  I thought the number of 
loans and the pattern of lending here were of concern. 
Id noted that PDL had referred  to confirmations given by Miss W regarding her dependency  
on short  term loans. But even if the provision of confirmations on this and other matters had 
formed part of the loan application process,  it didnt absolve PDL of its obligation to assess  
the risk to Miss W and make a fair decision.  
Id noted that PDL had also referred to Miss Ws loan deferrals. I agreed  with the adjudicator  
that these generally  indicated  that a borrower was having difficulties managing  her finances 
as she couldnt  keep to the contractual repayment schedule.
I also thought  that when  a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it 
was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
Ref: DRN92227165cash flow problems. Id said that PDL would know that the FCA had made it clear  in a recent 
letter to CEOs of high cost lending firms  that a high volume of relending..might be 
symptomatic of unsustainable lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So subject to any further representations by Miss W or PDL my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  PDL to:
Refund all interest  and charges Miss W paid on Loans 3 and 4 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
With regard to Loan 5, refund all the interest  and charges  that Miss W has paid on 
Loan 5, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 5;
Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  5 and 
pay any balance to Miss W; 
Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 3 from Miss Ws credit file; 
Remove all entries about Loans 4 from Miss Ws credit file. PDL should remove all 
entries about Loan 5 from Miss Ws credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If PDL intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Miss W hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
PDL said that the missed  repayment on Loan  1 because of the lost debit card was not 
evidence of financial difficulties. It also said that it had asked Miss W further  questions  
before Loan 2 to ensure  that Miss W wasnt in financial difficulties. Miss W had said that her 
financial situation was fine and that she had no other loans. It had also said that Miss W had 
told it her reasons for wanting  the loans which did not include repaying other loans. PDL also 
said that the gap of 42 days  between  Loans 3 and 4 was evidence that Miss W wasnt reliant 
on its loans. PDL had also asked Miss W further questions  before Loan 4 and Miss W had 
again said that her financial situation was fine and that she had no other  loans. PDL said that 
its checks were  proportionate to the loan amounts and showed no evidence of financial 
difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN92227166I note that PDL said that the late repayment  on Loan  1 wasnt evidence  of financial 
difficulties. I agree. But I think this together with the deferred loan repayment on Loan 2, the 
increased borrowing  sought on Loan  3 and the repeated need for more  credit very shortly  
after repaying her previous loans should  have suggested to PDL that better checks were 
required from Loan 3. 
PDL also referred to the reasons  given by Miss W for her loans and said that she gave it no 
cause for concern that she was using  the loans to repay her other  loans. But I can see that 
Miss W mostly approached PDL for another loan within days after shed repaid the previous 
one. So I think that PDL ought fairly  and reasonably to have been alert to the possibility that 
Miss W might have  been seeking further funds to cover the hole left in her finances by the 
repayment of a previous loan notwithstanding  the various reasons given by Miss W for her 
loans.
PDL also said that the gap of 42 days between Miss W repaying Loan 3 and taking out her 
next loan was evidence that Miss W wasnt reliant on its loans. But as Ive said above, I dont 
think it would  have  been reasonable for PDL to conclude that the gap was any indication that 
Miss Ws finances had moved  on from whatever situation had required her previous  loans.
I also note that PDL asked Miss W further  questions before Loan 4. But I dont think it was 
reasonable for PDL to rely on Miss Ws answers  and the other information she had provided 
to PDL because of her repayment history and the pattern and size of her borrowing. The 
additional questions  didnt absolve  PDL from its obligation to assess the risk to Miss W and 
make a fair decision.  I think  that Miss Ws pattern of borrowing demonstrates that she was 
continuing to reborrow in a way that suggested  a long-term dependence  on expensive short-
term credit. I explained in my provisional decision why I thought that caused Miss W to lose 
out and PDL hasnt  said anything  new on these  points.  
For the reasons  given  above, the points PDL has raised havent changed my decision and 
so Im upholding  the complaint in part for the same  reasons as given  in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss W paid on Loans 3 and 4 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 5, refund all the interest  and charges  that Miss W has paid 
on Loan 5, and pay 8% simple  interest* a year on the refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 5;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  5 
and pay any balance  to Miss W; 
Ref: DRN922271675.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 3 from Miss Ws credit file; and
6.Remove all entries about Loans 4 from Miss Ws credit file. PDL should remove 
all entries about  Loan  5 from Miss Ws credit file once it has been  repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must  give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If PDL intends to 
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balances, it must do so after deducting  
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9222716