K820x#14complaint
Business A complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc (Axa) provided  a poor service resulting in 
Mr D accepting a compensation claim without  any legal  advice. 
Mr D is the owner of Business A, so for ease Ill refer to him throughout my decision. 
background
In December 2017, Mr D was involved in an accident where  the third party was at fault. Their 
insurer admitted liability  and dealt with the claim for repairs.  At the same time, Mr D made  a 
personal injury claim and asked Axa to appoint lawyers which were provided under his legal  
expenses insurance.
The lawyers  were appointed in early  February 2018, however closed their file as Mr D was 
dealing with the third party insurer directly. Mr D then asked Axa to appoint the lawyers 
again, as he wanted advice on whether the offer made by the third party insurer was correct. 
Axa wasnt  able to advise  Mr D on the offer made,  so they contacted the lawyers again. 
They did this a number  of times  in February,  but didnt receive a response.  Due to the time 
that passed, Mr D felt forced into accepting the offer from the third party  insurer. 
Axa apologised and said they couldve handled  things differently. They sent new instructions 
through to the lawyers a number of times when they should have  asked them to simply 
reopen their previous  file. Because they failed to appoint the lawyers correctly, they offered 
Mr D £200. Mr D was unhappy  with this, as he was still unaware of whether the offer hed 
accepted from the third party  insurer  was fair. 
Our investigator was of the view that while Axa should have asked the lawyers to reopen  
their previous file, the offer of £200  was fair. She explained the pressure Mr D felt came  from 
the third party  insurer  and not Axa, and that Axa werent able to give any advice on the offer,  
which is why they instructed  the lawyers. 
She also explained that as Mr D had accepted  the third party offer in full settlement, he 
would need to get his own legal opinion if he now wanted to know whether the settlement  
was correct. Should a lawyer find the offer was excessively low, we may be able to ask Axa 
to pay the difference, but Mr D would need  to provide this information.  
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He felt Axa had failed in providing a service to 
him and that he had lost out financially due to their failings. He also felt it shouldnt  be his 
responsibility to seek  advice from another lawyer because this should have been Axas job. 
Because of this the complaint was passed  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As an insurer, Axa wouldnt be able to give any advice  on whether a third party  offer is fair. 
In this case their role was to instruct the lawyers on behalf of Mr D, and so what  I need to 
decide is whether  or not theyve done  what they were supposed to. 
Ref: DRN97942272Having looked  at everything, I can understand why Mr D is unhappy. His legal expenses  
cover is part of his insurance, and he should  be able to access  that service whenever he 
needs to. I agree Axa shouldve done more to help him when instructing his lawyers and that 
he was let down  on this occasion.  
Mr D also explained he felt pressured into accepting the offer from the third party insurer.  
Looking at the timeline, I feel Mr D could  have spent a bit more time chasing  Axa and the 
lawyers  even though  I accept he shouldnt have needed to. In terms of the pressure put on 
Mr D to accept  the offer,  this wasnt put on him by Axa, so I cant  hold them accountable for 
it. 
As it stands, because Mr D has accepted the third party offer in full settlement of his claim, 
he would  need  to prove, via a legal opinion, whether or not the offer was correct.  Should 
they find the offer was significantly lower than it shouldve  been, it may be the case we would 
ask Axa to pay the difference. However  this information would need  to come from Mr D. We 
arent able to get this information  for Mr D, and while I fully accept that had Axa acted 
correctly he wouldnt be in this position,  we would  need something from a lawyer in order  to 
investigate this further. 
Mr D hasnt been able to produce  any conclusive proof that the compensation he accepted 
was too low.
In terms of the compensation offered, I feel £200 fairly represents  the fact that Axa couldve 
done more when contacting the lawyers on behalf of Mr D. But I wont  be asking  them to 
offer anything more  in the face of a lack of proof  that the offer Mr D accepted was too low. 
Mr D has also explained that the lawyers have  also failed  in not picking up Axas request. 
While this may be the case,  I can only look into the complaint against Axa so cant  comment 
on this point any further. Complaints about lawyers may be addressed to the legal 
ombudsman. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97942273
Ref: DRN9794227