K822xcomplaint
Mr P  who is represented by a claims management company  says HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background 
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage.
I sent Mr P and HSBC  a provisional decision on 27 March 2019 to explain  why I think Mr Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.  And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me 
 as long as I received it by 17 April 2019.  But neither Mr P nor Tesco have anything else for 
me to consider, so I still think Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Ive explained my 
reasoning again below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
HSBC have no copies  of any paperwork from the sale. This isnt surprising nor is it unusual 
given how long ago the sale took place. Mr P says that HSBC didnt recommend the policy 
to him. HSBC dont  know if it did, but in its final response it accepts a recommendation to 
buy the policy may have  been made.  
HSBC dont know when  the policy was sold but say it commenced in October  1995.  Mr P 
has said that the PPI was sold at this time. So based on this I think  it was most likely  sold 
around that time. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
If I accept the policy was recommended to Mr P, HSBC  had to check it was right for him. 
Mr P says as he was self-employed  a business owner  the policy  wasnt right for him. Our 
adjudicator said they checked the policy and having  done that it did cover Mr P for his 
employment status, and it didnt make  it any harder form him to claim under the policy  if he 
was out of work. But I think  they were wrong  to say this.  
In order for Mr P to make a claim under the policy he wouldve had to show that:
a)You are claiming national insurance  credits  or income support; and
b)You stopped  work because you could not find enough work  to meet  all your 
reasonable business and living expenses;  and
c)You have notified the Inland Revenue that you have stopped trading and you have  
filed closing accounts. 
I think the third part of this term  you have notified the Inland Revenue that you have  
stopped trading and you have filed closing accounts   is onerous. In order to make an 
unemployment claim Mr P would actually have to stop working completely and file accounts  
that show hes closed  his business.  And I think its likely that this wouldve involved a number 
of things to be done  that would likely take a lot longer to complete for Mr P, and therefore it 
Ref: DRN91594212wouldve been harder  for him to make a claim in contrast to someone who was making a 
claim if employed.   
HSBC needed  to make sure that Mr P was aware of the implications of this term and advise 
him whether it made the policy  suitable  for his needs  or not. HSBC  say it wouldve explained 
all the essential  provisions of the cover and wouldve  drawn attention to any restrictions and 
exclusions applying to the policy. As Ive not been  given  any records of what  was said in the 
sale, I dont know whether they specifically explained the implications of the unemployment 
term.
So I think this term made  the policy unsuitable for Mr P and so I dont think HSBC shouldve  
recommended it to him at all  if it did.
HSBC couldve recommended the policy to Mr P with caution, highlighting the term and 
allowing Mr P to reach his own decision about whether he wanted it. But, as Ive said there  
isnt any information  to suggest that this happened and HSBC havent  said that it did.
On the other hand, if I accept that HSBC didnt recommend this policy, I still think  I should  
uphold this complaint.  I say that because HSBC  wouldve had to give Mr P enough 
information to make an informed choice. And given the policy  wouldve made it more difficult 
for him to make a claim for what is an important benefit  unemployment cover  I think its 
most likely that enough or clear information  wasnt likely presented to Mr P. 
So, I think if Mr P had the terms about  unemployment  explained to him properly, hed have 
decided it didnt offer him the cover  that he needed or wanted.  And I think  he wouldnt have 
bought the policy. So I think hes worse off as a result of HSBCs actions and as a result  Im 
upholding his complaint.
what the business should do to put things right
HSBC should  put Mr P in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and HSBC should:
Pay Mr P  the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year 
If Mr P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
If HSBC has already repaid Mr P any commission redress that relates to this PPI sale 
that sum can be deducted from the redress shown above 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Ref: DRN91594213Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9159421