K820x#14complaint
Miss B and Mr B complain that Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Miss B and Mr B in 2009 when 
they took out a further advance on their mortgage. The policy provided disablement and 
unemployment cover  for Miss B. 
Miss B and Mr B complain that they were encouraged  to take out the protection  and so 
Miss B felt obliged to have it.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B and Mr B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss B and Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss B and Mr Bs complaint.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide anything signed by Miss B and Mr B to show  how the 
PPI was taken out. And I dont know exactly what was discussed when they arranged it. But 
Miss B and Mr B had already held their mortgage for around  2 years without having PPI. So, 
I think they wouldve  been aware  that it was up to them to say if they wanted  to take it out 
with the further  advance.
Ive taken into account that Miss B told us she felt obliged to have the insurance. But I cant  
uphold this complaint just based on the way Miss B and Mr B say that Nationwide  sold the 
PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.  
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of years and 
I think Miss B and Mr B wouldve  been  aware of the risk of serious consequences  if 
mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. The PPI provided  a dependable means  of 
ensuring their monthly repayments were protected even if Miss B couldnt work.  So I can see 
why they mightve  wanted to take out PPI when  they borrowed extra, and so increased the 
amount of their mortgage, even if they hadnt wanted it up until that point.
It appears Miss B and Mr B mustve  decided they wanted the PPI after speaking  with the 
advisor. I say this because Nationwide wrote  to them shortly afterwards setting out details of 
the cover  theyd chosen showing  that Miss B was covered   including  what it would cost. 
This letter also included  information about their right to cancel the policy  if they didn't want  it. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that they decided  they did want  the benefits that PPI 
offered (including  the extra benefit they took out over and above  the amount needed to 
cover the mortgage  monthly repayments).  
Ref: DRN94158182Its completely understandable that Miss B and Mr B might  now have forgotten  some of 
these details. But, on balance, I think that Nationwide did make  it clear that it was open to 
Miss B and Mr B not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have it. And I find it was added  to 
the mortgage account when Miss B and Mr B chose  to take it out. 
Miss B and Mr B say Nationwide recommended them to take out the policy.  Nationwide  says 
it didnt. Miss B and Mr B recall arranging their further advance  and being told about  the PPI 
at a Nationwide branch.  Looking at what we know about how Nationwide sold policies in its 
branches at the time, I dont think its likely it gave advice or a personal  recommendation 
about PPI to Miss B and Mr B.  
But I can see this is central  to Miss B and Mr Bs concerns about the way they were sold this 
PPI. So Ive thought about whether my decision would be different  if Nationwide  did 
recommend them to take out the policy  and it makes no difference  to the outcome of this 
complaint. Even if Nationwide had recommended the PPI to Miss B and Mr B I think  PPI 
wouldve been suitable for them. And, overall,  I think Nationwide probably did give them  
enough clear information  so Miss B and Mr B could decide if the policy was right for them  - 
and clearer information  wouldnt  have made  a difference.  
Miss B was eligible for the cover. PPI wouldve  protected Miss B if she was disabled or too 
sick to work. It wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay she mightve been entitled  to through  
work. And the policy  wouldve  also protected Miss B if she lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. The policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months each time Miss B claimed 
successfully and she couldve  made repeated claims. So PPI provided long term protection  
for the mortgage.      
This would probably  have  been an important consideration for Miss B and Mr B because 
I think its likely that losing  Miss Bs income mightve  made  it difficult  for Mr B to make  the 
monthly repayments on their joint mortgage  if Miss B wasnt  working. Based on the 
information Miss B and Mr B have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think  that 
Miss B and Mr B couldve benefitted from having the policy and a PPI recommendation (if 
there was one) wouldve  been suitable.
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Miss B and Mr B about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it looks like Miss B wasnt affected by any of the main  
conditions limiting the policys benefits,  such as those affecting self-employed people or 
people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she couldve benefitted  from the full extent  of 
the cover  I think it unlikely Miss B and Mr B needed better information about the policys  
exclusions and limitations.
Its possible that there may have been some  shortcomings in the way this policy was sold to 
Miss B and Mr B. 
I dont know if Miss B and Mr B were  told the cost of the PPI when they took it out. But it was 
shown in the letter Nationwide sent them with policy information. So Miss B and Mr B were  
aware of the cost before they had to start paying  for the PPI  and they couldve cancelled it 
without losing out financially if they hadnt  wanted to pay for it. So it looks  like they were 
happy to pay to have PPI at the time. And as Miss B and Mr B also chose to buy an 
additional amount of benefit, it doesnt  look as if paying for it was a problem. The PPI seems 
to have been  affordable.  
Ref: DRN94158183So, looked  at overall, I think it unlikely  Miss B and Mr B wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  I think they would still have taken out the policy  for Miss B. 
This means  that I dont find that Miss B and Mr B have lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide mightve  done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9415818