K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank pic increased  his cash withdrawal  limit without notifying him
and hed like TSB to reinstate the lower  cash withdrawal limit he previously agreed.
background 
Mr D explained  that he had previously  agreed  a daily  cash  withdrawal  limit of £50 to help 
him manage  his finances  and as a preventative  measure  to help with his gambling  
problem.  Following  TSB upgrading  its systems,  Mr D says  TSB increased  his daily  cash  
withdrawal  limit to £500  and he says  that as a result  he was able to make  three  cash  
withdrawals  in excess  of £50 and this caused  financial  difficulties.  The cash  withdrawal  
limit was later lowered  to £300  and Mr D says  he wasn't  notified  of this.
Mr D made  an earlier  complaint  to TSB about  the increase  to the cash  withdrawal  fee. TSB 
apologised  and it explained  that the cash  withdrawal  limit was increased  for all customers  
to ensure  they were  able to access  their funds  following  TSB's  systems  upgrade.  It offered  
£50 to cover  Mr D's expenses  and £100  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused  and it 
invited  Mr D to contact  TSB if he wanted  his limit to be reduced.
TSB didn't  uphold  Mr D's current  complaint.  It issued  a final response  letter  in April 2019  
in which  it repeated  that it had increased  the daily  cash  withdrawal  limit for all its 
customers  to £500  to allow  them  to manage  their cash  flow during  TSB's  systems  
upgrade.  And it made  a business  decision  to later reduce  this to £300.  It said there  was 
no mass  communication  with regard  to the increase  or decrease  in withdrawal  limits  as 
this was a business  decision  to help all its customers.
TSB also said that although  Mr D's complaint  was that he was able to withdraw  more  
cash  than he would  have  liked,  it noted  that Mr D also made  electronic  transactions  and 
these  weren't  affected  by the increase  to the cash  withdrawal  limit.  It also explained  that 
Mr D had declined  TSB's  offer to refer  him to its customer  support  unit and other  
organisations  for further  help.
Unhappy  with TSB's  response  Mr D asked  our service  to look at his complaint.  Our
investigator  thought  TSB had given  Mr D incorrect  information  when  it said he could  contact  
TSB if he wanted  to reduce  his cash  withdrawal  limit - because  TSB later told our service  
that although  Mr D's limit would  in time be reduced  to the standard  limit for that type of 
account,  TSB confirmed  it wasn't  possible  to reduce  his limit to £50. Our investigator  thought  
TSB's  offer of £50 for expenses  and £100  for the inconvenience  caused  was fair based  on 
the impact  this had on Mr D but given  Mr D's circumstances  they thought  the increase  in the 
cash  withdrawal  limit might  not be suitable  for him. Our investigator  recommended  that 
should  Mr D decide  to bank  elsewhere,  TSB should  pay Mr D further  compensation  of £100.
Mr D disagrees  with the investigator's  view.  He doesn't  think  the additional  £100  
compensation  recommended  by the investigator  is sufficient  because  his account  is now 
overdrawn  and he's incurred  interest  and bank  charges.  Our investigator  explained  that the 
overdraft  and charges  were  down  to the way he managed  his account  and she couldn't  
comment  further  on this as this didn't  form part of Mr D's original  complaint  to TSB.
Ref: DRN91615992I recently  issued  my provisional  decision.  In that decision  I explained  why I thought  the 
complaint  should  be upheld  and the reasons  why I thought  the offer already  made  by TSB to 
pay £50 to cover  Mr Ds expenses  and £100  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused  was 
fair and reasonable.  In my provisional  decision  I said:
I must  firstly  explain  that this decision  only deals  with Mr D's complaint  about  
TSB changing  Mr D's cash  withdrawal  limit.  Mr D has also complained  about  
gambling  transactions  made  using  his credit  card but I understand  that this part of 
his complaint  has been  dealt  with as a separate  complaint.
Mr D also raised  concerns  about  his overdraft  and interest  and charges  
applied  but the investigator  has already  explained  that if Mr D remains  
unhappy  with this he will need  to raise  a new complaint  with TSB and give it 
the chance  to investigate  as these  issues  weren't  raised  as part of this current  
complaint.
Mr D's complaint  is about  the fairness  of TSB's  decision  to increase  his cash  
withdrawal  limit.  TSB made  a commercial  decision  to increase  - and later reduce  - the 
cash  withdrawal  limit for all of its customers,  not just Mr D. Our service  can't  interfere  
in commercial  decisions  made  by a financial  business.  But we can comment  on 
whether  a particular  customer  was treated  fairly  by this commercial  decision.
I can see that TSB told Mr D he could  ask for his cash  withdrawal  limit to be 
reduced.  TSB has since  told our service  that it can't  reduce  his cash  withdrawal  limit 
back  to £50. I don't  think  TSB treated  Mr D fairly  here but it's not generally  within  our 
powers  to require  TSB to change  its processes  and to require  it to reinstate  Mr D's 
£50 cash  withdrawal  limit but I will look at the impact  this had on Mr D.
Based  on the reasons  why Mr D says  he agreed  a cash  withdrawal  limit of £50 I can 
see that this account  may no longer  be appropriate  for him. However,  I don't  agree  
that it would  be appropriate  to compensate  Mr D with further  compensation  of £100  
as the investigator  suggested  should  Mr D decide  to change  banks.  I say this 
because  I can only consider  the actual  impact  this has had on Mr D. Here  Mr D's 
loss is speculative  because  I haven't  seen  anything  to suggest  he has actually  
changed  banks  or that he's incurred  a financial  loss as a result  of doing  so.
It's not in dispute  that Mr D's credit  limit was increased  from £50 to £500  and that it 
was later reduced  to £300  without  prior notification.  I've looked  at Mr D's statements  
and I can see he was able to make  the three  cash  withdrawals  he complained  to 
TSB about  and which  were  in excess  of the £50 cash  withdrawal  limit he'd 
previously  agreed.
I accept  that increasing  Mr D's cash  withdrawal  limit might  have  made  it easier  for 
him to withdraw  more  cash  than would  otherwise  have  been  the case,  but I'm not 
satisfied  that the situation  Mr D finds  himself  in is entirely  due to TSB increasing  the 
daily  cash  withdrawal  limit.  I say this because  even  if Mr D's £50 cash  withdrawal  
limit had remained  in place  I have  no way of knowing  whether  Mr D might  still have  
found  himself  in the same  position  - for example  by withdrawing  cash  in smaller  
amounts  over a greater  number  of days  or by making  a withdrawal  in branch.  In 
addition,  I can also see from Mr D's statement  that he made  a number  of electronic  
payments  as these  weren't  affected  by the increase  to the cash  withdrawal  limit.
Ref: DRN91615993Whilst  I'm sympathetic  to the position  Mr D finds  himself  in, for the reasons  I've 
explained  above  I think  the offer already  made  by TSB to pay £50 to cover  Mr D's 
expenses  and £100  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused  is fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  having  regard  to the impact  this had on Mr D.
For the above  reasons  my provisional  decision  was that TSB should  pay Mr D £150  to the 
extent  it had not already  done  so.
I invited  both parties  to  let me have  any further  submissions before I reached  a final
decision. Following  my provisional decision  TSB replied to confirm it had already paid £150 
into Mr Ds account in February 2019.  Mr D also replied to my provisional decision and 
confirmed that he would  like to accept it.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  TSBs offer of £150  was fair and 
reasonable. TSB has provided information to our service to confirm it credited Mr Ds 
account with £150 compensation in February 2019 so I do not require TSB to do anything 
further to settle  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint but I do not require TSB Bank plc to do 
anything further  to settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9161599