K822xcomplaint 
Mr B has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr B took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
While Mr B has told us that not all lifetime policies  are dramatically  affected  by individual 
claims made  by individual policyholders, these other policies are generally more  expensive 
from the outset. The premium can still increase significantly if other policyholders  with similar 
pets make  claims (even if the individual policyholder hasnt  made any).
Mr B has said RSA should have been  more transparent about how much  the premiums  were 
likely to increase, and I agree. RSA should have made the longer-term  cost implications 
clear to Mr B. It has accepted the information  it gave Mr B about  the policy wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. And RSA has offered to pay him £750 compensation for the trouble and 
upset hes been  caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B has told us hes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because he has had to cancel 
the policy due to the increased cost, and no other  insurer will cover  his pets  pre-existing  
conditions now. Mr B also feels  that RSA deliberately  increased  the cost of his policy  to 
discourage him from renewing it. Mr B feels RSA should cover his future  vet costs.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Bs policy is too high, he should have been charged less for the 
policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr Bs premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA that it should have offered him a lower premium  at 
renewal. Or that it should  cover  Mr Bs future vet bills.
 
I understand this situation has caused  Mr B a significant amount of distress  as, due to the 
increased cost, he has been unable to continue with the policy. 
Ref: DRN92864862But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr B the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr B having cover for ongoing conditions  at a fixed  or capped premium  this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. 
Mr B has also mentioned concerns that high commission amounts could have played a part 
in his premium seeing  such a significant  increase. Ive thought about this, but from what  I 
can see it was the claims  history that had the biggest impact on Mr Bs premium increase.
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr B has experienced. 
It is a significant award and I think it fairly  compensates Mr B for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr B £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9286486