K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a store card.  He applied for 
the store card and PPI policy with a leaflet he was given to fill in.
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a production  team  leader and had been  working  there for 
a little over three years. He has told us his sick pay or redundancy pay was worth more  than 
six but less then twelve months pay. He has said he was entitled  to at least  six months  full 
sick pay. He has also said he was entitled to at least 12 months  or more  redundancy pay. 
But bearing in mind Mr Ps length  of service, what  I have  doesnt persuade me that its likely  
his redundancy  entitlement was worth as much  as 12 months or more of his full pay. Aside 
from his work benefits, Mr P has told us he didnt have any other means  of repaying his store 
card if he couldnt work. He has also told us he was in good health at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment, and also had life cover, subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mr Ps store card balance in the 
event of him being  unable  to work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. The life cover 
would, subject to its terms, clear the card balance on death.
The policy also provided Purchase Protection  and Price  Protection. Mr P hasnt complained  
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision.
The policy at the time cost £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium 
had to carry on being paid during a successful claim  and it did attract  interest.
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr Ps representative says:
FICL  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt have taken out 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN99940272The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  FICL should have told Mr P about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means FICL should  have  explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN99940273The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller   its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, FICL was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not FICL  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of FICL. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Ps case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so FICL  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN99940274Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether FICL gave  Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and FICL, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr P know he had a choice?
FICL had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr P says he had no interest  in the 
PPl and wouldnt have  had it, but it was included as part of the package with his card.  But 
Mr Ps credit  agreement had a separate space to sign in if the PPI was wanted and Mr P 
signed in this space. Also nothing above the space or elsewhere on the credit  agreement 
said the PPI had to be taken  or said Mr P had to sign in the space for it if he didnt want  it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr P knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did FICL provide  advice?
FICL says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr P hasnt said FICL did provide advice. 
Taking all this into account, Im persuaded that FICL didnt provide advice. 
This means  FICL didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr P. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr P to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
FICL has provided us with Mr Ps credit agreement   showing that PPI had been selected. 
Ive also seen a copy of terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - 
applied to policies  like Mr Ps.
Looking at the information provided to Mr P at the time,  I dont think FICL gave Mr P the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN99940275This sale took place  when  Mr P was given a leaflet to fill in. I dont know what FICL told Mr P 
about the PPI but I think its unlikely he would have agreed to take it without at least having a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mr P would have  thought it was free. Also the credit agreement  
referred to the PPI as costing 1p for every pound of the monthly balance and, above where 
Mr P signed  for the PPI, said: Please  debit my Account with the relevant monthly  premium .
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ps attention the important  information   i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr P, including the need to maintain premiums  during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  its unlikely FICL  adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ps representative  considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on FICL. 
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Mr P? To what extent  did Mr P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P suffered 
Ref: DRN99940276loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr P would have 
still taken out the policy,  had FICL done things properly. 
Mr P says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr P had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr P thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr P ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that FICL didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr P didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mr P knew  about or should  have 
known about or for which he had been  advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 
12 months before the policy start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim Mr P be stopped from doing his 
own job, or any similar job, and any paid work which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mr P pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P didnt  have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think he still had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Ref: DRN99940277I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr P 
from taking out the policy,  Mr P, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which his education, experience  or 
training might reasonably qualify him to do, it might have played  into his thinking about what  
to do. And I accept  it may have given him pause for thought  although given Mr Ps 
circumstances, on balance, I think he would  still have  been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr P would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy couldve provided  a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and taking into account his lack of 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that he would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred.
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN99940278That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude that FICL  should pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr P thinks FICL  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
FICLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why FICL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  FICL gave  Mr P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find FICL negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr P and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that FICL had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9994027