K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander  in 1993. At the same time they bought a 
PPI policy  which would  have covered  their mortgage repayments for up to three years at a 
time if Mr C was too sick to work, and for up to a year at a time if Mr C was made 
involuntarily redundant.
Mr and Mrs C say they were led to believe that they wouldnt get their mortgage if they didnt 
buy the PPI. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs C say they were advised [they]  needed PPI or [they]  would struggle to get the 
finances for [their] new home.
Santander say that taking  PPI wouldnt have made  a difference  to their lending  decision. 
Santander has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application. There is a separate  
section for PPI which recommends taking it and offers  a clear choice about it. There  is a tick 
in the box selecting the PPI and Mr and Mrs C have signed the form. They  could have left 
this section blank  or ticked no. There is no suggestion on the form that taking PPI would in 
any way influence the lending decision.  
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs C bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about it.
Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C a personal  recommendation  about  the PPI. So it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for them. Looking  at Mr Cs circumstances  at the 
time (as it was Mr C who the policy covered) I think that it was suitable. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt  have  been affected  by any of the terms 
which might  have  made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim  such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr C had only a small amount of contractual sick pay  less than three months of full 
pay. The policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for considerably 
longer  up to three years  at a time;
I dont know whether Mr C had a contractual redundancy entitlement. But, again, the 
redundancy cover would have paid out in addition to this and for up to a year at a 
time;
Ref: DRN92280752Mr and Mrs C say they had some savings at the time of sale which  they could have 
used if Mr C wasnt working.  They  think it was about £20,000. They havent been 
able to provide  any evidence  of this, although theyve provided evidence of their 
savings some 15 years later. But in any case, as previously explained, the policy  
would have paid out in addition  to their existing means, leaving  their savings 
available for other uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was flexible because it could be amended or cancelled  at any time.  
I havent seen  anything to suggest the premiums  were  unaffordable for Mr and Mrs 
C.
Santander also had a duty to ensure Mr and Mrs C had all the information they needed  to 
make their decision. Its possible Mr and Mrs C didnt get all the information they needed.  
But I dont think more,  or better, information  would have made a difference to their decision 
to buy the policy because it was suitable for their needs in the way Ive described above.
Santander initially told this service that the premiums for Mr and Mrs Cs policy  were  £9 a 
month. This was clearly a mistake as the premiums  were initially  £33 a month, and 
Santander has provided evidence to show that. Mr C disputed  this and said he thought  they 
were much higher  possibly as much  as £85 a month although I havent seen anything to 
support this. Mr C has since provided  evidence  that some years later the premiums  were 
about £39. I think  this is correct and represents  a reasonable increase in cost over the years.  
But Santanders error has caused  Mr and Mrs C to question some  compensation that 
Santander did give them  in relation  to commission they paid that was part of the premiums. 
That compensation was offered before the complaint about mis-selling  was brought to this 
service. We asked Santander whether this mistake over the initial  premiums  affected the 
commission compensation it paid. Santander explained that it didnt. Santander  only had to 
pay compensation for the period when the commission rate was over 50% and this didnt 
happen until 2004, which may explain why Mr and Mrs C think they may have been owed 
more. So, I am satisfied the calculation is correct. 
In summary,  I dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out as a result of anything Santander might have 
done worong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows  that Santander UK Plc doesnt  
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9228075