K822xcomplaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance  Company  Limited  has 
handled his claim  on his European breakdown cover. Hes also unhappy  it initially denied 
liability for damage that was caused  to his motorhome when it was recovered  to the UK.
Mr N wants compensation for his and his wifes distress and inconvenience,  for the loss of 
use of his motorhome  and for his loss of earnings.
background 
In my provisional decision of 7 January  2019  (a copy of which  I attach to this final decision), I 
explained why I intended to uphold  Mr Ns complaint.
DAS has accepted my provisional decision. Mr N has rejected it. He doesnt  think  Ive fully 
considered the negligence  and consequential  damage to his motorhome  he says his 
experiences with DAS have caused.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr N Ive read all the correspondence on his case file and thought about 
all the arguments  hes made, including those  hes made in response  to my provisional 
decision. But they dont change my views  on this complaint.
So, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ns complaint in part. But, 
for the reasons I gave  in that decision, I dont uphold it to the extent  Mr N would like me to.
In my provisional decision,  I said I thought  it was right DAS agreed to pay Mr Ns insurers for 
the repairs to his motorhome because of the additional damage  its agents caused. So I think  
that deals with Mr Ns concern  about the consequential damage to his motorhome. 
In his most  recent correspondence with us, Mr N says his motorhome has lost value. Of 
course, capital assets depreciate over time but, since Mr Ns motorhome has been repaired 
and DAS has agreed to pay the insurers for the repairs, I dont  think there is anything more I 
can fairly and reasonably  direct DAS to do. As Ive mentioned in my provisional  decision, 
where we think a business has done something wrong, our role is, as far as possible, to put 
a consumer in the position  he or she wouldve been in had everything  gone as it should.  I 
think that, in agreeing to pay to repair the additional  damage, DAS has done that
In my provisional decision,  I said I thought  it was fair and reasonable to award  Mr N £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience  DASs  handling  of his claim for the additional damage to his 
motorhome has caused him. This award reflects the very real distress I could see the 
situation had caused Mr N, as well as the considerable inconvenience he had in arranging 
the repairs, including going to the garage  the motorhome had been recovered  to. But, as I 
said in my provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr N 
lost three  weeks of earnings, at a cost of £3,000, as a direct and foreseeable consequence 
of having to sort out the problems with his motorhome.
Ref: DRN92172322Mr N says hes still paying higher premiums  for his car insurance. But, when he gets the 
letter from DAS that Im directing it to write explaining the circumstances in which  he made 
the claim,  I would expect  his insurance  premiums  to reduce. And if he shows the letter  to his 
current insurers, Id hope hed get a refund on his current premium.
Mr N has recently  said hes had an invoice  from the vehicle repairers. As it has already 
agreed to do, DAS should ensure it has reimbursed Mr Ns motor insurer  for the cost of 
repairing the damage caused  by its agents.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 7 January 2019, I uphold  
Mr Ns complaint and direct DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company  Limited  to:
Pay Mr N £400 for the distress  and inconvenience its handling of his breakdown 
recovery caused. 
Pay Mr N £400 for the distress  and inconvenience its handling of his claim for the 
subsequent damage  to his motorhome has caused him.
Pay Mr N £100 for his out-of-pocket  expenses.
Write  Mr N a letter setting out the background to his breakdown and explaining that it 
has accepted  liability for the damage which he claimed for on his motor insurance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92172323COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 7 JANUARY 2019
complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has handled  his 
claim on his European breakdown cover.  Hes also unhappy it initially denied liability for damage that 
was caused to his motorhome when it was recovered  to the UK.
Mr N wants  compensation  for his and his wifes distress and inconvenience, for the loss of use of his 
motorhome and for his loss of earnings.
Mr Ns breakdown policy was underwritten  by DAS. The policy was administered by a third party   
and its this third party Mr N has had most contact with. But because this complaint is about  Mr Ns 
claim under  the policy,  it has been set up against DAS and thats why Ill refer to DAS throughout  this 
decision. 
background
In July 2018  Mr Ns motorhome broke down  while  he and his wife were  travelling in it outside the UK. 
It took more than four hours for DAS (through  its European agents) to arrive  at the scene. Because  
the vehicle couldnt  be repaired at the roadside, it was recovered to a local garage.  And by the time 
this happened, the garage had closed  for the evening. So Mr N and his wife spent  the night in their 
motorhome near the garage.
The following morning,  it became  clear  the local garage and others in the area couldnt  carry  out the 
repairs the motorhome needed for around two weeks. So it was decided  Mr N and his wife would 
return home to the UK immediately using a hire car DAS arranged for them while it (through its 
agents) recovered their motorhome separately. 
On the same day, there was confusion between Mr N and DAS about arrangements for the hire car  
including whether  or where it might have had to be swapped as Mr and Mrs N completed their journey 
back to the UK through more than one country. Because the hire period  for the car was short, it 
seems Mr N had to rearrange  his ferry crossings to make it back to the UK in time. And when he did 
try to return the car, he says the address was wrong and he ended up having  to return it to another  
address in another city.
A week or so after the breakdown, Mr Ns motorhome  was recovered to a garage he had selected to 
carry out the repairs needed. But the motorhome had sustained additional  damage between  the time 
Mr N left it and its return to the UK. Initially, DAS refused  to accept liability for the damage,  so Mr N 
claimed on his motor  insurance. DAS has subsequently agreed its agents  were  responsible for the 
damage and says it will reimburse Mr Ns insurers  for the costs of the additional repairs.
DAS has offered Mr N £120 in compensation  £50 for his calls and £70 for the distress and 
inconvenience its delays  in handling the recovery caused Mr N and his wife. Mr N doesnt think  this is 
adequate compensation for his and his wifes  distress and inconvenience  and for the losses he says 
DAS has caused him. So Mr N complained  to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ns complaint upheld it. He thought DAS should pay Mr N:
£150  for the undue delay in recovering  his motorhome.  
£50 for the inconvenience of Mr N having to rearrange  his ferry bookings.
£250  for its delays in accepting  liability  for the subsequent  damage to the motorhome and Mr 
Ns loss of use of his motorhome (this was because parts  for the necessary  repairs took 
some time to source and so the motorhome  was off the road for many weeks).
£150  for Mr Ns inconvenience and call costs throughout the process.
Ref: DRN92172324Mr N isnt happy with our investigators  recommendations. He would like to be compensated for:
The cost of seven weeks hire of a motorhome. He says this is the time he wouldve used his 
motorhome if it hadnt  been in for subsequent repairs  following the additional damage. He 
estimates this cost at £4,900.
The cost of five years  increased premiums in his motor insurance because  of the claim on his 
policy for the subsequent repairs.  He estimates this cost at £1,500.
Loss of earnings  for five days which Mr N, who says hes self-employed, says hes spent 
trying to resolve his claim and his complaint.  He estimates  this cost at £1,000.
Loss of earnings  for a further 10 days because Mr N has been too distressed to work. He 
estimates this cost at £2,000.
Incidental costs  for ferry crossing surcharges, phone calls and correspondence  of £100.
Because of this, Mr Ns complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Like the investigator who looked at Mr Ns complaint, I intend to uphold  it. But, for some aspects of Mr 
Ns complaint, my reasons are different from our investigators and in other areas Id like to explain my 
reasoning in some detail.  Because of this, its only fair to give   Mr N and DAS a chance to respond to 
what I say.
And Id like to say at the outset that, where we think  a business has done something wrong, our role is 
to put a consumer in the position  he or she wouldve been in if everything had gone as it shouldve.  
There isnt a precise  formula for doing this. But we look carefully at how the particular person  
complaining has been affected  by what went  wrong. This includes considering what distress and 
inconvenience theyve  been  caused.  Our awards  must, though, be fair and reasonable taking into 
account the facts of the particular case. And we arent here to penalise a business  for things it did 
wrong.
Looking at Mr Ns complaint, its clear to me a lot went wrong immediately after his motorhome broke 
down. A breakdown is always going to be stressful but, from what  Mr N says and from call records 
DAS has given us, the delays and confusion involved in the recovery of his motorhome  added 
considerably to Mr Ns stress. 
To summarise (and this is very much a summary), first there was the delay in the initial recovery to 
the local garage,  then there was some delay and confusion about  whether  the motorhome could  be 
repaired locally, then there was confusion about the hire car and ferry crossings, then it seems Mr N 
was given  the wrong UK address to return the hire car to. Its clear  Mr N had concerns  about  whether  
his motorhome would be secure if he left it behind. And, although  he asked to speak to a more senior  
staff member more than once because of his concerns at this time, this didnt happen. In DAS call 
notes, Mr N is variously described as being very stressed , feeling unsafe , concerned , unhappy , 
dissatisfied  and distressed .
So Im left in no doubt that DASs handling of Mr Ns breakdown over those first two days added  
significantly to the stress a breakdown will inevitably cause anyone. And I think an award of £400 for 
the additional distress and inconvenience this caused Mr and Mrs N is fair and reasonable. I also 
understand Mr N incurred  some out of pocket expenses   for things  like call costs and ferry 
surcharges. I think its fair and reasonable to award Mr N £100 for these expenses. 
I think  Mr N had more  distress subsequently when (a) his motorhome was returned to the UK with 
additional damage and (b) DAS refused  to accept liability for that damage.  He also had the 
inconvenience of having to arrange the additional repairs, deal with DAS about the disputed liability 
and, in the end, claim on his motor insurance for the cost of the repairs.
Ref: DRN92172325DAS has subsequently agreed to reimburse  Mr Ns motor insurer for the cost of repairing damage 
caused by its agents. I think it was right to do this. But I dont  intend to award Mr N £1,500 for the 
potential increases to his motor insurance  premiums  over the next five years because  of the claim he 
made that he shouldnt have had to make.  I do, though, intend to direct DAS to write to Mr N 
explaining the background and that it has accepted liability for the damage that gave rise to the claim. 
This should mean that Mr Ns insurance record shows he wasnt at fault for the claim.  I cant be 
certain if Mr Ns insurance  premium will then be affected  at all by this non-fault  claim. However,  
overall, to compensate Mr N for this, and for the additional distress and inconvenience hes had due 
to the damage DASs agents  caused, and its delay  in agreeing to accept liability, I think DAS should 
pay Mr N a further £400  compensation.  
Mr N wants  compensation  of £4,900 for the loss of use of his motorhome over the summer. I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to award Mr N this compensation. Thats  because  I havent seen 
any evidence Mr N either hired a motorhome over this period or had to cancel  plans because his own 
motorhome wasnt available. So I cant see hes suffered an actual loss that I can reasonably ask 
DAS to compensate  him for  bearing  in mind our approach to compensation  when things  go wrong, 
as Ive already outlined  above. I have also taken into account the sums Ive already  said I intend to 
award Mr N for the distress and inconvenience DASs actions have  caused him. 
Mr N also wants compensation  of £3,000 for loss of earnings. Mr Ns breakdown policy excludes  
liability for loss of earnings. And, in any case, I havent  seen anything  to show      Mr Ns lost earning 
opportunities as a direct consequence of the claim. I appreciate Mr N has found the issues arising 
from the original vehicle breakdown  and the subsequent difficulties hes had both upsetting and 
inconvenient. However, overall I dont think its reasonable to conclude  this wouldve led directly to Mr 
N suffering a loss of earnings. Ive explained why in my view its reasonable for DAS to compensate 
Mr N for the distress and inconvenience its caused  him, but I dont intend to award  any amount in 
relation to loss of earnings.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint and to direct DAS Legal Expenses  
Insurance Company  Limited to:
Pay Mr N £400 for the distress and inconvenience  its handling of his breakdown recovery  
caused. 
Pay Mr N £400 for the distress and inconvenience  its handling of his claim for the subsequent 
damage to his motorhome  has caused  him.
Pay Mr N £100 for his out-of-pocket expenses.
Write Mr N a letter  explaining the background to his breakdown and that it has accepted 
liability for the damage which he claimed for on his motor insurance.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9217232