K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say that because The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc gave  them an incorrect 
redemption figure  they borrowed more than they need to at a higher rate of interest than they 
could have had.
background
Mr and Mrs A had a mortgage with RBS and a personal guarantee for a business loan which  
was unsecured. Mr and Mrs A wanted  to remortgage their property and asked RBS for a 
redemption figure  in December 2018.  RBSs redemption statement  included a balance  of 
£41,439 for the guarantee.  After Mr and Mrs A complained RBS corrected the redemption 
statement referring to the mortgage balance only of £140,048.52. In March 2019 Mr and Mrs 
As solicitor asked for a further  redemption statement. RBS sent one which included a figure 
of £30,000 which was an agreed settlement figure for discharging  the personal guarantee. 
So, Mr and Mrs As solicitor sent RBS £170,222 of which  RBS returned £30,40687 to Mr and 
Mrs As account as it wasnt required to discharge  the mortgage.  RBS says that it made a 
number of mistakes and awarded  Mr and Mrs A compensation of £350.
Our investigator whilst  acknowledging that RBS had made mistakes, though that the amount 
offered in compensation was appropriate  and didnt recommend  that this complaint should 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs A disagreed saying  in summary that because of RBSs mistakes  they 
had to take out a loan at a much higher rate of interest than if they had been  able to take out 
a loan for the proper mortgage  balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A say that they have suffered a financial loss because if they didnt have to apply 
for a mortgage for the extra £30,000 they would  have  had access to a more favourable 
interest rate. That may well be the case but Im not convinced  that it was RBSs fault that 
they applied for the extra  £30,000.  It seems  that on 14 December 2018  that RBS sent out a 
redemption statement for £181,354.34 looking Mr and Mrs A to redeem the mortgage and 
the personal guarantee. Mr and Mrs A phoned RBS and were  told that the personal 
guarantee was secured as a second  charge on their property, Mr and Mrs A were rightly 
convinced that this wasnt the case and made  a complaint. 
At that stage RBS seems to have  issued a revised  redemption statement dated 19 
December 2018,  without the balance  on the guarantee, for £140,048.52.  RBS say that it 
then investigated  and responded at the end of January saying I can confirm  that the 
information was incorrect and the bank  does not hold a second charge on your property
Its unfortunate that RBS issued at least one further  incorrect redemption statement but it 
would seem to me to be clear from the December redemption statement and from the 
January letter that if Mr and Mrs A wanted to reportage to clear the mortgage balance  only,  
that they needed to pay off about  £140,000.  RBS had given them incorrect  information but 
from December/January onwards Mr and Mrs A knew what the correct  position was and any 
mortgage application would have been made  with that knowledge. So, as Mr and Mrs A 
Ref: DRN94553192knew what the correct  position was I cant fairly say that RBSs errors should have led them  
to apply for a mortgage greater than they needed.  I have noted in reading through the 
evidence that there  are elements of poor service  by RBS for which  Mr and Mrs A should  be 
compensated and I consider that  the amounts offered by RBS in the letters they sent Mr 
and Mrs A  seems fair. But I dont believe that RBS caused Mr and Mrs A financial loss and 
so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9455319