K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Virgin Money  plc delayed transferring his ISA to another  provider.
 
background 
Mr K made arrangements for Virgin to transfer his ISA on 24 December 2018 when it 
matured. But Virgin didnt  transfer it until 27 December  2018.
The new ISA provider  said itd sent an Accept and Ready message electronically to Virgin 
on 24 December. Virgin said it received the transfer  request on 24 December but it didnt 
receive the ready for payment  notification until 27 December. In any event it said HMRC  
guidelines require  a Cash ISA Transfer to be completed within  15 working  days  and it was 
well within  the timescales. It said it would backdate  the difference  in interest earned 
between the two accounts to 24 December as a gesture  of goodwill. This totalled £5.42.
Mr K said this wasnt enough. He said Virgin should  compensate him for having to negotiate 
with the other provider  and Virgin and for having  to refer his complaint to this Service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Virgin had done anything wrong because had transferred the ISA 
within the regulatory required timeframe.
Mr K didnt accept this. He said Virgin had lied and had put him to a considerable 
inconvenience. And he said it was the corrupt treatment by the entire finance industry that 
he found objectionable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr K feels about this so I know he will be disappointed with my 
decision. But I cant see Virgin has done anything wrong.
Mr Ks ISA matured on 24 December 2018. Virgin  sent it to the new provider on 27 
December. The 25 and 26 December were  non working days. So Virgin was well within  the 
regulatory guidelines. As a gesture of good  will it offered to pay him £5.42 which was the 
difference in interest. That offer is still open to him. I think thats fair and reasonable and so 
Im not going  to ask it to pay Mr K any more compensation. If Mr K would like to accept 
Virgins offer the adjudicator will help him to do so.
We are not the regulator of the banks. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. So I 
cant respond to Mr Ks comment about  the banking industry. Our role is to see if something 
has gone wrong that has caused a consumer to lose out. And as Ive already said, I dont 
think Virgin has done anything wrong. And I cant see any evidence  that its lied to Mr K.
Ref: DRN91055772my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9105577