K821x#15complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) have refused to 
consider a claim they made to them  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(section 75). They also say that Nationwides handling of their claim has been  deficient.
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that the claim relates to a single item to which the supplier 
has attached a cash price  thats more than £100  but no more than £30,000.
Nationwide think the costs of the bathrooms,  kitchen and bedrooms should  be taken as one 
purchase and, as that would mean  their value exceeds £30,000, a claim under section 75 is 
not possible. I disagree. 
I understand that the payment for the pieces of work  was made together  but I dont think it 
would be fair to suggest this means  that all of the work  was a single item.
I say that because I can see that each area was quoted for separately and on separate days. 
Separate meetings were held to discuss each  piece of work. I think  its fair to say that each 
area of work was independent of the other and one or more could have been commissioned  
without any impact on price. 
Given that the work was being commissioned from one supplier I dont  think  it was unusual  
for Mr and Mrs A to pay for the individual  elements  under one payment. That would seem  
the sensible approach. But I dont think it suggests  the work should  be treated as one item.
Ref: DRN94138062In those circumstances I think Nationwide were wrong not to consider Mr and Mrs As 
section 75 complaint. The investigator  was of the view that Nationwide should now consider 
the complaint  so I would  agree that they should now do so. I make  no further observations  
about the merits of the claim but if Mr A and Mrs A are dissatisfied with Nationwides 
assessment of it they have the right to refer it to this service if any dispute  remains  
unresolved.
For clarity,  the investigator has explained  that he cant consider the total time the complaint 
has taken and whether  thats been  reasonable. Hes explained that hed expect Nationwide  
to do that when completing  their review of the section 75 claim.
Hes also explained that he hasnt considered whether Nationwide should provide any 
compensation because they have failed to consider the claim Mr A and Mrs A made  to them.  
So, Ill not review  that and will expect Nationwide to consider it within  the scope of the 
section 75 claim theyre now reviewing. I make no findings and give no guidance on what  
should be decided  here.
The investigator did consider whether the £150  compensation Nationwide  provided because  
of delays responding to Mr A and Mrs As initial concerns was sufficient. He thought it wasnt 
and Id agree. Mr A and Mrs A provided a considerable amount of evidence for Nationwide to 
consider but it took a substantial amount of time before they did review  it and in the 
meantime Mr A had to chase them. I think, in the circumstances, Nationwide should increase 
the compensation to £250 to reflect  the distress and inconvenience  caused.
I can see that Nationwide have also provided £100 to Mr A and Mrs A because they accept 
they didnt process  their Data Access Request (DAR) correctly. That payment seems 
reasonable to compensate Mr A and Mrs A for them not following the correct procedure. Im 
not able to consider what was supplied under the DAR as thats the remit of the Information  
Commissioners Office  who I believe Mr A and Mrs A have already consulted.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Nationwide Building 
Society to:
review Mr A and Mrs As section  75 claim,  accepting it relates to a single item within 
the financial parameters required under the Act;
pay Mr A and Mrs A £250  to compensate them  for the delay in the initial  response to 
their claim submission.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9413806