K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss M applied for the credit card and the PPI using a postal application form. She 
completed the form and sent it back to Capital One. Ive seen a copy  of the application form. 
I can see there is a section about PPI. Within the section  is the following statement, Please 
enrol me in Capital  Ones Payment Protection Scheme. Beside this statement are two 
boxes. One is marked  Yes and the other No. There is a tick in the Yes box and the No 
box is left blank.
The PPI remained on the account until it was cancelled in 2009. During this time the 
premiums wouldve appeared on Miss Ms monthly statements. If Miss M hadnt wanted the 
PPI Id expect her to have  questioned  it at an early stage, but Ive seen  no evidence that she 
did.
Overall I think  Capital  One made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand how she may not recall  this after so many 
years.
As it was a postal application I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Miss M so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss M got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time of the sale.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Miss M off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
Ref: DRN94974412But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell   
Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said. Miss M has told us her employer wouldve 
paid her some sick pay if she became too unwell to work. But the PPI sold to her by Capital 
One couldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 months per 
claim. And itd also pay a monthly benefit  if Miss M had lost her job. So I still think Miss M 
wouldve likely valued the additional security the PPI policy gave her.
In summary  I think the PPI was presented to Miss M as optional  and I think  she chose to 
take it out. And even if Capital One had given Miss M all the clear information  about the 
policy that it should have, I still think she wouldve gone ahead and bought it.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9497441