K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that a car he acquired  on a conditional sale agreement through  Close
Brothers Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In January 2018, Mr G acquired a used car supplied through a conditional sale agreement
with Close  Brothers. The car was around 11 years old and had travelled around 81,000
miles. The cash price of the car was £10,995. Mr G part exchanged his old car for £1,100,
paid a £500 deposit and the rest was financed by the conditional sale agreement over a term
of 48 months.
In early March, the car had a problem with the alternator and had to be recovered to a
garage. After  the garage assessed the car they determined that it wasnt  a repair  they could
fix, so the car was moved  to another garage. This time the repair  was completed and Mr G
got the car back  at the end of March. Most of the cost of the repair  was covered by the
warranty but there was a short fall of £94.79 that Mr G says he paid.
Mr G says he then had further issues with the car. One day after having had the car back
from the garage, he found there was a burning  smell and noise coming from the brakes. A
mobile mechanic  was called and confirmed that the calliper had seized and the brake pads
were worn  down to the metal.  So the brake discs, callipers and pads were replaced  by a
garage. As the brake disc and calliper repairs were not covered under the warranty,  Mr G
paid some of the cost.  Mr G has also said that the issue with the brakes had been noted on
the MOT certificate as an advisory  and on the pre-sale checklist.
Mr G says the car then broke down again,  on the 7 April. This time the car had a fuel tank issue.  
Total cost for that repair was £575 which the garage  and warranty company agreed to fund.
In total Mr G says he has paid around £530  towards the repairs.
After firstly  discussing  the issues with the car to the dealer it was purchased from, Mr G
raised a complaint with Close Brothers  as he said the damage  was there when  he bought
the car. Mr G also complained that the car should  have had a pre-delivery inspection that
would have picked  these issues up. He went on to say that Close  Brothers have sent him to
his warranty company each time he contacted them with an issue, but the policy  didnt cover
all damage- so hes now out of pocket. Overall  in the 10 weeks that he owned the car, Mr G
says he wasnt able to use it for four of them.
After contacting Close Brothers several times to ask for a settlement figure, Mr G says he 
lost faith in the safety of the car and decided to part exchange it for a slightly  newer car - but 
through a different dealer. This left him with a shortfall on the finance  due to the part 
exchange value  offered.  Mr G asked  Close  Brothers  to reimburse him for the lost money.
Close Brothers looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold it. It said that there was no
evidence that the faults  were present at the point of sale. So Mr G brought the complaint to
our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  He said that,
although the car was used and had covered  a large mileage, he found it likely the faults  were
present at the point of sale  particularly  given the number of different issues.
Ref: DRN98624472Close Brothers responded to the view.  It said 
An amber condition on the pre-sale checklist is not a failure   in relation to the brake pads;
It had no evidence  to show the dealer was liable  for the repairs;
It cant be held liable for delays by a third party garage; and
It cant be held liable for the time taken  to repair every fault a consumer  has whilst they 
own the car.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 February  2020.  This is what  I said-  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close brothers supplied  Mr G with the car under  the conditional sale agreement it had with
him. Under  this type of agreement, Close Brothers is the supplier of the goods and is
responsible for any complaints about  its quality. In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive
taken into consideration  amongst  other things  the relevant law and in particular the
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The relevant  legislation, namely the CRA, implied  a term into the contract that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. Whats satisfactory  is measured by what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and other 
relevant circumstances  which I think would include things like the age and mileage of the car.
The car was around  eleven years old and had done  around 81,000  miles.  And I think a 
reasonable person might  expect there to be some  wear  and tear on a car of that age 
and mileage.
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
The first issue Mr G experienced was the failing of the alternator. This was at the beginning
of March, around a month after the purchase. I understand  Mr G has said that he thinks this
fault was present when the car was sold, but Im not convinced  this means the car was of
unsatisfactory quality.  Ill explain  why.
Failure of an alternator is frequently sudden, rather than gradual  so you could have  a perfectly 
functional alternator  one day, and a dead one the next.  Alternators also have an unpredictable
life span, some  can last the lifetime of the car, others can fail much earlier through wear and tear.
Given that this is a part that can fail through wear and tear and at any point, and given  the age
and mileage of the car, even if I was satisfied the part was developing a fault at the point of sale,
I dont  find this wouldnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was acquired.
When Mr G complained about the alternator issue, he was directed to the warranty company. Im
satisfied this was the correct thing to do, as its likely the garage  would have charged him for the
full price of the repair  had it been carried out by them.
Ref: DRN98624473Mr G has said that when  he took the car into the first garage, they were unable to fix the 
problem  due to the complexity of the issue. The car was then moved  to another  garage 
who completed the repair. I understand this must have been  frustrating for Mr G, but
unfortunately, I can only look at the actions of Close Brothers in this complaint and the repair
was arranged by the warranty company. I also dont find it unreasonable  that Close  Brothers
referred Mr G to the warranty company.
When the second fault occurred in April 2018, Mr G emailed the dealer and asked to reject
the car. At this point  the car was in an independent garage and had an issue with the brake
pads and callipers. The garage  again  directed Mr G back  to the warranty company.
Although Mr G says the wear on the brake pads was highlighted in the MOT check,  it was as
an advisory rather than a fail. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that
the brake pads  needed to be replaced when the car was supplied  to Mr G - and he was
aware when he bought  the car that they would need  replacing in the near future .The brake
pads are also a wear and tear item for which  given  the age and mileage of the car - the user
of the car is responsible. And I dont think that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require
Close Brothers to pay for the cars brake  pads and callipers to be replaced,  as this wouldnt
have made  the car of unsatisfactory  quality.
On 7 April 2018  the car suffered a further failure. This was due to broken fuel sender unit in
the fuel tank. Although Im satisfied this part wouldnt come  under a wear and tear item, the
full cost of the repair was met by the warranty company and the dealership. As this was the
first issue  with this part, under the CRA rights given to the consumer, the garage would get
an opportunity to fix the broken part. As this was done, Im satisfied Close  Brothers dont
need to do any more.
should Mr G have been allowed to reject the car?
The CRA gives a consumer a short-term right to reject a car if a fault occurs within 30 days
of receiving it and the cars deemed  of unsatisfactory quality. I can see Mr G asked  to reject
the car outside  of this timescale.  Im satisfied only the fuel sender fault would be relevant to
this term, as it doesnt come under a wear  and tear item. As it was outside  of the 30 days,
the business gets an opportunity to fix the fault,  which was done here. So I dont find Mr G
would have been eligible  to reject the car, when he raised the three  faults.
At the end of April Mr G part exchanged the car, as he said hed lost faith in it. I know this will
disappoint Mr G, but this was his choice to do so. And it follows that I dont find Close
Brothers responsible  for the shortfall that Mr G got in the value of the trade in value.
Although Mr G had experience a number of issues, he had bought a car that was 11 years
old and had covered quite  a high mileage.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Close brothers had nothing to add
Mr G said that he thinks  some  financial  compensation is due to the length of time without a 
vehicle and the worry and distress of the vehicle breaking down. 
Ref: DRN98624474My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  - Including the points raised  by Mr G, and I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings. 
As Ive not found the first two faults to mean the car was of unsatisfactory  quality, I dont find 
any compensation due. 
Im satisfied the third fault was resolved in a reasonable amount of time, I can see the car 
went in for repair  around the 10 April and was traded in by Mr G on 21 April. So I dont find 
any compensation due here either.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9862447