K822xcomplaint 
Ms D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy each  year and it will not pay for her pets  condition  once 
the policy limit has been reached.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms D took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, subject to any limitations, if premiums carry 
on being paid.  The yearly cost of these  lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, 
particularly if a claim is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Ms D. It has accepted 
the information it gave Ms D about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £1,500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because after she has 
claimed up to the policy limit, RSA will no longer pay for her pets medical treatment. She is 
also required  to pay 20% of any claim made under  the policy  as well as a £150  excess.  
Because of the age of her pet she will also find it difficult  to find equivalent,  alternative  
insurance. Ms D feels the increase in premiums is unfair and that RSA should have been 
clearer from the outset  about what the policy would cost over the lifetime  of her pet, so that 
she could consider alternative  options and plan for the future.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and what limitations  and excesses they include within their policies.  I dont have the power to 
tell a business what its insurance should cost, or what to include within the policies it offers.  I 
would be, in effect, determining or telling  a business how it should  operate   and thats not 
my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Ds policy is too high, she should  have been charged 
less for the policy or that she should  be charged  less in the future.
While Ms Ds premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going  forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Ms D a significant amount of distress  as, due to the 
medical conditions  her pet now has, she cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. She is close 
to the limit the policy allows  for her pets condition, and the ongoing cost of her pets medical 
treatment means she will find it difficult to afford the treatment  moving  forwards.  
Ref: DRN97619422But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms D the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Ms D hadnt taken the lifetime policy that she did, she wouldve either had no cover at all, 
and would have  had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover,  
There is a chance  Ms D may have sought  a different policy  with better  cover, but it is likely 
this would have  come at a higher  cost and the cost of that policy  is likely to also have seen 
significant increases  each  year.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Ms D having cover for ongoing conditions at a fixed or capped premium  this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put her in this position.
I appreciate that had Ms D been  given  more information from the outset  she could have 
saved towards her pets potential future medical  costs.  But this would  still have come  at a 
cost and Ms D would not have known at the time what  kind of expenses  to save  towards.
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Ms D has 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Ms D for the trouble 
and upset shes been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Ms D £1,500  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9761942