K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide Building Society (trading as Cheshire Building Society)  
mis-sold them payment  protection insurance  (PPI) with a mortgage in 1991.
background
The mortgage was in joint names, but the PPI was in Mr Js name only.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint, concluding  that it was not made clear to Mr and Mrs J 
that they had a choice about taking out PPI.
Nationwide disagreed with these findings.  It has commented that none of the documentation  
completed at the time showed PPI to be compulsory. With regard to the mortgage 
application, Nationwide has highlighted that a box was available  for Mr and Mrs J to tick if 
they wanted to decline  PPI. There was a handwritten note stating 1st APP ONLY , referring 
to Mr J as the first named applicant on the mortgage. Whilst mentioning  the PPI policy,  the 
mortgage offer also did not state  that this policy was a condition of the mortgage.
Nationwide has stated  that having applied  for the policy, Mr and Mrs J had time to consider 
whether they wanted to proceed  with it before it came into force.  It has also explained that 
Cheshire Building Society never made having  a PPI policy a condition  of any of its 
mortgages. Nationwide has stated that it was reasonable for the policy to be in Mr Js name 
only, as he was the sole income  earner at this time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case.
On the mortgage  application form signed  by Mr and Mrs J, there was a section about  PPI. 
This stated: The Society  will arrange sickness, accident and unemployment insurance on 
behalf of the first named  applicant... .There  were then two tick boxes. One was to switch  the 
cover to the second  named applicant,  and it was confirmed that only one applicant  could be 
covered. The other box could be ticked  if the applicant did not want  PPI. Both boxes on the 
application form are blank.
Nationwide considers that because there  was an option  to turn down the PPI, this shows that 
Mr and Mrs J had a choice about  it. However in my view, because the form confirmed that 
the default option was that PPI would be taken out unless  the deselection box was ticked, 
this is consistent  with Mr and Mrs Js description  that they were led to believe that they had 
to take out PPI in order to be granted the mortgage.  The way in which  the PPI section is laid 
out indicates to me on balance that it was not made clear to Mr and Mrs J that they had a 
real choice about whether they wanted  to take out PPI. I also consider that from the 
information on the application  form, Mr and Mrs J could easily have missed that they needed  
to do something if they didnt want the cover.
I accept that the mortgage offer did not state that taking out PPI was a condition of the 
mortgage, and acknowledge Nationwides comments that Cheshire Building Society never  
made PPI a condition of its mortgages.  However, in the circumstances of this sale, my view 
Ref: DRN98511362is that Nationwide did not make it as clear as it should have done to Mr and Mrs J that they 
had a choice about taking  out PPI. My conclusion is that Mr and Mrs J have lost out because  
of what Nationwide  did wrong, and so it should put things right.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
It can also deduct any sum that it has already  refunded to Mr and Mrs J in respect  of 
commission paid under the policy.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Nationwide  Building Society to pay 
Mr and Mrs J fair compensation  as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9851136