complaint
Mr L has complained  about  his building  warranty provider  National House-Building Council 
(NHBC). Hes had on-going problems with water  getting in around a window at his property.
background
Mr L owns a flat which had a 10-year warranty. The warranty  began in 2004.
Dating back to 2008 Mr L had problems with a window in his flat. It was changed in 2012 
and it became apparent the old blinds  couldnt be re-fitted. Further  water ingress was also 
noted. In April 2014 NHBC issued a final response saying it wouldnt change the window 
just because of the blinds but it would carry out repairs regarding the further water ingress 
and pay £1,500 compensation for delays. Mr L complained to us and we issued a decision 
in 2015.
Whilst wed been considering Mr Ls complaint, in around September  2014, NHBC installed 
some cavity trays above  the window, believing  this would resolve the ingress issue.
Following our decision, NHBC,  in December 2015 and early January  2016, contacted  Mr L 
regarding settlement. Mr L didnt then contact NHBC again until 12 June 2017,  at which  
time Mr L said thered  been further water  ingress.
Mr L said the flat had, by this point, been  let for three years,  the tenancy was ending and 
the tenant pointed out to Mr L that thered  been  water getting in around the window. It 
wasnt clear how long this had been going on.
On 13 June 2017, NHBC, having resolved an initial and brief misunderstanding it had about 
the current situation, agreed  to come and inspect  the windows. NHBCs contractors then 
visited in August, after NHBC had chased  it for progress. NHBC then wanted to assess the 
window itself. This happened in early September 2017. NHBC didnt see the problem as 
having been caused by a previous failed repair but felt it should have done  more when the 
window was fitted to ensure no further  ingress  occurred. It said it would fix the issue.
Mr L, living a few hundred  miles away from the property, couldnt make  the appointments 
he was offered in September and October. Work was scheduled to start on 8 November. 
NHBC was aware the work might take three  days.  Mr L called it on 8 November and said he 
was disappointed to learn the redecoration  work wouldnt be done that day. He said he 
couldnt travel back and forth again the following day. NHBC agreed  to settle in cash  and 
sent Mr L an offer that day.
Ref: DRN9683071The following  day, 9 November 2017, Mr L said he was unhappy with the way the window 
surround had been left. He said NHBCs settlement was just regarding  painting and he 
wanted it to pay for a plasterer. NHBC said, that day, that this wasnt possible or necessary. 
Mr L said he wanted his carpet replacing.  NHBC wasnt minded to do that.
Mr L complained and NHBC responded across two final response letters  in late November 
and early December  2017. It said it would pay Mr L; £347.43 for decorating  plastering 
wasnt necessary as the property was dry-lined, £60.00 for the carpet to be cleaned but not 
replaced, and £500.00  compensation for upset caused by delays.
Mr L was unhappy  about this. He felt the settlement  offers were insufficient, that the carpet 
did need replacing and more importantly  that NHBC should compensate him for lost rent. 
Mr L complained to us and in January told us and NHBC  about  further  water  ingress  which 
had occurred. NHBC sent an assessor  the day after the matter  was reported to it. The 
window area was assessed  and no sign of ingress  was found. That was 25 January 2018.
Mr L was adamant  there was a problem  and in early February  2018  sent further photos and 
video evidence to NHBC of water droplets on the top of the window frame.  He told NHBC 
his tenant had given notice to quit because of the water getting in, he told us the tenancy 
had only started in January 2018.
NHBC asked its contractors to reattend. They didnt contact Mr L until later March and a 
visit was arranged for 27 March. They again  found no clear  reason for water getting  in. But 
they applied more sealant around a vent.
Mr L told our investigator he had no faith in the work that had been done. On 27 April 2017, 
unaware that NHBC had just issued a final response to Mr L on 9 April,  our investigator 
formed a view about Mr Ls complaint, taking into account the recent  repair activity. She 
said NHBC should do more work  to ensure  its previous  repairs  would be long-lasting and 
effective. She also felt it should  pay Mr L an amount  to cover any rent lost as a result of the 
ingress and delayed repairs. But she thought NHBCs offer to pay for the carpet  cleaning  
was reasonable.
NHBC objected to the findings and sent us a copy of its recent final response.  Both its 
objections and the final repsonse indicated  it felt the water ingress  issue had been resolved 
and assured that the work was guaranteed. NHBC explained though that the warranty had 
now ended  so it wouldnt be liable for fixing any new instances  of ingress that werent  
related to its previous repairs. The final response  accepted that there  had been  further  
delays and offered  £250 compensation. In objecting to our findings NHBC said whilst it had 
recently offered  to clean the carpet it was now aware that it had paid Mr L to replace the 
carpet in 2010  and he didnt seem to have  done  this. So it now wasnt  prepared  to pay for 
the cleaning cost. Regarding lost rent it felt our investigator hadnt been clear  about what  
she thought it should pay or even over what period.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. Whilst I was reviewing it Mr L 
told our investigator about a further  leak. I asked our investigator to get further information 
from both parties, but also to let Mr L know that we couldnt look at the new leak as part of 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN9683071I issued a provisional decision as I felt NHBC  didnt need to do more  work at this time but 
I did think it should pay Mr L for lost rent and decorating.  I felt NHBCs offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable, so said it should pay this. My findings  were:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
repair
From what  Ive seen the repair in 2017  stemmed directly from the work NHBC carried  out to 
re-fit the window  in 2012. Essentially the window was fitted behind  the external edge  of the 
render and wasnt sealed properly. There were issues with accessing the outside of the 
property so, in 2017,  internal damp proofing was fitted.
This means  that all the activity which occurred in 2017 was avoidable. It wouldnt have been 
necessary if the window  had been fitted  properly  in 2012, or if this additional cause of water 
ingress had been  picked  up in 2014.
That being  said,  based on the evidence of the investigations carried out in early 2018, Im 
satisfied NHBC  has likely resolved the problems resulting  from its 2012  repair.  I note the 
assessment in January was carried out following a major storm but all nooks and crannies 
of the window were  found to be dry. And when  the ceiling was opened in March,  the 
boarding wasnt  stained. I think NHBCs investigation was thorough at this stage and, based 
on what it found at that time, I wouldnt reasonably expect it to have done  anything more.
But also based  on what it found at that time,  Im not persuaded  that episode  of ingress was 
related to previous repairs that NHCB had carried out. The focus seems  to have been on 
sealing a vent.  Ive not seen anything to indicate that NHBC installed a vent previously. And 
the area water was getting in and the way it was appearing in the property was very 
different to that which had occurred before  water  droplets on the frame, as opposed to 
water staining around the window reveals. So I dont think  this was caused by a failure of 
NHBC.
lost rent
Mr L has shown that he couldnt let the property whilst water was getting in. He didnt have 
a tenant arranged to take over the flat in June 2017, but the fact of the water ingress meant 
he couldnt re-market  it at that time.
NHBCs contractors  did cause delays  into August. There were  then further delays when 
NHCB wanted to view the property. I know it was difficult  for Mr L to travel  to allow access 
for repairs. He was asked  to provide  a key but I can understand why hed want  to be there 
when work  was done. Given the history I think NHBC could have done more to move this 
on more quickly. NHBC could also have  warned  Mr L that the November repairs might take 
more than a day.
However, I think that following the water ingress being stopped on 8 November,  Mr L could 
have taken action  straight  away to have the property re-marketed. The outstanding 
decoration, particularly as it related to a small area,  shouldnt have prevented  that. And as 
re-marketing was always needed in June 2017 anyway, Mr L was now back to the same 
position regarding  renting  the property as he was when  the further damage was found.
I make  that five months.
Ref: DRN9683071Mr L has provided a valuation from 2014 showing the flat would usually rent for £1,100. Im 
satisfied that NHBC should, therefore, pay Mr L £5,500, plus interest,  to make up for the 
rental income he was unable to attain due to NHBCs error. I cant be sure when each  
monthly amount  would have been accrued. On balance I think  if the property had been 
placed back on the market in June  2017, Mr L would reasonably  have begun  receiving rent 
on 1 July 2017 (based on the flats location  and price). Therefore, Im going to suggest  that 
NHBC adds interest on each monthly  amount, from the date it should  have  been  received, 
starting with the first amount on 1 July 2017, and on all monthly  amounts  thereafter, until 
settlement is made.
There were clearly further delays in 2018  when Mr L reported  the further loss. But the 
investigation the day after his report was thorough. I can understand why, following that, 
NHBC felt there was no further  problem for it to resolve. I see that when Mr L sent it further  
evidence on 31 January NHBC looked to review that and it was then only a week (two 
weeks since notification) before Mr L said his tenant  had given notice to quit.
Whilst NHBC delayed after this point,  Im not sure the situation with the tenant would have 
changed if it had handled things better. And I dont think NHBC had handled things badly, in 
relation to this incident, up to the point Mr L said the tenant was quitting.  So Im not 
persuaded that NHBCs delay in dealing with this reported ingress caused Mr L to lose rent. 
Further, Im also satisfied,  as I explained above, that this episode  wasnt  related to NHBCs 
previous repairs. Therefore, Im not going  to suggest that NHBC recompenses Mr L for any 
rent lost at this time.
decorating
Mr L asked for cash to finish off NHBCs work. NHBC said only painting was required. It 
explained the decorator would rub the area down as part of his work. The area,  it said, 
didnt need plastering as the flat wasnt plastered  originally. Im persuaded, given the 
photos Ive seen, by what  NHBC has said.
I think its cost for decorating the area, even if that was to extend  to the whole room, was 
generous. The area and room arent  large  so wouldnt take long to prepare and paint, and 
the cost of materials would be relatively limited as well.
I understand that, to date, NHBC hasnt paid the previously offered sum of £347.43. As Im 
satisfied its a reasonable settlement, Ill add this to my award  below. When NHBC made 
the offer, it said acceptance of it would be on a full and final basis.  Reasonably  it should  
have allowed Mr L to accept it whist still having the chance to complain. As it didnt Im 
going to require NHBC to add interest*  to this amount  from the 8 November  2017,  the date 
it was offered on a restricted basis, until settlement is made.
carpet
NHBC did accept it should have cleaned the carpet  after the 2017 repairs.  It was for this 
reason it offered £60.00  so Mr L could carry that out. But it has shown  me that it has 
already paid, a few years ago, for the carpet to be replaced. And from the evidence it has 
provided it doesnt seem as though  Mr L did that. Unless Mr L can show  me that he 
replaced the carpet in the bedroom, following NHBC making settlement for that in 2010, or 
that he used that money for other  things which NHBC should have paid for, Im not going to 
ask it to pay anything  now.
Ref: DRN9683071K821x#15When a cash settlement is made that ends the parties liability to each other. If Mr L didnt 
use that money to replace the carpet  then that was up to him. If he was asking for 
replacement or cleaning because of damage still existing from that time, that would  be 
another matter.  But NHBC  accepts  it should  have cleaned the carpet following its work at 
the property but didnt.  So whether that work  was done with a new carpet  in place, or the 
old one that should have  been replaced, is irrelevant, the cleaning  would still be required.
But if Mr L hasnt replaced the carpet, and still has the money from before, then it 
wouldnt be fair for me to make NHBC pay for cleaning an old carpet for which  Mr L is still 
at liberty to replace  because of previous funds paid. Unless Mr L can convince me that it 
would be fair to do so, I wont  make  NHBC pay for the carpet to be cleaned.
I know Mr L thinks that cleaning the carpet wont be successful,  that it needs replacing.  
Even if Mr L shows  me that he replaced the carpet  following  the settlement in 2010, Im 
not persuaded NHBC should reasonably have to replace it again now. Its clear that the 
water ingress notified to NHBC  in 2017  had been  going on for an unknown but extended 
period prior to Mr L being made aware  of it. I think the mould damage and stiffness  
reported in the carpet,  are likely due to on-going exposure, and because NHBC wasnt 
advised of the on-going issue until 2017,  I cant reasonably  blame it for the carpet having 
become damaged beyond repair (if it is). I think its liability here reasonably only extends 
as far as cleaning the carpet  to resolve any mess caused by its repairs.
compensation
NHBC has offered a total of £750  for distress and inconvenient caused to Mr L during  the 
investigations and repairs in 2017 and 2018.
The further ingress in 2017  was clearly frustrating  for Mr L and caused  him a lot of 
inconvenience. As I said above,  all of that could have been  avoided. I dont think the 
upset Mr L was caused in 2018 could have been completely avoided  because the issue  
wasnt, Im satisfied, related to NHBCs previous repairs. But NHBC did then caused 
delays and Mr L had to chase it to organise  the March  visit and repair.  Overall, I think  
£750 makes up for the frustration and inconvenience Mr L was caused.
NHBC said it accepted my findings. Mr L said he wasnt  concerned  any longer about the 
carpet, his only concern  is what will happen in the future, if his window leaks again. He 
said he wants assurance that NHBC will act regarding any further  ingress (including that 
which occurred recently) and resolve  the source and cause.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt know, when he sees water coming in, where it has come 
from or what  the cause  is. Given the history of the parties I can understand why he links 
any such incident to NHBCs  repair work.  But when I assessed the evidence about the 
source of the leak found in 2018, I was satisfied that it hadnt been  caused due to any 
failure of NHBC,  and because the warranty term had expired there  was no cause to make 
it consider the damage as a new claim.
Ref: DRN96830716I cant give assurance to Mr L about what NHBC will have to do in the future. Given  there 
is an outstanding  claim that isnt part of this complaint it would be remiss of me to make  
any comment at this stage; I might prejudice one or both the parties positions. 
As Mr L and NHBC were  satisfied  by my provisional  findings, Ive no reason to change  
them. They now form part of this final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National  House-Building Council to pay Mr L:
£5,500 in respect of lost rent, plus interest* on each monthly sum and from the dates 
as directed above, until settlement  is made.
£347.43 for decorating, plus interest* from 8 November  2017 until settlement is made.
£750 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience, less any part of this amount 
already paid, if any has been.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If National 
House- Building  Council  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest 
due to Mr L, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr L a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9683071