K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd has unfairly  recorded and refused  to remove adverse  
information on his credit file in relation  to a finance  arrangement he had with it.
background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
Neither party had anything to add to my proposed conclusions. In light of this, I see no 
reason to depart from the resolution I proposed in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and, in more detail in my provisional  decision, my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require NewDay  Ltd 
to take immediate steps to ensure that all details of the default in question are removed from 
Mr Ws credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Niall F Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN98039392COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that NewDay Ltd has unfairly  recorded  and refused to remove adverse information 
on his credit file in relation  to a finance arrangement he had with it.
background
Some years  ago, Mr W bought a sofa on credit. The transaction was financed  by Santander Cards UK 
Limited (and subsequently assigned to NewDay),  with Mr W due to make 48 monthly  payments by 
direct debit to clear the balance. A couple of months before the agreement  was due to finish,  Mr Ws 
direct debit was cancelled. That meant there was an outstanding balance,  which  Mr W didnt repay for 
several months. By that point, NewDay  had recorded missed payments on his credit file, and 
registered the account in default.
Mr W believes NewDay has acted unfairly. He says neither he nor his bank cancelled the direct debit. 
Mr W adds  that he didnt  receive any indication  from NewDay that this had happened, or that the 
account was in arrears. He also says that when he paid off the balance, NewDay  told him it had 
cancelled the direct  debit and would  remove the default. However, this hasnt been done.
NewDay says it didnt cancel  the direct debit, but that it wrote  to Mr W to tell him this had happened.  It 
also says it wrote on several other occasions about the position  of the account, culminating  in a 
default notice a couple  of months before Mr W settled the balance.  In respect of the default  
information, NewDay wont amend Mr Ws credit file, as it considers what its recorded to be a true 
reflection of the account conduct.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that NewDay  had cancelled the direct debit. He found  that Mr W 
had moved  house twice after taking out the finance agreement, but that NewDay had no record of Mr 
W telling it of his new addresses.  He wasnt able to listen to Mr Ws telephone conversation with 
NewDay, but didnt think the content of the call would in any event  make a difference to whether the 
default was correctly  recorded.
Mr W hasnt  accepted the investigators  conclusions.  Hes asked for this review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to reach  an initial conclusion  about whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my findings on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
I can understand why this issue is important to Mr W. Hes found out about  the adverse credit 
information in the course of trying to rearrange  his mortgage, and the impact of the default  affects the 
rates available to him. It seems to me that theres been an unfortunate combination of events  thats 
led to this situation.  The direct debit was cancelled. NewDay wrote to Mr W to let him know, but he 
didnt receive its letters because they went to an old address. The account  statements and arrears 
letters were missed for the same reason, as was the default notice.
In the course of investigating, weve  looked into records held by NewDay and those  held by Mr Ws 
bank. Neither  of these holds any documentary evidence about the direct debit  cancellation that 
explains why, or by whom.  While Mr W has said his bank has told him neither he nor it can cancel a 
direct debit, that isnt correct.  The direct debit guarantee, which applies to all direct debits,  says that a 
customer can cancel a direct  debit at any time simply by contacting their bank.
Cancellation would generally prompt contact from the originator (the company  to whom payments are 
due), alerting the customer to any direct debits cancelled  in error. But as Ive already noted, on this 
Ref: DRN98039393occasion Mr W didnt receive NewDays contact  though as our investigator found,  theres  no record 
of NewDay being told Mr W had moved house.
I dont think theres enough here for me to say that its any more likely  that NewDay cancelled  the 
direct debit than that Mr W might have mistakenly  cancelled the direct  debit himself,  the action  coming 
as it did 48 months after he bought the sofa. There doesnt seem any logical reason why NewDay 
would have cancelled  the direct debit, knowing  payments  were still due, and then written to Mr W 
asking him to reinstate the direct debit. But the lack of a logical explanation doesnt preclude the 
simple possibility that a mistake was made.
At the point of cancellation,  only 46 payments had been made (the first payment wasnt collected until 
two months after the purchase  date). But Mr W might  have assumed  hed made  all the payments 
required, particularly  if his statements were going to a different  address. So its just as likely  that Mr W 
 or possibly even his bank  simply made a mistake.
Of course, this is simply speculation as to what might  have prompted cancellation. The key problem 
here is a lack of any persuasive  evidence as to the reason  or party  responsible for that 
cancellation. In the absence of this, Im not currently minded  to reach the conclusion that NewDay has 
acted incorrectly or treated Mr W unfairly by taking the action it has in recording the default 
information on his credit  file. The loan went unpaid, NewDay didnt get a response to its letters and 
the default  notice appears to have been issued to the last known  address NewDay had for Mr W.
However, I dont consider  that to be the end of the matter.  I think  theres a further aspect, being 
whether having looked into the circumstances, NewDay is acting  fairly towards  Mr W in declining  to 
remove the default information.  In this respect, NewDay  said the following:
NewDay Ltd will not routinely amend a payment profile if it is deemed the business  has not 
made an error. As a responsible lender, we must ensure  that the information we record is 
accurate and is simply a mirrored reflection on how payments have been received 
irrespective of the circumstances.
Therefore if a payment  has been  received  on time, this will be recorded as a prompt  and 
timely payment. However, if the payment has been missed or is late, the information recorded 
will be that the payment  has been received late.
Regrettably, we are unable to amend the information recorded on your credit file as this is 
considered to be a true reflection of how your account has been maintained.
I can understand where NewDay is coming from. It has, for example,  obligations towards  other 
prospective credit providers to report account  conduct accurately  (though  I dont think that goes as far 
as irrespective  of the circumstances ). The fact payments were due but not made  is something that 
NewDay is entitled to record, just as Mr W is entitled to place a notice of correction on his credit file to 
explain the payments werent made because the direct  debit got cancelled.
I wouldnt expect NewDay to amend a payment profile  as a matter  of routine. But I consider it good 
practice for a lender to consider the circumstances when  asked to do so. As Ive said above,  Im 
unable to conclude  that NewDay made an error over the direct debit collection. But thats not the 
same as saying NewDay didnt make  an error  the position  is that this is inconclusive, due to the lack 
of available evidence. 
I dont believe I can rightly conclude NewDay took this into account  when it decided not to amend Mr 
Ws credit file. If there was clear evidence  that the cancellation wasnt NewDays fault, its position  may 
be reasonable. But there  doesnt appear to be such evidence,  and that causes  me to question  
whether in these circumstances its fair for NewDay  to decline to remove the default. As things 
currently stand, Im not persuaded that it is.
Ref: DRN98039394my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, but subject to any further information or evidence  I might receive 
from the parties by 27 December  2018, my provisional  decision is that Im minded to uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint, in part.
To settle it, I propose to require NewDay Ltd to take immediate steps to ensure that all details  of the 
default are removed  from Mr Ws credit file.
Niall F Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9803939