K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1995. Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a loan with Nationwide. The loan was in joint names. At the same 
time they were sold a PPI policy.
There is very little information  available from the time of the sale, but Nationwide  has told us 
that as Mr F was the first named on the loan agreement the policy  wouldve covered him 
against being unable to work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
Nationwide cant tell us if the loan was secured  or unsecured. 
If it was secured the PPI couldve paid Mr F a monthly benefit equivalent to the loan 
repayment for up to 12 months if he lost his job and for 24 months if he couldnt work  due to 
an accident or sickness. 
If the loan was unsecured the monthly benefit  from any PPI claim would be payable for up to 
12 months if Mr F lost his job. If he couldnt  work  due to an accident or sickness the policy 
would pay a monthly benefit until the loan was repaid  or Mr F returned to work.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Nationwide hasnt been able to send  all the paperwork  from the time and has limited 
information about the sale and whether  it was a secured or unsecured  loan which               
Mr and Mrs F took out. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has 
gone by since  the sale took place. But where  there is limited information,  I will make  my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence 
available, what  both  parties have told me and what we know about  these types  of sale.
Mr and Mrs F have  told us they didnt know the policy was sold to them.
Nationwide hasnt been able to show us a copy of the loan agreement,  but I think  its likely  
some discussion  took place about  the PPI. The records  do show  that Mr and Mrs F paid the 
premiums for the PPI separately to the loan repayment to the policy insurer. So the PPI 
premiums would be paid from their current account and be shown on their bank statements. 
If the PPI was something they didnt want or were not made aware  of at the time of the sale,  
Id expect them to have questioned the premiums at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any 
evidence they did so.
Ref: DRN94827212Taking everything into account  I think Nationwide most likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs F 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this after so many years.
From what  I know of how Nationwide sold PPI at the time, I dont think  it recommended the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was suited to them. But it did have to 
make sure Mr and Mrs F got the information  they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type 
of cover.  Ive next looked to see if its likely  any clearer  information  wouldve led to Mr and 
Mrs F declining  the policy.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Fs circumstances at the time of the sale it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been  
useful for him if something went wrong.
Whilst Mrs F worked for the local authority and wouldve received a good level of sick pay, it 
was Mr F who was covered by the policy. Mr F has told us he would only get statutory sick 
pay if he was unable  to work due to an accident  or sickness. The policy  sold to Mr and Mrs F 
couldve paid a monthly benefit  for up to 24 months  (longer if the loan was unsecured)  if     
Mr F was too unwell to work. And itd also pay a benefit if he lost his job. So I think Mr and 
Mrs F would have found it useful if something  went wrong.
Mr and Mrs F have  told us they had some  savings. But they were taking out a loan so it 
seems they wanted  to keep their savings intact.  The cover would mean Mr and Mrs F would 
not need to use their savings if Mr F couldnt work. So I think  they wouldve valued the extra  
security, especially if the loan was secured on their home. 
Mr and Mrs F continued to pay the premiums  for some time. As the policy was paid for on a 
monthly basis, they couldve been  cancelled  at any time without Mr and Mrs F losing  out
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs F off taking out 
the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs F aware of the PPI policy,  and 
that it was optional. And I think  Mr and Mrs F chose to take it out. And, while I cant be sure 
about the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs F at the time, I dont think  theyd have 
chosen not to buy the policy, even if they were given all the clear information they should 
have been. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 May 2019.
Ref: DRN94827213Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9482721