K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) dealt with a claim he made  under 
his motor insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the amount it has paid him for his car.
 
background
Below is intended to be a summary of what has happened, rather  than a detailed timeline 
with all issues listed. 
Mr H was involved in an accident. He says he'd turned in to a yellow box junction  and the 
third party driver hit his car. Mr H says the third party wasn't  paying  attention  and shouldn't 
have entered  the box junction as their exit wasn't  clear. 
Mr H made  a claim under his policy and provided UKI with details of what happened during a 
telephone call. He later completed an accident report form which  included  a sketch of the 
location of the accident.  The third party held Mr H at fault for the accident but, given  the 
information Mr H had initially  provided  to UKI, it wrote back  to defend the claim. 
In light of the third partys  claims, UKI decided that it needed a claims investigator to 
interview Mr H face to face. Mr H explained  that he was very busy, and it would be unlikely 
hed have availability  for this to happen.  Mr H asked if the interview  could take place by 
phone. He also said that before he gave this interview, he expected  UKI to obtain police 
reports and his medical notes from the hospital,  as well as a transcript  of his initial  call, so 
that he could review these  first.  
UKI explained a telephone interview wouldnt  meet its requirements on this occasion. And, in 
any event, it would expect  the interview  to take place  without Mr H reviewing this information  
as it wanted to capture his recollections  of the accident. It did say it would ask for police 
reports for the file but didnt think the medical  notes would provide any further detail  on how 
the accident took place  or who was responsible.   
Mr H was unhappy with how UKI were  conducting the claim, he said he wanted  UKI to 
appoint an independent claims investigator of his own choosing. He also said if UKI wouldnt 
do this he would be happy to speak to and have a statement prepared by an independent 
solicitor. He didnt think  UKI was doing enough  to represent him in the claim. UKI explained it 
was satisfied its claims investigator would be able to take the statement required. It was left 
that a claims investigator wouldnt  be instructed at that point as Mr H wasnt available  and 
UKI would continue with its investigations.  At the point the complaint was brought  to the 
service, the claim hadnt been settled.
As Mr Hs car was damaged in the accident,  UKI chose to pay Mr H the market value of his 
car instead of repairing  it, as allowed  by the policy. It valued the car at £6,400 saying there 
was pre accident damage to the car which reduced its value. Mr H was unhappy with this 
value and the fact UKIs engineer wouldnt consider  altering it. Mr H was also unhappy the 
engineer wouldnt  confirm his thoughts in writing or send his report  to him to review. There 
were also problems with the two parties being able to speak at a convenient time. 
Mr H was unhappy UKI wouldnt appoint an independent engineer  to review the damage to 
his car and he wanted the opportunity to arrange for different  repairers to quote for the cost 
of repairing  the car. Once Mr H had been able to review the report, he said there was more 
damage listed to the car than there was when it was taken into UKIs possession, Mr H 
Ref: DRN95061552provided UKI with images of the car he took a short time after the accident.  He said he 
thought the car was worth in the region of £12,000  to £15,000 and provided some adverts 
hed found to support this.
UKI didnt  agree it had done  anything  wrong,  it explained the engineer had tried to call Mr H 
three times and was unable to reach him. Its usual  process was for engineers to discuss 
valuation disputes  by telephone. It explained it wasnt prepared  to change  the valuation  of 
the car. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. He explained to Mr H that UKI was entitled  to 
pursue the claim  under its usual procedures  and he wouldnt  expect independent claims 
investigators or solicitors  to be appointed.  He also said he didnt think  UKIs request for a 
face to face interview or its request  Mr H completes the interview without the sight  of other 
reports, was unreasonable. So, he didnt think UKI had done anything  wrong in how it was 
handling the claim. 
But our investigator did think UKIs  valuation  of Mr Hs car was low and recommended UKI 
pay £8,728 as this was an average of the motor trade guide prices.  He recognised this was 
also less that Mr H thought the car was worth and explained that adverts dont always 
represent the true market value of a car.
Neither UKI or Mr H accepted the investigators  opinion. 
UKI didnt  agree with the valuation, it still thought  deductions should be made for the pre 
accident damage to the car. It said when  it took off the value of those deductions, the 
amount being  recommended was only around £50 higher than it had already offered. 
Mr H said that he didnt  think the valuation was enough. He said the car had previously had 
over £3,000 of work done to it, so he didnt agree it was in poor condition.  Hed mentioned in 
correspondence to the business  that the wheels of the car were  scuffed, he was aware the 
was damage to an internal speaker cover and the rear bumper was slightly out of alignment. 
But he didnt  agree the dents and scratches the engineer had highlighted were  present when 
the car was taken  away by UKI. Mr H reiterated that hed found adverts for similar cars for a 
lot more than the amount offered, so he thinks the valuation should be increased to a similar 
figure. 
The case  has come  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator, so Ill be upholding this complaint in part. 
But before I explain  my reasons, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise 
Mr Hs strength of feeling about these matters. Mr H has provided numerous submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However,  I hope  Mr H wont  
take the fact my findings focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the 
points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  single  
point the parties  have  raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr H and by UKI, and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case
Ref: DRN95061553UKIs handling of the claim
Mr Hs policy  contains a term that allows UKI to take over and deal with a claim. It doesnt  
explain exactly how it will do this or does UKI, or any other  insurer  for that matter, routinely 
disclose their internal  claims  processes. Each claim is investigated based on its own 
circumstances and usually either  defended or settled  on what  the insurer considers to be the 
best available terms. 
Mr H has explained why he wanted UKI to appoint independent professionals  to help deal 
with his claim. He said he offered this to UKI at no additional cost to it. While I appreciate  
Mr Hs reasons, this isnt something  Id normally expect an insurer to do. So, I dont think  UKI 
acted unreasonably when it explained  to Mr H it wouldnt appoint these individuals. 
I realise Mr Hs availability was very limited and he was unhappy UKI wanted to interview  
him face to face rather than by telephone. Mr H has mentioned that if UKI had explained 
when the policy was sold its requirement  for face to face interviews, he wouldnt have  taken 
out the policy.
It isnt always the case  face to face interviews  are required, so I wouldnt usually expect  to 
see this in the policy literature. In this case UKI felt a face to face interview was best. It isnt 
my role to tell UKI how it should investigate claims,  Ive considered  the fact UKI explained  to 
Mr H why it wanted to conduct a face to face interview and that a telephone interview 
wouldnt suit its requirements.  Ive also considered the fact that UKI didnt force the issue  at 
that time,  it explained  it would continue with its investigations and review further at a later 
date if Mr H remained unavailable. Overall, I dont  think UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here.
Mr H has raised  other issues with how UKI handled his claim including what he was told on 
the phone  conflicting with information he later received and issues  with speaking with the 
engineer. Ive considered this but I dont think any compensation  is due. I think Mr Hs main 
unhappiness has come  from how UKI was dealing with his claim and the fact he didnt think  
it was acting in his best interests. So even if there were instances where UKI could have 
done something better, I dont think it has caused  Mr H trouble or upset in addition to that 
which he was already experiencing, or to the extent  an award of compensation is required. 
The valuation of Mr Hs car
The policy terms say that where Mr H's car is damaged  as a result  of an accident,  UKI will 
either pay for it to be repaired  or pay a cash sum representing no more  than the market  
value of the car. 
Because the damage to the car would cost a lot to repair,  UKI offered Mr H a cash sum to 
represent the market value  of it. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. But what  I 
need to decide is what a fair payment would be.
Valuing cars isn't an exact science and generally  I would find the valuations  given in motor 
trade guides, rather than adverts, to be the most  persuasive. This is because  they are based 
on research of likely selling prices,  using advertised  prices and auction prices to work  out 
what the likely selling  prices would be.
Ref: DRN95061554The investigator, after looking at the motor trade  guides thought the value of the vehicle 
should be increased to £8,728. I think that is a reasonable value.  Ive thought  carefully about 
what Mr H and UKI have said about the condition of the car, as they both have opposing 
views. Ive also thought about the fact at the time of the accident the car was 13 years old so 
some amount of existing  damage would normally be expected  on a car of that age. 
Mr H has said the car was in good  condition before UKI took possession of it, he points to 
the note the recovery driver gave him which didnt list any damage other than that on the 
wheels. However, I wouldnt expect the note to list all the damage  to the car as they wouldnt 
be in a position to conclude what was accident  damage and what  wasnt. Their main 
purpose is to move  the car to storage.  Ive noted however Mr H has agreed there was some  
damage to the car. 
Mr H has provided adverts of similar  cars to his, however they are not identical. As explained 
above, adverts dont  always  reflect the true market value of a car, but they sometimes  can 
give a good indication if no other  evidence  is available or is contradictory. In this case, Im 
more persuaded  by the values given in the motor  trade guides.
Having considered everything, I think £8,728 represents a fair market value of the car. I dont 
think UKI should make any deductions  from this amount for pre accident damage for the 
reasons explained above. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold in part Mr Hs complaint against U K Insurance Limited. I 
require it to pay Mr H £8,728 less any payment already made to Mr H for the car. It should 
add interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date it originally made  
payment to Mr H to the date it makes this settlement. 
If U K Insurance Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
him a certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9506155