K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold him an income 
protection policy in August 2011.  Mr C says the policy was mis-sold because  he was told 
that taking it out was a condition of his mortgage.  He says he was also told he needed  to 
take it out because his mortgage and loan repayments would  be at risk if he lost his job. 
background
Mr C bought the policy from Natwest when he and his wife were reviewing their insurance 
cover arrangements.  Only Mr C was covered by the policy, which had an initial  monthly 
premium of £70.24.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think the policy was mis-sold. 
Because Mr C is unhappy with the investigators findings, his complaint has come  to me for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it. I will explain  why.
Ive seen that Natwest advised Mr C to take out the policy,  following  a series of meetings 
Mr and Mrs C had with Natwests representative.  As it was making a recommendation, 
Natwest needed to ensure  that it was right for Mr C and that the information  it gave  him 
about the policy was clear,  fair and not misleading.  
Whilst Ive no way of knowing exactly what was said at these meetings, Ive seen a copy  of 
the letter sent to Mr and Mrs C in which Natwests representative set out his advice and 
recommendations, having carried  out a review  of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. In relation 
to income protection, the letter set out details about why the policy met Mr and Mrs Cs 
needs. It says that Mr and Mrs C wanted  to keep their protection costs as low as possible 
going forwards and that they felt they were over-insured in relation to their mortgage. Mr C 
had also said he was concerned that as the main wage earner he didnt have adequate 
accident or sickness cover.  
To help put together the recommendations, Mr and Mrs C needed to discuss  amongst other 
things the level of cover they needed,  Mr Cs planned retirement  age as well as that they 
wanted the minimum deferral period before Mr C could  make a claim. From the letter, it 
seems that Mr and Mrs Cs personal  and financial circumstances were  discussed in a good 
deal of detail.  
Mr C says he thought  he had to take the income protection  policy  as it was a condition  of his 
mortgage. But given  that Mr and Mrs C already had their mortgage in place,  taking out the 
policy couldnt have  been a requirement.  Ive also taken into account that from what Ive 
seen, there  isnt any other evidence that suggests  they were  required to take out the policy  
for example, in order to secure further lending. 
Mr C also says he bought  the policy because Natwest made him think he would be at risk if 
he lost his job. But given  that Mr and Mrs C had discussed their income  protection 
Ref: DRN95421372requirements at some  length with the Natwest representative, I think  its likely that this was 
the product they wanted to buy. 
Ive seen that at the time Mr and Mrs C had two other income protection policies.  As these  
related to other borrowing, Natwest advised that they would still benefit  from taking  out an 
income protection policy to cover the new borrowing they were  arranging.
And since Mr C already had a more expensive income protection policy in place, the new 
one would pay out a level that better  fitted in with their circumstances and their existing 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  It also helped to ensure that if he needed to make 
a claim on his new income protection cover, he wouldnt lost out because  of his existing PPI 
cover.
 
Obviously, I cant know for sure whether Mr C received or read the correspondence from 
Natwest. But given  what Ive seen, Im not persuaded this means the policy was mis-sold.  
The evidence and information Ive seen suggests  to me that Natwest carried  out a proper 
review of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and provided them  with their recommendations on 
that basis. 
As a final point, I see that Mr C received a payment  from Natwest  in relation to his complaint 
and other  products he took out with Natwest. To clarify, this was not a compensation 
payment for mis-sale but a payment made  due to Natwests delay in providing  its answer  
about his complaint about the income  protection policy  as well as other products he taken  
out with Natwest.
 
I realise that Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome,  but I would like to reassure him 
that I have  carefully  considered all the available  evidence  and information relating to the sale 
of the policy, including the comments Mr C made in response to our adjudicators finding. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542137