K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that MBNA Limited rejected his claim  under section 75 in respect of a 
holiday booking.
background
Mr F booked  holiday  cottage through a company I will call B for an 11 night stay.  He paid the 
supplier, C, direct with his MBNA  credit  card. He says the cottage didnt match  the 
description. There was no iron nor a hairdryer  and no garden or mountain view.  The bed was 
weak with several beams tied together supporting it. Some lights didnt work and there was 
bad smell coming from the room  which housed the fridge. He also mentioned lack of nearby 
parking.
He complained to C immediately  on his return. It said he hadnt raised any issues  while  he 
was at the cottage and hadnt allowed it to remedy the problems.  He then made  a claim 
under section 75. This was also rejected. MBNA said the issues raised were subjective and 
it noted he hadnt sought to resolve  the problems while he was staying at the cottage.
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought it would  have been reasonable to have 
expected Mr F to raise  his concerns with C or B during the holiday. The fact he hadnt  
implied the problems didnt  have  a significant impact  on his holiday. She also said that Mr F 
hadnt provided any photographic evidence of the faulty items  which  could have been 
photographed such  as the bed.
She said she had asked MBNA why it hadnt  made a chargeback and it had explained that it 
didnt think there was a reasonable chance of success.
Mr F didnt  agree and said he couldnt  provide photographic evidence of lights  not working or 
the smell.  He also explained that it had been  difficult to contact C in the lead up to the 
holiday and he didnt  want to waste the holiday waiting for C to fix the problems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain
I am satisfied there is no debtor-creditor-supplier issue and the only matter  to consider is 
whether the merchant was guilty of a clear  breach  of contract or misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN98765312On the issue of breach of contract the supplier  offered to provide the cottage for 11 nights 
and this it what it did. Mr F stayed for the entire duration of the agreed period and in that 
sense I do not see there  has been a breach of contract. He chose not to ask that the 
problems he encountered be remedied during his stay and that would indicate that they were  
not such that they were significantly detrimental  to his holiday. 
I have noted his concern that it might  have been difficult to contact C, but I think a call or an 
email would have  not been too demanding and it may well have elicited a response that 
would have resolved the problems. I dont think that would  have  imposed  on his holiday and 
I am sure the owner could  have  addressed  the issues  without  causing  him to miss out on his 
planned activities. 
As for the matter of misrepresentation I have  not seen any evidence that would allow  me to 
conclude that the cottage had been  misrepresented. I am not aware a mountain view was 
offered and there was no promise of car parking. 
While not all issues could have been  caught on a camera it would have been advantageous 
if such evidence could  have been supplied, say of the bed. Such  photographic  evidence 
combined with an effort  to raise his concerns  during the holiday would have  provided  some 
support for Mr Fs claim. Sadly, while I can see that he was disappointed with the 
accommodation I dont  consider I have enough  evidence which  would allow me to uphold  his 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
16 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9876531