K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complained that, due to Momentum  Pensions  Limited (MP) not having followed 
adequate security procedures, fraudulent withdrawals were  made  from her pension - 
resulting in significant losses.  Mrs L says that her email account was hacked and a 
fraudulent email requesting a withdrawal of £45,000 forwarded to MP by her Independent 
Financial Adviser (IFA). It was also sent, by her IFA, fraudulent new bank  details and 
withdrawals forms.  The payment of £45,000  was subsequently made, as was a further 
£15,000 quarterly  income payment (to the fraudulent account).
background
I issued a provisional decision on 4 April 2019. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was not intending to make  award  in this 
case because material liability for Mrs Ls loss was that of another business.   
MP did not make any further submissions.
Mrs L responded and said:  
She is not looking to be awarded  double payment/compensation and has considered 
FOS's preliminary findings against  the other  business involved (who  went  into 
liquidation on the 5th December 2018).  However, MP need  to be held accountable 
for their part in this process.
MP received no authorisation from Mrs L (fraudulent or not) to change Mrs L's bank 
details for her quarterly  payment  of £15,000.
MP has subsequently changed their internal policy  relating to the change of bank 
details.
Mrs Ls representative also said, in brief:
The adjudicators  previous decision had not been fully considered.  Neither had 
some previous points  that made. 
MP did not receive authorisation to change  her bank details. The forms to do so were 
not completed correctly.  MP should  have queried  this.
MP has subsequently changed its policy relating to changing bank details and it 
requests more evidence of the relevant bank account. This demonstrates it had 
insufficient checks previously. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Included in that consideration was the 
adjudicators view of the complaint and all the submissions  made  about  MPs liability.
I appreciate that Mrs L would like MP to be held to account for what she believes are its 
failings. I would highlight  that the fact a business  changes its processes is not necessarily 
evidence that before that point its systems were flawed in some way. But in any event, I set 
out in the provisional decision that the material cause of Mrs Ls losses  were the actions of 
Ref: DRN92085992another business. If that business  had not made the material errors then the losses would 
not have occurred. That business  should  make good those losses.  So MP is not liable for 
Mrs Ls loss and I do not uphold the complaint against it.
I would also confirm that my role is not to fine or punish businesses for their actions. My role 
is to investigate individual complaints and if I believe some  incorrect or unsuitable action has 
been taken by that business, decide if the consumer had been  disadvantaged  in some way. 
If they have been  financially disadvantaged  my aim is to reasonably make good that loss. I 
do not award compensation over and above  that, so I will not make an award against MP 
where it is another business which caused the loss and should make  good that loss. 
As I do not uphold the complaint against MP, I am not making an award for costs or trouble  
and upset, against it. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92085993copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs L complained  that, due to Momentum Pensions Limited (MP)  not having  followed adequate 
security procedures, fraudulent withdrawals were made from her pension  - resulting in significant  
losses. Mrs L says that her email account was hacked  and a fraudulent email requesting a 
withdrawal of £45,000 forwarded to MP by her Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA). It was also sent, 
by her IFA, fraudulent new bank details and withdrawals forms. The payment of £45,000 was 
subsequently made, as was a further £15,000 quarterly income payment (to the fraudulent account). 
background 
In 2016/2017 Mrs L was living  in Portugal and had been receiving  income payments from her self-
invested personal  pension (SIPP). The process for requesting withdrawals involved Mrs L emailing 
her IFA in the UK, completing/signing a hard copy of a withdrawal form and posting this to MP.
Prior to the disputed withdrawals taking place, six income  payments had been made varying  from 
around £5,000 to £31,000 over a 13 month period from February 2016 to March 2017. Mrs L says it 
had been agreed shed be taking around £15,000 income  per quarter going forward and the irregular  
pattern of payments  was due to an administrative  mix-up.
In June 2017  Mrs L noticed a withdrawal  for around £45,000 had been made at the end of May 2017 
which she says wasnt made with her permission.  She queried this and MP investigated the matter 
with the involvement of the Police.
A further £15,000 fraudulent withdrawal was paid out but a £55,000  withdrawal was identified  and 
blocked. It also transpired that as part of the fraud, alternative bank  account  details were  registered  - 
to which the disputed withdrawals were sent. Mrs L was unhappy with the actions of MP in respect of 
the withdrawals and the lack of information and access to her funds during the investigation of the 
issues.
An adjudicator looked into the complaint and initially felt MP hadnt done anything  wrong. He was 
however persuaded  to change his view on reviewing all the evidence.  It was his view that there were  
a number of irregularities  which, considered together,  ought  to have prompted MP to carry  out 
additional checks to establish whether or not the income  requests were  legitimate. In particular the 
adjudicator felt the pattern of withdrawals  was irregular (including a significantly larger withdrawal for 
£45,000). He felt the signatures on the various documents showed some variance and the bank  
details, provided  on a form with alterations, appeared to have been changed without any independent 
verification being sought. 
MP didnt agree and said: 
the signatures on the documents (those completed fraudulently and those previously  
witnessed by Mrs L) were sufficiently similar not to cause concern. It provided  the signatures 
from Mrs Ls SIPP application form, passport and previously completed retirement options 
forms (all completed by her) and compared these to the fraudulent signatures on the 
documents from 2017. It said there were no material  differences. 
it did not agree  that it had relied too much on the IFA. The IFA had submitted four prior 
retirement requests on her behalf.  It was the IFAs responsibility to carry out appropriate 
checks and it was the party that knew Mrs L best and was aware of her income needs.  
the IFA was fully aware of the request  to change Mrs Ls bank details, had confirmed the new 
bank account address and confirmed the payment  was to be made by BACs. It said it was not 
uncommon for a member to change  bank  account  details.
Ref: DRN92085994it had been informed by her IFA on transfer to the SIPP that Mrs L wanted to take high levels 
of income from the plan because of her specific situation. Therefore it was not unexpected 
when such withdrawals  were requested and it had noted  on its records to expect  such. Mrs L 
had taken  withdrawals  of £5,000 and £10,000 in 2016  in addition to her regular  withdrawal so 
a pattern of such  withdrawals had been established. 
it was not aware that the £45,000  withdrawal  had first been requested in dollars. The first 
notification of this withdrawal came from the IFA who said a £45,000 payment was required, 
not a $45,000 payment.  The (fraudulent) retirement options form was received on 16 May 
2017 and requested a payment in sterling. It had not sight of the correspondence  being  sent 
to the IFA prior to 12 May 2017. It only learned  of this after the fraudulent activity  had taken 
place.  
 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion  as he felt MP could have  done more  to 
protect Mrs Ls pension funds from fraud.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed that Mrs L was the victim of fraud and she lost a significant sum of money. I note that 
up until the fraud took place the process for requesting  and paying income withdrawals seemed to be 
working. However, Mrs L has said that MP did not carry out appropriate checks  and/or should have 
been aware  given what it received and instructed to do, that the withdrawal and payment instructions  
were suspicious.
Mrs L also made a complaint about her IFA about the same material issue considered here  that it 
failed to prevent the fraud. I considered that complaint separately and issued a provisional decision  
setting out my view that it was failures by the IFA that materially  allowed the fraud.  I discussed why 
the fraud would not have occurred but for its failures. I made  a provisional award that it should 
compensate Mrs L for the losses that she suffered.  
Bearing that in mind I do not intend  to uphold this complaint against MP or make any award. I have 
already decided  that the failures of the IFA materially allowed the fraud to take place,  when this could 
have been reasonably  prevented. It was therefore the IFA that would be liable to make good Mrs Ls 
loss.     
 
my provisional  decision
I do not intend  to uphold this complaint or make  any award. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9208599