K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  that she was mis-sold  an income protection  insurance policy  and a 
critical illness insurance policy with life cover by Scottish Widows  Limited.
background
In 2008, Miss S met with an adviser  from Scottish Widows while in the process of trying to 
obtain a loan from a company related to it. The adviser recommended that Miss S take out 
an income protection insurance policy and a critical illness insurance policy with life cover.  
Miss S agreed to his recommendations.
In 2015, the critical  illness policy with life cover expired.
In 2017, with the income protection policy still in force,  Miss S complained that both policies  
had been mis-sold. She said shed been  told she had to take the policies as a condition of 
obtaining her loan, that the policies were  unsuitable,  and that she hadnt been given 
sufficient information  to make an informed choice.
Scottish Widows  didnt  uphold the complaint. It was satisfied the policies had been suitable 
for Miss S and had been sold properly.
Miss S remained unhappy and referred  her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
 
When the adviser  met Miss S, he carried out a fact find to establish  her financial situation. 
This showed that she earned £4,800 a year and was taking  out a loan for £3,000  to be 
repaid over a period of seven years. Miss S was recorded as wanting to protect her income 
in case of long-term sickness. She was also recorded as wanting the loan to be paid off in 
full in the event of dying  or becoming seriously ill.
The adviser recommended an income protection policy to replace  Miss Ss income  in the 
event of long-term sickness. He suggested  this should have a deferred period of 13 weeks  to 
complement the sick pay she received from her employer. The amount of benefit  he 
recommended of £200 a month  (50% of Miss Ss earnings) was the maximum she could 
receive under the policy terms. Miss S signed  a declaration to confirm shed been given a 
document outlining the policys key features. Im satisfied this policy  was appropriate  for 
Miss S. Ive seen no evidence she was told she had to take this policy as a condition of her 
loan. I see no reasonable grounds for saying  that this policy was mis-sold.
The adviser recommended a critical illness  policy  with life cover to allow  Miss S to pay off 
her loan in the event  of dying or becoming seriously  ill. However,  while this policy was set up 
for seven  years to match the duration  of the loan, it was subject to a minimum monthly 
premium which meant the lowest amount of cover  which could be obtained  was £14,920.  
This was virtually five times as much  cover as Miss S needed.
I acknowledge that the letter of recommendation which the adviser  afterwards sent to Miss S 
made clear the level of cover and furthermore stated  We have automatically  increased your 
initial amount  of life assurance and critical illness cover, due to the minimum premium  of the 
policy. However, Im concerned that he didnt specifically  draw her attention to the extent to 
Ref: DRN93744652which she was over-insured.  Furthermore,  I would  have expected the adviser to question the 
need for critical illness cover to pay off the loan given that, in the event of her suffering  a 
serious illness, it was likely  that state benefit  in combination  with her income protection 
benefit would probably result  in Miss S having  a higher income to cover her outgoings  than 
she had currently.
In the circumstances, I dont think this was the right policy to cover a low-value, medium term 
loan, particularly given  that Miss Ss overall income was likely to rise in the event of her 
suffering a serious illness. I think that if the adviser  was still minded to make  the 
recommendation, he should have  made  it more  clear to Miss S that she was over-insured 
nearly fivefold and that she would likely  have  more than enough income  in any case to 
continue to meet loan repayments in the event of suffering a serious illness. If the adviser 
had made  these points  clear to Miss S, I think it unlikely that she would have  agreed  to take 
out the critical illness policy with life cover. I therefore think it fair that Scottish Widows refund 
Miss Ss premiums,  with interest.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Miss S accepted  the provisional decision.
Scottish Widows  didnt  accept the provisional  decision. It said the letter of recommendation 
noted that the benefit amount was increased  due to the minimum premium of £6.11  a month 
and that, after paying off the loan, the rest of the benefit could be used to help with funeral 
costs in the event  of death or to cover the loss of income for a time in the event of suffering a 
critical illness. It said Miss S had told the adviser she didnt want her family to be burdened 
with paying off the loan and that the adviser  had recommended for the benefit to be paid into 
a trust to benefit  Miss Ss young daughter which it said showed that the extra  cover  had 
been discussed. It pointed out Miss S had signed a declaration to confirm  shed  received  
and understood  the recommendation. It maintained the policy  was suitable for Miss S and 
said shed enjoyed the benefit of its protection for the full seven year term.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld in part.
I agree  that the letter of recommendation noted  the benefit amount had been increased due 
to the minimum premium and also briefly  mentioned  how the surplus benefit could be used. 
But I still dispute that this was the right product to protect  Miss Ss low-value, medium term 
loan, given that it provided  nearly  five times as much  cover as she needed.
If the adviser  nonetheless thought this was a suitable policy,  I would have expected the 
extent of the over-insurance to be highlighted. In the absence of this highlighting, and 
despite Miss S having signed a declaration,  I cant be sure she made  a fully informed 
decision.
I still think that if the adviser  had explained  things more  thoroughly  to Miss S, including  the 
fact that if she suffered  a critical illness her overall  income would probably increase,  it is 
unlikely she would have  agreed to take out the critical illness policy  with life cover.  I therefore  
consider, even though she kept the policy for its full term, Miss S should now be refunded 
her premiums for this policy.   
Ref: DRN93744653my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Scottish Widows  Limited to refund Miss S the premiums she paid for the critical 
illness policy  with life cover. I further require Scottish  Widows Limited to add interest  to this 
refund at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each premium  was paid to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Scottish Widows considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN9374465