K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF).
background
In August  2018  Mr B was supplied  with a second  hand car and entered  into a conditional 
sale agreement with BPF. The price of the car was £14,540.98.  Mr B paid a deposit of £2700  
and BPF advanced a loan for the balance. The total amount repayable  was £17,047.68  
payable over 48 months at £298.91 per month. 
In or around September 2018 Mr B contacted BPF and asked to reject  the car on the 
grounds that his warranty had been mis-sold. The complaint was brought  to this service  but 
it was explained  to Mr B that we couldnt  look into it. Whilst in contact with this service about 
the warranty complaint,  Mr B raised a further complaint that the engine oil light had 
illuminated on the car.
Whilst Mr Bs complaint was being  investigated  by BPF he reported  that the oil light had 
illuminated twice  more and that hed had to top up the oil.
In March 2019 the car went for an MOT. A list of recommended works was given to Mr B by 
the garage, some of which were  urgent.  Mr B said the garage also told him that the oil level 
was low.
In response to Mr Bs concerns, BPF offered to arrange an independent inspection of the 
car. This didnt happen however, because Mr B says he wasnt  contacted  within 48 hours to 
arrange an appointment. Mr B says he already knows (from the repeated  oil light 
illumination) that theres a problem with the car and hes not prepared  to wait any longer for 
a resolution.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
show that there was a fault with the car.
Mr B didnt agree. He felt that he had provided evidence which showed that he had been 
sold a faulty car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BPF supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement theres an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than wear and tear.
Ref: DRN92115632Mr B and BPF disagree about  whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. In order to reach  a decision  I need  to consider all of the available evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether I think  the car was of satisfactory quality.
Mr B says he first experienced issues with the oil light illuminating in November 2018.  
Despite topping up the oil, he says the oil light illuminated again  in November 2018 and 
again in February  2019. 
Where a fault presents itself within 6 months  of the point of supply, its generally up to the 
business to put thigs  right. After 6 months the burden is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. The first step is to establish whether  
there is a fault.
A warning light doesnt necessarily mean  that theres a fault with the car. Ive looked at the 
report which Mr B obtained from the garage  which carried  out the MOT in March 2019.  This 
report highlights a number  of issues with the car. It doesnt mention any issues with the oil, 
apart from the fact that it is low.
Ive taken into account the fact that the car was seven years old at the point of supply with 
high mileage. As cars get older,  its likely that the component parts will require repair or 
replacement due to wear and tear. Looking at the nature of the issues  identified by the 
garage, it seems  more  likely that these issues relate to serviceable  parts.  Because  of this, I 
cant say that just because some  parts  required replacement on Mr Bs car after 
approximately 7 months that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The report  from the garage doesnt  offer any assistance in establishing whether theres a 
fault with the car which is causing the car to lose oil. Given  that Mr B had experienced the oil 
light illuminating on at least 3 occasions by the time the car went  for an MOT, I would have 
expected him to mention  this to the garage and asked it to investigate. Theres nothing  in the 
report to suggest  that Mr B raised  the issue of the oil light illuminating.
I can see from the photos provided by Mr B that the oil light is illuminated. But the photos 
alone dont tell me whether this is due to a fault.  I understand  that Mr B feels  that the 
presence of the warning  light is self -proving. However, this isnt enough for me to safely 
conclude that there  is a fault.
In circumstances  where it hasnt been established that there  is a fault,  this service would 
expect the finance provider to obtain  an independent report  to comment  on whether  theres  a 
fault and the possible cause. I can see that BPF offered to arrange an inspection.  This didnt 
go ahead  because Mr B felt that it wasnt arranged in a timely manner. I cant  agree  with Mr 
B here, because it was only 48 hours  after BPF offered to arrange the inspection that Mr B 
refused to go ahead  with it.
In this case I think that an independent  inspection is the only way in which it can be 
established whether the car has a fault which was present  at the point of supply.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr B has experienced problems with the car but there isnt enough 
evidence for me to conclude that there is a fault which was present at the point of supply.
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im unable  to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. So I wont be asking BPF to do anything further.
Ref: DRN92115633my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9211563