K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy about the interest  hes been charged on a TSB Bank plc loan and with the 
customer service  hes received. 
background 
In January 2017, Mr S took out a loan of £6,000 with TSB. After a week, Mr S decided he 
didnt want the loan and withdrew  from the loan agreement, repaying the entire amount lent 
to him. He says he was told by TSB at the time that he wouldnt be charged  any fees and 
that the loan was now paid off. 
However, a few days later, £30 interest was added to the loan account. TSB wrote  to Mr S in 
February 2017, advising that the final payment due for the loan would be taken in March,  
and then the account would be closed. As the direct debit set up to make  the required  
repayments had by this time been  cancelled, attempts to collect these  funds were  rejected. 
TSB continued to write to Mr S, along the same lines, each  month until April 2018. Each 
month, the outstanding sum increased, as the interest was compounded;  i.e. further interest  
accrued on the interest owed. Mr S has said that he didnt receive these  letters.
In May 2018, TSB wrote to Mr S advising that the account was now in arrears.  And that 
payment of these arrears  was required.  By this point  the sum owed had increased  to around 
£42. TSB also issued a default notice, and charged Mr Ss current  account  with a £25 fee. 
Mr S has said that he called TSB each time he received these letters  in 2018, and was 
apparently advised there was an error. The £25 was also refunded to his account.  Mr S also 
had problems getting through to TSB on these calls, and experienced long waiting  times.
As the issue  hadnt  been resolved, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator thought  that the interest was something  that Mr S owed. But that, TSB wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been when communicating with Mr S and hed also had long waiting 
times on the phone. So she felt that whilst  Mr S did need to settle the outstanding sum, TSB 
should compensate  him for these points. 
Ultimately, TSB agreed to pay £150 in compensation. Mr S maintained that he didnt owe 
TSB any outstanding sum, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, largely  for the same reasons.
Unfortunately, TSB hasnt  been able to supply a recording of the call where  Mr S cancelled  
the loan. So I dont know exactly what was discussed. But I also have no reason to doubt Mr 
Ss comments over what he was told. His comments are largely in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. No fees were  added for cancelling  the loan with the first 14 days. 
I can also see that the full balance  of £6,000  was repaid at that point. So, at that time, the 
loan account had a zero balance, which may have caused some confusion.
Ref: DRN95910442However, because  Mr S had owed  TSB £6,000 for a week, interest  was accrued on this sum 
and this was added  at the start of the following month. The terms and conditions of the loan 
make it clear  that interest  will be charged  for the period of the loan, even  where a customer 
withdraws from the agreement within the first 14 days. This interest was added  in line with 
this and then compounded each  month. 
It seems  most likely that TSB didnt advise Mr S that this would happen when he spoke to it 
in January 2017. And I think TSB should  have  been  clearer. 
But I do think the terms of the loan are clear. And TSB did then write to Mr S each  month, 
telling him that he had an outstanding balance that was due to be collected. And each month 
this amount increased (by around £1 each month). I appreciate Mr S has said he didnt 
receive any of these letters. But they are addressed to his postal address at the time. So I 
think its most likely  that TSB did send  them to him. And I cant hold TSB responsible  for 
Mr S not receiving them.
Ultimately, because Mr S was in debt to TSB for the full lending for about a week,  I think  its 
fair and reasonable that he owe the interest  on this sum. Borrowing comes  at a cost,  and 
Mr S is liable for this. 
However, I also agree that TSBs communication hasnt  been as good as it shouldve been. 
It shouldve been  clearer in January 2017. It also didnt provide as good a service  as could 
reasonably have been expected from May 2018. This was largely a result  of the increased 
volume of calls and complaints TSB received following the IT problems it had from April 
2018. But this did have an impact on the service it was able to provide Mr S. And it is fair 
that it compensate  Mr S for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Whilst I consider it fair that TSB Bank  plc recover the money owed by Mr S, TSB should  pay 
him £150 compensation. In the circumstances of this particular complaint, I think TSB should 
settle the balance of the loan account by reducing  the compensation accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9591044