K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Legal & General  Insurance  Limited (L&G)  has voided his contents 
insurance policy, returned the premium  and declined a claim hed made.  
background
In October  2017 Mr W had a watch stolen  from his bag after he had collected  it from the 
jewellers that had just serviced it. He made a claim on his then household contents 
insurance policy. The insurer accepted the claim and settled it. 
In December 2017 Mr W applied on the internet for an insurance policy,  which  L&G 
underwrites. During the application Mr W was asked if he had made any household claims 
for loss, damage or liability during the last three  years. He answered  no to that question  and 
didnt declare the watch claim hed made  a couple  of months earlier.
In early 2018 Mr Ws home suffered a fire. He made a claim to L&G. At this point it became 
aware of a claim he had made on his previous household insurance policy, but which he 
hadnt told it about when he applied for the L&G policy. L&G decided  to void (treat it as if it 
had never  existed)  Mr Ws policy and refund the premium he had paid to it. L&G explained 
that this was because if it had been told about the earlier claim, it wouldnt have offered a 
policy.
Mr W complained  to L&G about its decision,  but it didnt change its mind,  so he referred  his 
complaint to this service.  
Mr W said that he hadnt declared the claim because  the loss happened away from the 
home, it was out of his control and he didnt think it applied. In addition, he questioned L&Gs  
voidance of the policy for the reasons given. He said hed returned to the same website after 
the claim was declined and went through the quotation system, this time declaring the 
previous claim. He says he was still offered a policy. Unfortunately, he was unable  to provide 
any details of this quote to our investigator, but said that hed given the quote number to the 
underwriter at L&G who was looking at his appeal.
L&G provided its underwriting criteria  from the time Mr W had applied  for his policy.  This 
showed that it didnt accept applications  for insurance where a claim or loss had been  
suffered in the preceding  12 months. L&G also provided screenshots  of the process Mr W 
went through when  he applied  for his policy. It detailed a claim made  two months  earlier and 
it was clearly shown that the website wouldnt move forward due to a claim being  made  less 
than 12 months earlier.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Unhappy with that conclusion, Mr W asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman 
for review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr W applied  for his policy  he was asked if hed made any household claims for loss 
during the previous five years. I think this is a clear question and, given that Mr W had 
Ref: DRN95773932claimed under his household contents  insurance policy  only two months earlier,  I think 
reasonable he should have answered yes to the question. 
Mr W has said that this was a mistake and he didnt  connect the loss outside the home with 
a household claim. I accept that this is the case and as such, it was an inadvertent  or 
careless mistake. In such  a situation an insurer is entitled to look at what  it would have done, 
had the mistake by the policyholder not happened. In this case,  L&G has provided  its 
underwriting criteria for the policy in question. This shows that it wouldnt  have  accepted the 
application because  it doesnt insure where a claim  has been made within  the last 
12 months. 
In the situation  where an insurance policy wouldnt have been  issued,  but for a mistake by 
the policyholder,  an insurer  is entitled  to void the policy upon return of the premium. In this 
case, Mr W has said that he doesnt  believe L&G is telling the truth.  This is because  he says 
he went through the quotation process  again, after he was told the policy  was being voided, 
and was still offered  a policy. If that were the case I would possibly question  the information  I 
had been provided by L&G about  its underwriting criteria. However, Mr W has been unable  
to provide any evidence of this second  quote  for a policy. The remainder of the evidence  I 
have regarding this issue supports L&Gs underwriting  criteria being  that a policy  wouldnt 
have been offered.
Mr W has said that he provided L&G with the number for the quote when he spoke to the 
member of its underwriting department  who was considering his appeal against the decision. 
Unfortunately, L&Gs  records  dont have any notes about such a call nor does it have a 
recording of it. Mr W appears to consider  that L&G not having  a recording of a call with the 
underwriting department as suspicious,  implying  that it may have chosen not to find this call 
as it would be to its detriment.
I have considered Mr Ws concerns. Other than his recollection of a second call with the 
underwriting department, there  is no record of it having taken place. That doesnt, however, 
mean that it didnt, as the underwriter may have failed to record  it on the applicable system. 
That said,  it isnt unusual  for financial services businesses to only record calls for 
departments that are considered customer-facing. An underwriting  department  wouldnt 
normally be in this category, as they would usually have limited, if any, direct contact with 
customers. As such, I dont think that L&G being  unable to find a call recording for the 
conversation Mr W has referred to indicates  wrong-doing  on L&Gs part.
Whilst I have considered everything  Mr W has said about the quote he got after L&G made  
its decision, I dont  consider  that there is sufficient evidence to outweigh  that which shows 
L&G would not have accepted his application. I know that this will come  as a disappointment 
to Mr W, but I dont  consider that L&G acted inappropriately or incorrectly when it voided his 
policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 March  2019.
Ref: DRN95773933Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9577393