K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained about  her home  insurer Tesco Underwriting  Limited  in relation to a 
claim she made following  a fire at her home. She blames Tesco  for additional damage and 
the prolonged time it took for her claim to be resolved.
background
Ms S had left her home to stay with family in September 2016  when she was notified  of a fire 
at the property. It was thought that her ex-husband (although they werent divorced at the 
time and the house, as well as the insurance were still in joint names) had started  the fire. 
Ms S notified Tesco and whilst it considered its liability for the loss, it arranged  for the 
property to be boarded  up. 
The boards  were removed though and metal  shutters were  put in their place. However, 
Ms Ss ex-husband told the security company to remove  the shutters  that this was his 
house and he didnt want it securing. He then proceeded to forcibly remove some of the 
shutters. Tenants then moved into the property  with some repairs (of a make-do nature and 
that had to be re-done later) being  carried out by them.
Tesco had decided  by this time that it would repair the property, despite the joint policyholder 
likely having been  responsible for the damage. But it said it couldnt carry out the fire repairs  
until the situation over the ownership of the property was resolved. Tesco then assisted 
Ms S with the court  action necessary in that respect.  
In 2017 the ownership issue was resolved and the tenants were  evicted that August. Ms S 
reported additional damage  and missing items. Tesco agreed to resolve all of that as part of 
the initial fire claim. However, when Tesco assessed Ms Ss personal belongings it 
discovered that she was underinsured by around  25% and possibly more if the joint 
policyholders belongings  were taken in to account. Ms S had valued her loss at £84,087. 
Tesco initially said it would settle  the claim at around  £59,000.  Ms S was unhappy  with this.
Ms S said that Tesco had been at fault for not securing the property sufficiently in 2016. She 
felt it had failed  to listen to her warnings about the garage being a weak spot in security that 
could be utilised to gain access,  and indeed it was. So Ms S said that if Tesco  had taken 
heed of her warning  and secured the garage entrance, the whole episode with the tenants  
as well as the additional costs that resulted from that, could have been avoided.  Therefore, it 
wasnt fair for Tesco to limit its pay-out for her damaged items.
Regarding the repair  of the property Ms S said Tesco had delayed starting work, after the 
tenants eviction,  for around three months. She felt there were other delays too when it came  
to Tesco  completing  snagging issues with the work  as the reinstatement neared  completion. 
She said if Tesco had acted more efficiently she could have sold the house  sooner and 
shed have had less on-going costs like the mortgage. 
Tesco reviewed the claim and concluded that it would make  additional payments to Ms S to 
ensure her whole reported loss was met. It said it didnt accept that it had failed Ms S in 
terms of securing the property. That it was clear that the joint policyholder was intent at 
gaining access at any cost. And it maintained that Ms S had been under insured. However, it 
said it hadnt properly  explained its reasoning for making a reduced  claim settlement so it 
would pay in line with the sum insured on the policy for contents (£75,000). Plus it would 
make an additional  payment  under  the buildings cover as some items that were previously 
Ref: DRN94313792listed as contents  might better be described as buildings items. That payment would mean it 
met the £84,087  figure claimed for by Ms S.
Tesco went  on to say that it would make a further  payment  in respect of alternative 
accommodation. It didnt  explain  the calculation behind this increase but said it was making it 
due to the extended period of the claim. It had noted  earlier in its correspondence that there 
had been some minor delays in the reinstatement  work.  It said the extra  sum it would pay 
was £5,680. 
Ms S complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that Tesco hadnt  failed  Ms S regarding  securing her home and that it 
had done all it could  to progress her claim. She felt that Tescos final proposed  settlement 
was fair and reasonable and wasnt minded to make  it do or pay anything else. Ms S 
remained of the view that Tesco hadnt treated her fairly and her complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this causes  Ms S, I find that my view is similar  to that expressed by our investigator. 
Which means Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint as Im satisfied that Tesco has acted  fairly  
and reasonably.
I think its fair to say, given that metal shutters were pulled  from the building,  that the joint 
policyholder was clearly  intent on gaining access to the property. He was also clearly not 
concerned about  doing  damage to the property (removing the secured metal shutters by 
force was likely to do damage). Therefore,  and whilst Ive seen no proof regarding the 
garage door,  I dont  think Tesco could reasonably have done  anything to prevent the joint 
policyholders actions. So I dont think its fair to say that Tesco has to accept  all of the 
damage and loss that followed  this as having  resulted  from its failure. In my view it was fair 
for Tesco to continue to handle  the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.   
That being  said,  it is clear  to me that Tesco, throughout  this claim, on occasions where  it 
would benefit  Ms S, has consistently chosen to overlook what might be considered the strict 
application of the policy terms. This was clearly a terrible time for Ms S  I havent included  
all of the details  of what went on in my background but Im aware  of them  and I understand 
how difficult this all was for her. And looking at how Tesco chose to handle  this claim, I think  
it understood this too. 
Its clear to me that there were a number of key issues at various points during this claim for 
Tesco that could  reasonably have  allowed it to limit its claim outlay but ultimately it didnt 
choose to rely on any of that. For example, even though this was a household policy, where 
one policyholder had moved tenants  in, Tesco  overlooked that and settled the damage 
caused by the tenants as part of the fire claim. So, looking  at everything that happened, 
I think its fair to say that Tesco  has acted on a goodwill basis throughout this claim, with a 
view to genuinely trying  to assist Ms S and that Ms S has benefitted as a result of that.
With that in mind, and despite Tescos own admission of some minor delay in the repair 
process, I think  it would  be unfair  and unreasonable to suggest that Tesco make any further 
payments to Ms S. Some delay in repairs is normal. I can see that the repairs  did start in a 
Ref: DRN94313793timely manner following  the eviction of the tenants but that problems  arose as the work 
neared completion with items found  to not have restored adequately. These then needed 
replacing which required Ms S to make choices about what she wanted installing. Other 
choices had to be made  too about  the final finishing materials. Some additional  work  was 
also found to be necessary.  Whilst I appreciate  such would be frustrating it isnt unusual  for 
snagging issues to occur and I havent seen that these should have been identified or dealt 
with sooner. But there was a delay in issuing the FENSA certificate  for the windows. 
So most of the delays  I think were nothing that wouldnt normally  be expected  in a 
reinstatement programme. The provision of the FENSA certificate didnt delay completion of 
the work  but it was a document that Ms S needed.  Tesco has never explained its delay in 
this respect but looking purely at the timeline,  I think it likely was unreasonable.  That being  
said, Tesco  has offered  an additional payment regarding alternative  accommodation  which 
seemingly is meant to acknowledge some  extra  expenditure due to the length of the claim 
likely having increased  Ms Ss outlay. Tesco hasnt explained the formula  behind that award 
so it isnt clear that it covers what Ms S feels she had to spend. However, I think  it would be 
unfair for me to consider the impact of any delays further or to criticise Tesco  for any 
relatively minor failing in respect of the reinstatement works when it has acted so 
significantly in Ms Ss favour, and well beyond what its policy required it to do, in other 
respects. Looking at the claim and settlements as a whole Im satisfied  that Tesco has acted 
fairly and reasonably. Im not going  to make  it do anything else. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9431379