K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained that Santander  UK Plc wont refund transactions  she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
what happened
Miss C went on holiday  with a group of relatives and their partners. She says a family  
member was paying for the trip, so she only took a relatively modest amount of cash, and 
also made a £57.44 withdrawal on 22 April 2019.
Between 23 April and 2 May 2019, her card was used for £637.77 of transactions she says 
were made without her permission. Miss C still had her card with her and hadnt noticed  it 
was missing. She checked  her online banking on the evening of 8 May 2019, then reported 
the transactions the following morning, first thing after she got to work.
Miss C says aside from the one withdrawal, she didnt use her card on holiday as she didnt  
need it. She kept her card in her phone case, along  with her driving licence, and several  
times she left her phone  with the bar staff to charge. Miss C says she didnt record her PIN 
or tell it to anyone, but it was her date of birth.
Santander held Miss C liable for the payments in dispute. It felt there wasnt  a likely way 
someone couldve learned or guessed Miss Cs PIN without her permission.
Our investigator looked into things independently, and upheld the complaint. He said in the 
circumstances it made  sense why Miss C might not have  noticed her card was missing, and 
it seemed she was unaware of the disputed  transactions until she checked her online 
banking and reported them. He felt it was likely  someone Miss C knew  had done this without 
her permission. He could see why her actions could be considered negligent,  but not grossly 
negligent. He also felt Santander had given Miss C poor customer  service over the phone.
Santander didnt  agree. They felt Miss C had either authorised the payments or been grossly 
negligent. So the complaints been passed  to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Santanders technical evidence shows that the payments in dispute used Miss Cs genuine 
card, and the correct PIN. But this is not enough, on its own, for Santander to hold Miss C 
liable  it also needs to be able to evidence that the transactions were made because Miss C 
consented to them, or failed  to keep her account  safe either intentionally or through  acting 
with gross negligence. Otherwise, Santander  has to refund the transactions
Ref: DRN95301372Miss C has provided a plausible and consistent  explanation about how her card couldve 
gone missing for periods,  and why she might not have  noticed. It seems reasonable that if 
her holiday  was broadly  being paid for her, she wouldnt need  to use her card beyond  the 
cash withdrawal at the start. And it seems  plausible that either the resort  staff or someone 
with Miss C couldve taken and replaced her card without her noticing. I might  not expect 
Miss C to be overly wary of people she was close to being near her phone. And while her 
phone was with the staff,  it was out of her sight.
Its possible the staff guessed that Miss Cs PIN was her date of birth, and looked at her 
driving licence  to get the date. But I cant say this is whats most likely to have happened. 
They wouldve  had to assume the number  was her date of birth, and then picked the correct 
four digits  from the date on the first try. I think its more likely  that someone  close to Miss C 
did this  they wouldve had opportunities on previous occasions to overlook her entering her 
PIN or work out what the PIN was based  on, without Miss C having reason to be suspicious.
The person  using the account primarily made cash withdrawals,  aside  from two small point 
of sale transactions.  They  kept withdrawing money  until the account was empty, then made 
several more attempts at different amounts to get as much money out as possible. This 
seems consistent with someone trying to take Miss Cs money, who  unlike Miss C  
wouldnt have been aware of how much  might actually be available.
Miss Cs behaviour indicates  she was genuinely  unaware of the payments. She didnt check  
her balance during  the holiday, nor did she feel she had a need  to, so she wasnt aware of 
the payments  earlier. Towards the end of the trip, she tried to pay a phone bill but was 
unsuccessful. But by that point, the person using her card had already  drained  her account. 
If that was Miss C, it seems  unlikely shed then try to pay a bill if she already knew  her 
account had been drained.  It looks like she wasnt aware of the transactions  until she 
checked her account  after the holiday.  Then she reported them  without undue  delay.
Taking into account everything  thats  been  said and provided, Im not persuaded that Miss C 
consented to the disputed  transactions.
Ive also thought about whether Miss C acted with gross negligence. It seems  reasonable to 
say she acted negligently in leaving her card unattended for periods, and in setting the PIN 
to a number people could potentially work out.
But gross negligence  is a much higher standard than normal negligence.  It involves a very 
serious disregard to an obvious risk. And I dont think I can say Miss C was grossly negligent 
to ask staff members to charge her phone when the card was with it. I dont think  that that is 
so unusual or outright reckless that it meets the bar of gross negligence.  And I dont think  
Miss C had sufficient reason at the time to suspect  that someone close to her might  try to 
take the card. Nor did she have good  reason to be regularly checking  her account or double-
checking her cards whereabouts while on this particular holiday.
Similarly, while Miss Cs PIN was her date of birth, it wasnt   for example  written down or 
recorded with the card in a recognisable way, or told to anyone. So I dont think she acted 
with such recklessness that Santander  can hold her liable for the transactions.  So in the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  Im not persuaded that Miss C was grossly negligent. 
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of the account. But I cant  see that Miss C 
deliberately failed to comply with her obligations  to keep the account secure in a way that 
was intentional.
Ref: DRN95301373I think this is a finely balanced case,  and I understand Santanders point of view.  But based 
on the evidence  and the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely  that Miss C did not 
authorise the disputed payments, and did not fail to keep her account secure  either with 
intent or gross negligence.
Lastly, I agree with our investigator  that Santander gave poor customer  service  to Miss C 
when she reported  the fraud. The staff members language and tone implied they didnt 
believe Miss C, despite  not even starting  an investigation yet, and at points they spoke over 
her and demanded Miss C only give yes or no answers. I was similarly unimpressed with the 
tone of the staff member  who took Miss Cs initial  complaint  call on 16 May 2019. I agree 
with our investigator that Santander should  pay Miss C an additional  £150  as compensation 
for the upset it caused through poor customer service.
putting things right
Santander UK Plc should:
refund  the disputed  transactions,  including any related fees;
for the transactions  paid from Miss Cs positive balance: pay simple interest to 
Miss C on those  transactions,  at the rate of 8% simple a year,  payable  from the date 
they were last debited  until the date theyre  returned. This is to compensate  Miss C 
for the time she was without her money;
for the transactions  paid from Miss Cs overdraft: refund any interest  or charges that 
Miss C incurred because of Santander  debiting  the disputed  transactions; and-
pay Miss C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander  to take off tax from this simple interest. Santander 
must give Miss C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
I understand Miss C is in an IVA. Miss C may need  to speak with her insolvency practitioner  
about any compensation she receives.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Cs complaint, and direct Santander UK Plc to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9530137