K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about the amount  by which BUPA Insurance Limited  has increased the 
cost of his private  medical insurance policy.
background
In 2016, Mr J took out the policy with BUPA (he had previously been covered by BUPA  
through his employers group scheme). The policy provided cover for him and his family. The 
annual premium was £2,699.
In 2017, the premium increased to £3,623. Mr J complained to BUPA.  It explained the 
reasons for the increase. Mr J didnt refer the complaint to us.
In 2018, the premium increased again to £4,483. Mr J again complained to BUPA. It 
explained the reasons for the increase but also gave him two months free cover which  
reduced the premium  by £747. However,  it confirmed  that this reduction wouldnt apply to 
future years.
Mr J was unhappy at BUPAs response  and referred  his complaint to us. He said BUPAs  No 
Claims Discount (NCD) scheme was unfair  because  claims relating to the same course of 
treatment and which were  close together timewise could nonetheless affect the NCD in two 
different years.  He believed BUPAs overall  pricing approach was unfair, particularly as 
private medical insurance policies were different to other annually renewable insurance 
policies in that the policyholder wasnt necessarily able to switch provider without losing 
cover for pre-existing conditions. He wanted  BUPA to reduce his premium to the level it was 
in 2016 and to refund the excess amount  he had paid.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that BUPA had applied the NCD as outlined in the policy document and had calculated his 
premium fairly.
Mr J didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He felt that BUPA was pricing him out of 
continuity of cover and that this was unfair.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the approach that it is up to an insurer to decide  how much to charge for 
its policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with 
its internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we dont normally  interfere.
Mr Js policy  certificate  explains how the NCD scheme operates. The member moves  up or 
down a discount scale dependent on the value  of claims BUPA has approved for payment 
during the relevant twelve month calculation period. The calculation  period doesnt exactly  
match the policy year.  I consider the explanation  is clear. I dont find the scheme to be unfair. 
It is unfortunate that Mr J and his wife each made claims which straddled two different 
Ref: DRN95995642calculation periods. This meant their NCD was affected not only at renewal in 2017 but also 
in 2018. While I appreciate Mr Js frustration at this, Im satisfied that BUPA correctly applied 
the terms of the scheme. I cant reasonably conclude it did anything wrong. 
Mr J has expressed  concern more generally about  the scale of the increase to his policy.  
BUPA has explained  to us the other reasons for the increase in 2018  (I cant comment  on 
the increase in 2017 because Mr J didnt refer his complaint to us after he received a final 
response letter from BUPA about  that increase).  I find BUPAs explanation reasonable. Im 
satisfied that BUPA  has calculated the 2018 premium accurately  and fairly.  It has charged 
Mr J the same amount  as it would have charged anyone  else in his situation. I note that, 
after he complained,  BUPA  gave Mr J a discount  equivalent to two months worth of cover. I 
dont think it was obliged  to do this and cant tell it that it must continue  to offer this discount 
in future.
I understand Mr Js concern about the policy eventually  becoming unaffordable, particularly 
given the potential difficulties over switching  to a different provider. However, as the 
adjudicator has explained,  we are not a regulator. We cant tell BUPA  to change its pricing 
model or compel it to provide Mr Js future  cover  for a lower  premium. If Mr J considers that 
there is a fundamental flaw in the way the market for private medical insurance operates he 
should raise these concerns with either the Financial Conduct  Authority  or the Competition  
and Markets Authority.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9599564