K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) refused to offer him a top-up loan which  he 
needed in order  to pay for urgent  dental treatment.
background 
Mr B says he attended his local TSB branch in June 2018 and spoke to a cashier  about  
taking out a top-up loan of £1,500. He needed the money to pay for urgent oral surgery  
recommended by his dentist. He says the cashier  told him he wasnt eligible for the loan, but 
was unable to tell him why. And he adds  that when he pushed  for an explanation  he was told 
he would  need  to check his own credit file  and to come back after a few weeks once the 
banks systems had refreshed.
Mr B says he was surprised at the refusal as he had held an account with TSB for over 20 
years and had never before been refused credit by them.  So he carried  out a credit check 
and established  that he had an excellent  credit score.  He was advised  by the credit 
reference agency that he was eligible for the best available  rates for all forms of borrowing. 
Mr B took out a loan with another bank,  and used some of the money to repay  his existing  
TSB loan;  however  the interest  rate was higher than TSB was offering at the time.
Mr B says the loan refusal had a significant impact on him. He had to cancel the surgery 
which had been  scheduled for July. He suffered high levels of stress and sleepless nights, 
worrying about whether the surgery could go ahead. And he also lost two days paid work, 
as he needed  time to identify an alternative lender and to explore other ways to fund his 
surgery. 
Mr B says he had to wait over a month to secure a loan with another bank and as a result  his 
surgery was delayed from July until September. He says the extra stress caused by the loan 
refusal led to the worsening of his condition  - to the extent that a wisdom tooth which  had 
previously been  fine suddenly became loose and had to be extracted. 
Mr B says this experience  has caused him to lose all faith in TSB which is why he closed his 
account. Because he transferred elsewhere,  he says his credit score was affected. He feels  
he should be compensated  for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. 
TSB says its unable to offer a clear explanation about why Mr B was told he wasnt  able to 
apply for a top-up loan. It explains that as he closed his account  its no longer possible to 
make an assessment of his eligibility  for a top-up loan. It also says its records  show  no 
formal application  was ever made - so it can only speculate on whether or not, if he had 
actually formally applied, his application  would have been accepted.
TSB acknowledged Mr B should have received a better standard of customer service when 
he attended its branch  and offered  him £50 compensation.  Our investigator agreed that its 
offer was a fair one.
Mr B disagreed, saying  a sum of £1,500  would be more reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same
Ref: DRN94983042overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
The key issues I need to decide  upon  are: whether Mr B attended a TSB branch and was 
told he was ineligible  for a loan; if he was told this, whether TSB acted incorrectly;  and 
finally, whether the £50 compensation it offered  him for poor customer  service was 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
TSB doesnt dispute  Mr B attended  its branch and spoke to a cashier about applying for a 
loan. And it also considers it likely  he was told he was ineligible.  It says there are a number 
of reasons why he may have been  told this, but its impossible to confirm exactly what  
happened now. This is because when he closed  his account, the relevant records were 
automatically deleted.  
From what  Ive seen, its likely what he was told was based on a snapshot loan score which  
is generated by TSBs internal system  without  the need for a credit  check.  It provides the 
cashier with a score which indicates  the likelihood a loan will be offered. TSB says the most 
likely reason Mr B was told he was ineligible was that he took two loan repayment holidays 
in October 2017  and January 2018.  So its possible Mr B didnt meet  TSBs  lending criteria 
for the top-up loan. I dont  think  TSB did anything wrong in telling Mr B that, as it would have 
stopped him from going through an unnecessary application process.
I agree  the cashier could have been  more helpful; for instance  they could have advised Mr B 
he could still make a full application  and that a loan adviser would be able to offer him more  
help and advice.  
This brings  me to the question of compensation. TSB has acknowledged that what its 
cashier said to Mr B could  have  been  clearer  and it offered him £50 to compensate  him for 
the inconvenience he was caused. Mr B feels that this is inadequate for the amount of stress 
and inconvenience  he suffered. 
He says the delay in being able to arrange  a loan with another lender led to his surgery  
being rescheduled from early July until September. However I can see Mr B arranged  a loan 
with a different  provider  within  five days of his visit to the TSB branch, so its not clear  why it 
was necessary to delay  the surgery  and particularly for such  a lengthy period.  In any 
event, I dont think it would be fair to attribute  this delay  to TSB. 
Mr B also says that he had to take two days off work  to sort out the alternative  loan to 
research other funding options.  I feel this is something he could reasonably  have expected 
to do in his spare time, particularly with so many online options now available.  
I therefore believe TSBs offer of £50 in respect  of the poor service offered  in its branch is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN94983043my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is TSB Bank plcs offer of £50 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already, TSB should  pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9498304