K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
carrying out repairs under  a home  emergency policy. He wants compensation.
background 
Mr S had a home emergency policy with British Gas,  which  covered repairs required to his 
propertys plumbing.  In October 2018,  Mr S had an issue with an upstairs toilet  (situated 
above the kitchen), which was repaired by British Gas. But a month  later, the kitchen ceiling  
collapsed and Mr S said that the collapse was caused by a leak from the same part of the 
toilet repaired by British  Gas. The entire  ceiling had to be removed  and there was water  
damage to the property.  Another insurance  policy is dealing  with the resulting claim.
Mr S complained to British Gas, and said that he should get compensation as it affected  their 
Christmas plans. It said it had let Mr S down and its workmanship  had been  poor.  
British Gas said it was working  with the other insurer involved and paid Mr S £50 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Mr S complained to us, noting that the damage affected his wifes business and reduced his 
income temporarily as hed had to cancel work to deal with the consequences  of the collapse 
of the ceiling. British Gas confirmed that it would also pay the excess  for the other insurance 
policy if it was found to be liable when dealing with the other insurer, though  it later told this 
service that it was liable.
The investigators view was that British Gas had now accepted liability for the leak which  
caused the damage (being dealt  with by the other  insurer). She thought it was fair and 
reasonable for it to pay for the financial losses suffered by Mr S wife (who was unable to 
work from home  and had to refund £368.40 to her clients), together with interest  at 8% 
simple a year from the date she refunded  the clients to the date British Gas refunded  her. 
The investigator didnt  think Mr S lost income should be refunded  as she thought he was 
likely to have done the work later and could  reschedule. But she said the compensation for 
trouble and upset  should  be increased to £500  as Mr S had to deal with builders, building  
work and visitors  due to the leak. The investigator  also noted that British Gas would refund 
the £250 excess for the other insurance  policy when dealing with that insurer.
Mr S accepted the investigators view, but British Gas didnt. It offered £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill. This service sent evidence  of Mr S and his wifes lost earnings to British  Gas, who 
changed its offer to £368.40 for financial loss and an additional £150  for inconvenience. This 
offer was rejected and this service  confirmed that it thought the investigators view was fair. 
British Gas offered  to add interest to the financial loss claim and another  £50. This offer 
wasnt accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has accepted that its at fault and caused the leak, which led to significant 
damage and disruption. Another insurer is dealing with the damage, and I understand that 
the insurers are liaising over the excess fee for the other insurance policy.  As British  Gas 
has accepted  liability, I would expect the excess to be dealt  with at its expense.
Ref: DRN93100332The core of this complaint  is therefore about the financial losses caused by the poor 
workmanship and compensation for trouble and upset. Having considered  the evidence,  I 
think Mr S simply rearranged his work and hasnt  suffered financial loss. But its also clear, 
as British Gas accepts, that Mr S wife was unable  to carry out her work at home  due to the 
leak and damage,  and has shown  she refunded  the affected clients.  The financial loss is 
£368.40, and its fair and reasonable  for this to be refunded by British Gas,  together  with 8% 
simple interest a year from the date Mrs S refunded the clients to the date British Gas 
refunds the money.
The parties are divided  on the subject of compensation for trouble and upset. British  Gas 
now accepts that £50 isnt fair or reasonable.  Mr S and his family, due to British  Gas failure, 
has suffered shock and upset at their ceiling collapsing, have had their Christmas plans 
affected, dealt  with various visitors  and builders  attending their property and the 
inconvenience of the actual repair works, and had their work affected.  While money  never 
truly compensates for trouble and upset, bearing in mind all the circumstances and the 
evidence, I think a total of £500 compensation is fair and reasonable (this includes the £50 
already paid).
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mr S £368.40 plus interest as outlined above for financial loss and £500  for trouble and 
upset (minus £50 already paid until the cheques can no longer be honoured). Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision before  16 August  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9310033