K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the level of service provided by esure Insurance  Limited  after he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy for repair of a windscreen  chip.  He wants  his 
policy excess refunded.
background
Mr S made a claim on his policy for a chip on his cars windscreen  to be repaired. But he 
was unhappy  that esures  agent cracked  the windscreen when  attempting  the repair.  Mr S 
thought this was because  the air temperature was too high. He said he was then told that he 
wouldnt have to pay his policy  excess for a replacement windscreen. But the agent wouldnt 
make the replacement without the excess being paid. The agent  then told Mr S that it would 
look at making a goodwill gesture. But it then didnt offer this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
agents Terms of Business stated that the repair might lead to a crack.  She thought the days  
temperature was within the limits for a repair to be made. She thought Mr S hadnt been told 
he wouldnt  have to pay his policy excess. She didnt  think  esure needed to make Mr S a 
gesture of goodwill as it had done nothing wrong.
Mr S replied  that the agent had tried to make the repair in unsuitable conditions. Mr S said 
that he only agreed for the agent to replace the windscreen when  he thought it would offer a 
partial refund.  He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  So its come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I can see that Mr Ss policy states that there is £100  excess payable in the case of a 
replacement windscreen.  I can also see that the agent sent Mr S its Terms of Business 
before it attended  the first time. These state that a repair isnt guaranteed and cracking may 
occur. And, if the consumer is making  a claim for replacement  through  insurance, then the 
policy excess is payable. So I think Mr S was reasonably made aware that his policy  excess  
was payable. And I think he was reasonably warned that a repair  might  not be successful. 
Mr S said that the agent attempted the repair in unsuitable weather conditions. He thought  
the car should  have been repaired  in the agents warehouse  where it would be cooler. But 
Ive seen that the recommended  temperature range for an effective  repair is between 0 to 29 
degrees. The agent recorded the temperature  at the time as 28 degrees.  So I cant  say that 
the agent attempted the repair  in unsuitable conditions. 
Ref: DRN95530742Mr S said he wouldnt  have agreed to the replacement  if he hadnt been  promised  a partial 
refund. Ive listened  to the phone  calls between Mr S and the agent. In the earlier  call, the 
agent said that if the technician was deemed  to be at fault, it might  replace the windscreen  
free of charge. But this wasnt confirmed by the technician who came  to replace the 
windscreen. The agent later said it would look into making a gesture of goodwill. But I didnt 
hear the agent assure Mr S that it would refund his excess. 
So I think esures agent reasonably warned Mr S that the repair might not be successful. I 
cant see that the repair was made during unsuitable conditions. I think Mr S was made 
aware that he would  have  to pay his policy excess for a replacement windscreen. I didnt 
hear the agent tell Mr S that it would make him a refund.  And, as esure  hasnt made a 
mistake, I dont require  it to pay Mr S anything as a gesture of goodwill. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9553074