K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in January 2000.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs P bought the policy in January 2000.  The PPI was sold to her when she applied  for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ps credit agreement. This shows Mrs P was given  
the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under  the section Account Cover  Mrs P was 
asked to sign if she wanted the PPI. Looking at Mrs Ps credit  agreement, I can see she 
signed next to the statement Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account
Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant premium  until further 
notice.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not Mrs P would have understood 
the PPI, was optional.  And I dont think she would have signed  for the cover  if she didnt 
want to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs P chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs P has told us she would have received at least three months sick pay from her employer 
if she was too unwell to work. Shes  also told us that she had some  savings.
Ref: DRN98225812Having thought about what  Mrs P has said about  her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means she wouldnt have  found the policy useful. I say this because  the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs P would have received from her employer and would 
have paid out for longer.  The PPI also would have paid a benefit  if Mrs P was ever made 
redundant and would have enabled  her to use her savings for any other  financial 
responsibilities she may have had.
So overall, I think Mrs P could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9822581