K820x#14Complaint
Mr K has complained about a life and critical illness protection policy  that he was sold by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. He has said he doesnt  remember taking this policy out. He feels  the 
signature on the documents is not his and another of his policies was cancelled  without his 
authorisation.
Background
In April 2012 Mr K took out a life protection  and critical illness policy  for cover  of £35,000 
over a term of 28 years. The policys aim was to provide protection  for his family in the event  
of his death or him suffering a critical illness. The sum assured and premiums were  set up to 
increase on a yearly  basis to keep in line with inflation. Prior to this Mr K had taken a 
mortgage protection plan in 2000  to cover some borrowing  he had taken. This policy  
appears to have lapsed in 2012  at which  point  Mr K took out the protection  policy  currently  in 
question. 
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
was satisfied, from the information  provided,  that Mr K had agreed to take out the policy  in 
2012 and had signed declaring his agreement for the policy. He was also satisfied that Mr K 
had known that the policy he had taken out in 2000  had been  cancelled. 
Mr K didnt agree with the assessment. As no agreement has been reached the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr K has said he doesnt think he agreed to take out the policy in 2012  or cancel the one 
from 2000. So, in order to decide  this I have to look at all the information presented to see 
whether his claim can be supported.
From the information provided to me by Lloyds I am satisfied that Mr K agreed  to take the 
policy in 2012.
I have seen the financial report that was completed  at the time of the sale.  This provided  
details of Mr Ks income and whether  he had any planned or potential spending in the future 
(in this case  it was for home  improvements).  It also set out what  protection he already had in 
place including  any benefits he held with his employer. This report also clearly  identifies 
family protection need. And also documented how much Mr K was prepared  to spend on the 
policy. 
I have also seen another report again  completed  at the time of the sale which  records  Mr Ks 
personal details  including  his employment and living status,  his income  and liabilities and 
expenditure and anything  he held on deposit  or in investments. This report  even recorded 
the fact that Mr K had recently sold a property and had moved  in with his in-laws. And that 
he was preparing for a loft conversion.
Ref: DRN93114162So, in light of the details in these  reports I think it unlikely  the policy was taken without Mr Ks 
knowledge. These details would have  been  made up by Lloyds, it would have had to have 
come from Mr K himself. Therefore, Mr K must have known about  the policy and agreed to 
take it out.
I have also seen that Mr K signed a document which confirmed the risks and nature of the 
policy had been  explained to him and that he understood them. I know  Mr K says the 
signature on this document is not his, however, in light of the other  reports  I have mentioned  
and the details they contained I think its very unlikely  his signature would have been forged.
Lloyds has also provided a detailed account of the meeting  Mr K had with the adviser in 
2012 when the policy was taken.  I can see the meeting took place on 13 April 2012  and that 
as he had no other protection in place  there  was a shortfall in his family protection needs. 
I can also see that a policy for a higher  amount was first recommended but after Mr K 
reduced how much he was willing to spend on the policy the adviser  recommend a policy  for 
a lower protection amount  which  is the one Mr K took out. So, again, I think  its very unlikely 
that Mr K was not party to this information at the time of the sale.
Ive also seen the letters that have  been sent to Mr K each year since the policys inception 
informing him of the increases in the policy. These letters provided Mr K with the option  of 
not accepting  the increase each year but at no point  did Mr K contact Lloyds. I have no 
reason to think they were not received. Therefore, I think  its likely  Mr K would have been 
aware that he held this policy for several  years given he received letters each year about it.
Turning now to the policy Mr K took out in 2000 which  he says was cancelled without his 
authorisation, the information I have states  that the last premium  for this protection  policy  
was taken by Lloyds on 21 March 2012. As no further payments could be collected for this 
policy letters  about the unpaid premiums were  sent to Mr K over the following four months.  A 
cancellation letter was also sent to him on 26 July 2012 after Lloyds had not heard anything  
from Mr K about the missed premiums. I have checked the address on those letters, and it is 
the same  address as Mr K has now. So, I think its likely Mr K would have received those 
letters and therefore would have known that the policy  taken out in 2000  was about to be 
cancelled because he had stopped  paying for it. 
Overall therefore given all of the information I have seen I am satisfied that Mr K was fully 
aware that he was taking  out a life and critical illness protection  policy  in 2012.  And I think  he 
would have been aware of the policys existence  every year when he received letters  from 
Lloyds informing him of the increases in the policy. I am also satisfied that Mr K was fully 
aware the policy from 2000 had been  cancelled and he would have received the letters  
querying the stopped premiums and one confirming cancellation of the policy.
Ref: DRN93114163My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9311416