K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  wrongly declined  a claim he made  on his 
motor insurance policy  after his car was stolen.
background
Mr K was working in an allotment that was protected by a metal railing and locked metal 
gates. As he considered  the allotment to be a secure, private space, he left the car with its 
windows open  and the key in the ignition.  Mr K then heard a bang as a thief drove his car 
through the metal gates onto the main road. The car wasnt recovered.  
Ageas rejected the claim  on the basis that the cars  windows were  open, the doors  were  
unlocked and the keys were in the ignition. It said Mr K had told it the car was 20 feet away  
from where he was working  and that he couldnt  see it due to a hedge.  It said hed breached  
a policy  term and that he was required to take reasonable  steps  to protect  the car.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He thought  Ageas had acted 
reasonably. He said the car was in a location that was visible  from the main  road.  Mr K 
hadnt secured  it, thereby giving the thief the chance to take it. He said the allotments  metal 
gates werent enough  of a hindrance to prevent the car being driven away. 
Mr K said the behaviour  of the thief wasnt foreseeable. He said people who used the 
allotment generally  left their cars unlocked with the keys in the ignition. He said that was 
because they were sure it was totally secure.  There had never  been  a theft previously. 
Mr K didnt think anyone seeing his car from the road would have known the windows were  
open  or that a thief would have been  able to climb over the railings without being seen. He 
said the insurance policys conditions were draconian.      
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
The term Ageas relied on said the loss of or damage  to a car wouldnt be covered if no-one 
was in it and any window or door was left open or unlocked  or the keys were left in the car.  
Most motor insurance policies have a similar  term. Leaving a car with its doors and windows 
open - or just unlocked - makes it easier for a thief to get into a car. Leaving  the keys in the 
ignition usually makes  it very easy for the thief to drive the car away quickly.   
Mr K accepts that he didnt comply  with the policys terms and conditions, but he thinks there 
were extenuating circumstances. We dont always think its reasonable for an insurer to 
decline a claim when  a car has been  left open or with a key in it. We look at all the facts. 
That includes where the car was and whether the consumer could have deterred the theft.   
In this case, the car was on private land, but it was visible from the road. The allotment  is 
protected by a metal fence, but from the photos Mr K has provided,  it isnt very high  and 
the thief was able to climb over it unnoticed. The plan Mr K supplied  and the photos  show  
there were overgrown areas  providing secluded access to the allotment. Mr K says one of 
Ref: DRN91972402these areas  was right next to his car and could  have provided cover to a thief. There  were 
very few people other than Mr K around. So in my opinion, the car was vulnerable. 
Once the thief had entered the allotment, I dont  think getting to Mr Ks car was difficult.  And 
it was parked at the top of an access road that led down  to a main  road.  The thief could  have 
gone straight to the car simply by taking a route that didnt involve walking past Mr K. Mr K 
accepts that the car was out of sight from where he was working. So he didnt see the thief 
approach and enter it. I dont think Mr K was in a position to act as a deterrent in these 
circumstances. Even  if hed noticed  the thief approaching the car, I think  its doubtful  Mr K 
could have deterred or prevented the theft.  He was 20 feet away and the key was in the 
ignition. So I think its very likely the car would have been moving  before he got to it. 
I can see why Mr K didnt think anyone would attempt to drive  a car through a metal gate 
onto a main road. But I think  its fair to say that thieves often take risks that an average 
consumer wouldnt consider. Clearly the gate wasnt enough  of a deterrent. But had the car 
been locked, and the key removed, I think its very unlikely  the car would  have been  stolen,  
no matter what risks the thief was prepared to take.  
We usually say insurers should bring significant terms and conditions to a consumers 
notice. There was no key facts summary with the policy here. But I dont think Mr K would 
have acted any differently  had there  been one. I think hes made it clear that he was 
confident about the security measures that were in place at the allotment. He firmly  believed  
they were enough  to protect his car. Others encouraged him to believe that. So Mr K thought  
he didnt need  to take any further measures, such as locking the doors and removing the 
key, as required by the policy. He told us that in some circumstances he would have 
accepted Ageass decision. But only in situations  where he thought the risks to the car of 
leaving it open with the key in it were higher  such as at a patrol  station.  
Recently Mr K told us that another car had been stolen from the allotment with the key in it 
and that the insurer in question had settled the claim. I dont know the details, and each 
claim is considered on its own merits. But I think the second theft reinforces the fact that its 
generally risky to leave  cars unlocked with keys in them. So although I sympathise with 
Mr K, taking everything into account,  I think it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim.    
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9197240