K820x#14complaint
Ms F is unhappy with Zenith Insurance plcs (Zenith) decision to decline a claim she under 
her motorcycle insurance policy.
background
In August  2018  Ms F discovered her motorbike had been stolen from an outbuilding at her 
home. She said she had placed her bike in there when she got home  from work.  And in the 
morning this was gone. So, she made a claim under her motorcycle insurance policy.
Zenith declined  Ms Fs claim. It said there was an endorsement on Ms Fs policy  that said 
Ms F had agreed to keep her bike in a locked garage or buildings at her home address. And 
that theft of the vehicle when it was within a 500 metre radius of her home wasnt covered   
unless the vehicle was locked in this garage or building. It said Ms Fs bike was stolen from 
her home address  and it wasnt in a private,  locked, garage or building. So, it said it 
couldnt pay her claim.
Ms F didnt think this was fair. She said the main  door to the building the motorcycle  was 
stored in was in place  and locked. But, there was another  entrance  to this building  leading  
into the garden that didnt have a door in it. Ms F said the door had been damaged and 
keeping it on the building  would have been dangerous. So, the doorway to this entrance was 
left open at the time of loss. But Ms F said the building was within  her fenced garden and 
was therefore  secure.
Because Ms F didnt agree with Zeniths decision,  she referred her complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She said that Ms Fs bike 
wasnt stored in a locked  private garage. So, she said the terms and the policy  had been  
breached  and Zenith had acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Ms F didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision on her complaint. So, 
this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Ms Fs policy documents, to see what cover she has under her policy. Ms Fs 
policy schedule explains Ms F has comprehensive cover for her bike.  And that there  was an 
endorsement that applied to her policy. Under the heading endorsements applying it is 
explained there is an endorsement on the policy excluding theft when the bike isnt in a 
private garage. 
This endorsement is further  detailed on page three of the policy  schedule.  It says;
You have  agreed  that you will keep  your vehicle in your private  locked garage  or building, at 
your home address, to which only you and anyone with your permission has access. If a 
Ref: DRN95619892theft or attempted  theft of your vehicle happens  at any time and within a 500 metre  radius  of 
your home address when the vehicle is not in this garage of building  we will not pay the 
claim. This restriction does not apply to any loss or damage occurring whilst your motorcycle 
is parked away from your home during the course of a journey.
Because this endorsement was detailed in Ms Fs policy schedule Im satisfied this was 
made clear to her. So, Ive needed  to decide  whether  Zenith acted reasonably in saying 
Ms F had breached this endorsement, and therefore  it couldnt  pay the claim.
Ive thought carefully about this. And I do think Zeniths decision was fair, and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. For Ms Fs theft claim to be covered her bike needed to 
be kept in a locked garage or building.  And in this case it wasnt.  
There was an opening to the building  that wasnt locked. Whilst there was a door to the front 
of the building and Ms F has confirmed this was locked, the opening at the back of the 
building was open and unsecure. The door had been removed before the theft happened. 
Because of this, Im satisfied the endorsement  on Ms Fs policy  was breached. And because 
of this, Zenith has acted  correctly in saying the claim isnt covered.
I appreciated Ms F has said the building is in her garden, and this is surrounded by a fence. 
But this doesnt  change that the motorcycle wasnt contained in a locked building or garage. 
So, Im satisfied Zenith doesnt need  to anything  more  here.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
that Zenith  Insurance plc do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9561989