K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that Indigo  Michael Limited  (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr M was given  a SafetyNet facility in August 2015. This was a running credit  account where 
a consumer could  either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited  
into their bank account once their account  balance fell below a safety  net amount of the 
customers choosing.
The initial credit limit given to Mr M in August 2015  was £300. The credit limit increased 
eight times  before Mr M drew down for the last time in August 2016. At this point  the limit 
was £750. When  Mr M stopped using the facility,  he had borrowed 50 times over the period.   
Mr Ms account then went into arrears and, based on the information  given to us by SNC, an 
outstanding balance remains.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting  the facility were proportionate and that the information  SNC gathered  about  
Mr Ms circumstances  suggested he would be able to afford the repayments. So, she didnt 
think it was wrong of SNC to offer the facility.
But, the adjudicator didnt  think  the way Mr M used  his facility was concerning  until 
8 April 2016. By this point,  the adjudicator didnt think further drawdowns shouldve been  
allowed as she thought Mr M appeared to be struggling to manage  his commitments and 
had become reliant on the facility.    
SNC didnt  agree with the assessment. It considers that the facility was affordable  for Mr M 
when each drawdown was made. SNC  also doesnt think  there  was any objective reason  to 
withdraw the credit facility. So, it feels it acted fairly  by continuing  to offer drawdowns  and 
that this was in line with the spirit of regulatory  guidance about credit  cards.  
Mr M hasnt  responded  to the adjudicators assessment and appears to accept  what the 
adjudicator has said.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  given.
Both Mr M and SNC appear to accept  that it wasnt unreasonable for the facility  to have 
been approved,  or for the first 27 drawdowns  to have been lent (through to March  2016). As 
such, it seems that this lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont  be making a finding  about 
it.
Ref: DRN95730532So instead,  this decision will focus on whether SNC did anything wrong when it granted the 
drawdowns from 8 April 2016. But I have kept the other lending in mind  when thinking about 
the overall lending relationship between SNC and Mr M.
When SNC agreed the drawdown on 8 April 2016 there was an expectation that it would 
review and monitor how Mr M was using the facility. Indeed, the guidance at the time that 
can be found in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC) 6.7.2 says;
A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action 
where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. 
What this means is that it wasnt  enough  for SNC  to just carry out an assessment before the 
facility was approved  or when there was an increase in the credit  limit. It needed to continue  
to monitor how Mr M used  the facility, and then step in and provide help when  or if it could 
see he was, or was likely,  having  financial difficulties.
To start with, Mr M wasnt given a payday loan. He was given a facility that enabled him to 
draw up to his limit and then make repayments over a reasonable period  of time. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable of SNC  to have  believed that Mr M would repay  the outstanding 
balance over a reasonable period of time when the facility was first granted.  And I think that 
this would have  resulted  in monthly  repayments  of around £20  given a credit limit of £300. 
After all, this is what was expected, and the way this facility was designed. But if Mr M wasnt  
using the facility as intended, this could indicate  to SNC that he was having wider financial  
problems.
In order to see whether  I think  it was fair to allow  Mr P to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Mr M returned  for further borrowing. After  all, if Mr M was 
drawing down similar sums within  days of SNC  taking a repayment from his bank account, 
this ought to have indicated  that SNC taking the full payment from Mr Ms bank account was 
causing him to once  again borrow the funds that SNC had just taken as repayment. 
Having reviewed the same information that SNC had, I agree with our adjudicator  that there 
was clear information which ought to have led SNC to decline Mr Ms request for any further 
drawdowns from 8 April 2016. I think SNC ought to have been reasonably aware that by this 
point Mr M wasnt  using  the facility in a sustainable  manner. Ill explain why. 
SNC had read only access to the bank account into which the drawdowns were transferred. 
From what  I can see, SNC  was therefore  in a strong  position to monitor  the sustainability of 
this borrowing as it went on. The industry  regulator  defines sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and that the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow further to do so. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Mr M drew down  the full facility credit limit (£300)  in August and September 2015. The 
outstanding balance was repaid in full at the end of each month, which  tied in with his 
income being paid into his bank  account. Over the following months his borrowing increased 
in line with the increase in the facilitys  credit  limit. In December 2015 he drew down £570 
and in February and March 2016,  £680. 
Ref: DRN95730533During this period, I can see that Mr M was able to repay his outstanding balance  in full. 
However, the daily balance of his bank account  was generally low, and he appeared to be 
relying on the facility  drawdowns to keep his bank account in credit.  Indeed, Mr M was 
borrowing further within days of repayment  of his outstanding balance  and his main income 
coming into his account  a sign that he wasnt repaying the outstanding balance 
sustainably.  
By March 2016 SNC would also have seen  that Mr M was making  payments  to debt 
collection agencies. Mr M made payments to four different agencies that month  followed  by 
a further payment at the beginning of April 2016 shortly before the drawdown on 8 April 
2016. This being the twenty eighth  time that Mr M had borrowed over the period. 
Looking at everything together, I think there were clear signs that Mr M was having  financial 
difficulties, and this was reflected by the fact that he wasnt using the facility  as SNC 
intended. So, I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr M had most likely become  reliant  on the 
facility. SNC  says itself that the SNC facility isnt designed  for someone who is struggling  to 
maintain control  of their finances  and I think that is most likely  what was happening  to
Mr M. I think this is something that SNC  ought  reasonably to have been aware of had it 
reviewed and monitored the facility  as required. 
In my view, the way Mr M was using his account shouldve been  enough  for SNC to have 
proactively contacted him to arrange  smaller payments as permitted by the agreement  and 
in line with what it would take for the facility  to be cleared within  a reasonable period - rather 
than continue taking  the full account  balance on a monthly basis  and allowing him to re-
borrow what he repaid  on the same  date. 
I note that SNC feels that cancelling the facility wouldnt  have been in line with the spirit of 
regulatory guidance about credit  cards which raised concern about  the cancellation of credit  
cards. Firstly,  the SNC  facility isnt a credit card and, secondly, in this case  I think it wouldve 
been reasonable not to allow further  drawdowns because SNC shouldve  been concerned 
about the way Mr M was using the facility  and what it was seeing in his bank statements.  
So overall, I think SNC was wrong to have allowed Mr M to continue  to drawdown on the 
facility from 8 April 2016. 
How to put things right
To put things right for Mr M, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges  applied  to the account from 8 April 2016; 
then re-work the account as if all payments made by Mr M from 8 April 2016 had gone 
towards the principal  sum only for each drawdown. If and when an overpayment arises 
then 8% per year simple on the overpayment should  be paid from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement*;
If, however, after carrying out the above  Mr M still has an outstanding principal balance 
due, then SNC  and Mr M should try and come to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan 
in order to repay what is owed. But Id remind SNC  of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly;    
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file from 8 April 2016. 
Ref: DRN95730534*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9573053