K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained as director of C, a limited company, about the amount 
Allianz Insurance Plc offered to settle  Cs business interruption insurance claim.  
C has been helped  in bringing this complaint  by their broker, but for ease Ill refer to Mr S 
and C throughout.  
Reference to Allianz also includes its agent. 
background
Mr S claimed on Cs policy after racking collapsed in August 2016, damaging stock. C 
carried on trading  but said theyd lost gross profit due to what  had happened. 
Allianz accepted  Cs claim and after appointing an expert to look into the loss it offered 
£6,234 in settlement. It said C had replaced  the racks by the end of September  2016  and by 
October 2016 the turnover was in line with the average from the previous twelve months.  It 
said that meant their profit had only been  affected  for two months. However, Mr S said C had 
lost gross profits of around £26,538.  
Allianz said the policy allowed it to make  adjustments for trends that would have affected the 
turnover if the event causing the business interruption hadnt happened.  It said Cs turnover 
had reduced by 13% in the 24 months  before the claim. It said it had asked for a more  
detailed breakdown of turnover between  August  2014 and July 2015,  but Cs previous 
accountants hadnt provided  it. So, it applied  the 13% reduction to the turnover across each 
month of the year. On that basis it said the previous  twelve months had shown a loss of 
£9,909 in turnover and when applying a gross profit rate of 49% this meant the loss of gross 
profit would be £4,889.
Allianz said the policy only covered C for the time it was affected as a consequence of the 
damage. And, as it thought Cs profit had only been  affected for two months, it had 
calculated the losses for August and September.  On that basis it said the loss of turnover 
was £12,652.  And when  applying the gross  profit  rate of 49% this gave a loss of £6,242  
gross profit. It said this was a higher amount than if it had calculated  the loss across twelve 
months instead of two.
Mr S didnt think this was enough.  He accepted turnover  was down but said this was 
because of a commercial decision C had made that had increased the gross profit while  
reducing the turnover.  He also thought  the claim should cover  the indemnity  period  of twelve  
months.
Allianz still thought  its offer was fair. It said while the turnover did drop again  in         
November 2016  this was still in line with the lower months from the previous year.  It asked 
Mr S to give further details about  why he thought his profit had been affected for longer. It 
also said it had taken  longer than it should have done to deal with Cs claim and offered 
£500 as interest  hed have accrued on the money if it had settled the claim earlier.
While we were  looking  into things Mr S provided  more information to explain why he was 
unhappy with Allianzs actions. He said C had pursued bad debts which  had increased the 
profits. He also said debris  removal hadnt  been  factored into the settlement and C had 
incurred higher costs  due to having to buy stock at higher prices to keep trading. He said the 
Ref: DRN96379612stock had also devalued. Mr S was also unhappy at the loss adjuster having been changed a 
number of times and said the £500 offered for delays was derisory. 
We sent this information to Allianz  who said the debris removal  hadnt  been raised as part of 
the claim,  but said it would consider this as part of the overall  claim if Mr S provided further 
details. It also said it had paid for the stock replacement but would consider any further  
information Mr S wanted to provide  on this. Allianz  said it was unfortunate the claim had to 
be passed to new adjusters  when existing ones left but didnt  think  that had affected the 
claim. 
Our investigator recommended that Cs complaint  should be partly upheld. She didnt think it 
was fair for Allianz to apply the 13% reduction  because Mr S had explained why the 
reduction in turnover hadnt affected Cs profits. However, she didnt think  Cs profits had 
been affected for more than two months. And she thought it was fair that Allianz had offered 
to review the overall claim if Mr S provided more information about debris removal and 
having to replace stock at a higher price.  To put things right, she asked Allianz to pay the 
claim without  making a 13% deduction.  She also asked  it to pay interest on that amount at a 
rate of 8% simple per year from 1 May 2018 to the date it makes payment. 
Allianz accepted  the investigators  view,  but Mr S didnt. He said Cs monthly turnover 
showed that the business had been affected  for around ten months.  And he remained 
unhappy that the claim hadnt accounted  for the debris removal.  He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Allianz clarified that the £500 it offered C was a payment for the inconvenience of the time 
the claim had taken and not as an interest  payment. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cs policy covers  the gross profit lost due to the reduction in turnover as a consequence of 
damage to its property. The policy says this is the sum produced by applying the rate of 
Gross Profit to the amount  by which the Turnover during the Indemnity Period shall in 
consequence of the Damage fall short of the Standard turnover. It also allows for 
adjustments to be made for any trends  or variations that would have affected the business 
without the damage  occurring.  
The policy has a maximum indemnity limit of twelve months but would only provide cover for 
that amount  of time if the profits had been impacted for the full year. It might be helpful for 
me to confirm that an average hasnt been  applied to the settlement. 
Ive looked at how Allianz has calculated  the loss. Its applied  Cs gross profit rate of 49% to 
the amount the turnover reduced  from the previous year. Its also applied a 13% reduction as 
Cs turnover reduced  by 13% between 2014/15  and 2015/16. This is in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. However,  Im not persuaded that this produces a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this particular  case.
The policy is designed  to cover Cs loss of profits. And while  in most  cases  this might be 
determined by applying  any trends,  I dont think in this case  it does that. Thats  because  
while Cs turnover might have decreased  its profit  increased. I can see at the end of 
Ref: DRN96379613July 2015 Cs gross profit rate was 40% and at the end of July 2016 it was 49%. Mr S has 
also said that the profit at the end of July 2017 was 44.7%.  
Mr S has provided a plausible explanation for why this happened  as the result of a 
commercial decision.  And while that decision might have affected the turnover in the year 
following the decision, it doesnt  automatically  follow that the turnover  would continue  to 
decline. So, I dont  think its fair to say that the decrease was a trend  and as such I dont 
think it was fair and reasonable to apply  the 13% deduction when calculating  the loss of 
profits. 
I understand Mr S thinks the policy should have  covered the loss over the full year because 
thats the indemnity period. But I think its fair that Allianz only covers losses  for the months  
affected by the collapse  of the racking. This is in line with the terms of the policy.  Its also fair 
and reasonable as it wouldnt  be fair of me to direct  Allianz to pay C for months when it 
hadnt experienced a loss.
Allianz wasnt able to get a detailed breakdown of Cs accounts for 2014/15 due to Cs 
previous accountant  not providing the information. So, it divided the previous years  total 
turnover of £390,391 by twelve  months. This seems fair considering  it wasnt able to get a 
monthly breakdown.  This meant Cs turnover was an average of £32,533  per month.  
The following  year in 2015/16 Cs turnover varied  between £33,108 in January 2016  and 
£21,901 in June 2016. In August  2015 the turnover was £30,041 and September  2015 
£26,286.
The racking was affected in August 2016  and turnover for August reduced to £18,536 and 
September £17,780. So, this seems to be much  lower than the same months the previous 
year. By October the racking had been restored and Cs turnover had increased to £27,314 
which is in line with the previous years average. I appreciate Novembers turnover reduced 
to £22,162 but Decembers  turnover  is then consistent with the turnover from the previous 
year. 
Allianz asked Mr S to explain why he thought  Cs profits had been affected for longer  than 
two months. Mr S said the monthly turnover  figures  showed a loss over a number of the 
following months. While I appreciate that many of the following months  do show  a loss from 
the previous year, some also show  a higher turnover. And I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that any loss in turnover  was as a result of the damaged racking, given  that it 
had been restored by October. 
Allianz has said it will consider any further information Mr S provides in relation  to the debris  
removal. Im not going to make a finding  on this or the stock  value as I dont think that was 
part of the complaint he brought  to us, so would  need to be dealt with separately.  
In summary,  I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for Allianz to pay Cs loss of 
profits for August  and September without making  a 13% deduction. This means  it now needs 
to pay them  the difference  between what it paid as the loss of profit with a 13% deduction 
and what it should  have paid without applying the 13% deduction. Due to the time Cs been 
without money they should have had Allianz should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year from 1 May 2018  to the date it makes payment. I think 1 May 2018 is an appropriate 
date because this is the date Allianz received all the information it needed to process the 
claim. And I can see Allianz  had to send a number of chasers for the information it required.  
Ref: DRN96379614Allianz has already  accepted it took longer  than it should have done to pay Cs claim. Its 
offered £500 for the inconvenience of this. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable amount to 
also reflect  the inconvenience Allianz caused in not paying  the full amount of the claim 
sooner. I say that because I dont think Allianz  was responsible for all the delays. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to:
Reimburse C for the 13% deduction  it applied to the loss of profits  for August  and 
September 2016;
Add interest to that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from 1 May 2018  to the 
date it makes payment.1
Pay C £500 for its inconvenience, if it hasnt already  done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Allianz considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell C how much  its taken off. It should also give C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN9637961