K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy poorly.
background
In January 2018 there was a leak in Ms Ds property. Admiral accepted the claim and started 
the repair works. It was agreed Ms D should be in alternative accommodation (AA) whilst 
some of the works were ongoing.
In April, AA still hadnt  been sourced so the works could not start. Ms D complained  about 
the delays. Admiral agreed Ms D had received a poor service up until this point and paid 
£200 compensation to apologise  for that.
Around the start of July, Ms D was able to go back to her property. But she wasnt  happy 
with the repairs  that had been carried out. She said many of her white goods had been 
damaged by the contractors and the standard of repairs had been  poor.  Some  of the warped 
kitchen units had been refitted and had mould  on them. The tiling was incomplete and there 
were various scratches to worktops and paintwork.  Ms D came to this service. She said 
Admiral hadnt responded to these issues.
Our investigator recommended a number of things Admiral should do. That didnt resolve the 
complaint. So an Ombudsman considered it. She issued  a provisional decision. She set out 
a range of things  she felt Admiral should do. Pay £80 disturbance allowance to Ms D. Either  
make a cash payment  for or carry out redecoration work. Replace any kitchen units 
damaged or not repaired properly during the claim. And increase the compensation paid to a 
total of £1,000. That Ombudsman cant issue a final decision. So the complaint has come to 
me.
  
In response to the provisional decision Admiral showed it had responded to many of the 
issues raised by Ms D. It visited her home  in July 2018. It accepted concerns about the 
quality of some of the work. It paid Ms D cash to settle them. Based on that I proposed a 
different resolution.  I said Admiral would still need  to pay £80 disturbance allowance. I also 
said, as Admiral had responded to Ms Ds kitchen  issues,  a total of £500 compensation 
would be enough.  Admiral accepted my proposal. Ms D didnt. She said she still hadnt been 
paid for decoration work.  She felt a total of £500  compensation  wasnt enough.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In July 2018 Admiral  responded  to Ms Ds concerns about the quality  of the repair  work and 
some other matters. Ive seen its report.  It accepted her concerns. The report  says Ms D 
didnt want Admirals contractor to put the various issues right  so a cash  settlement was 
proposed allowing her to choose her own contractor. 
The report  agreed  to £2,000 to cover issues with kitchen worktop,  units, sink and tiles. About 
£560 to replace a washing machine and a fridge freezer. And around £80 for outstanding 
decoration work. Thats a total of about £2,640. Ive not been given any reason  to think thats 
Ref: DRN93286382not enough to cover the work or repairs required. The report also proposed  one of Admirals 
contractors would repair Ms Ds front door and basin.  Admiral says that work was done. 
Admiral says the cash payments have been made.  Ms D says she hasnt  been  paid the full 
amount. Ive asked her and Admiral to show  whats been received and whats been paid. 
Having done so, it seems  that Ms D has been paid the amounts proposed  in the report.  
One payment  from Admiral was for about £750. Ms D accepts she received  it. She accepts 
Admiral paid her a further £1,800. Admiral  says it made a further payment of £200.  So a total 
of about £2,750. But Ms D says she didnt receive the £200. Because  of this she feels  she 
hasnt been paid enough to cover decoration. Admirals provided  a date for that payment. 
Ive asked Ms D to provide something  from her account to show  she didnt receive  it. She 
hasnt done so. Based on what Ive seen I think its most likely she was paid it. So Ms Ds 
been paid more than the £2,640 proposed by the report.    
Ms D was without some  facilities for eight nights when she was placed in a hotel by Admiral. 
It will need to pay her £10 a night for the extra costs  she will have  incurred as result.  So a 
total of £80. As Ms Ds been unfairly without this money Admiral will need to add simple 
interest at 8% from the date of the hotel placement to the date of settlement.     
Ms D doesnt accept £500 is a fair compensation for the unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience caused by Admiral. A significant  part of the previous Ombudsmans  reason 
for awarding  a higher amount was Admirals  failure  to respond to her concerns. However,  it 
did address them within reasonable  time.  Ms Ds also highlighted that Admiral failed to 
arrange accommodation - she had to stay at her sisters. I accept that was an inconvenience  
for her. Ive considered everything Ms Ds said about that, the claim and Admirals service.  
But I still think a total of £500 is enough  to recognise whats happened. So Admiral will need 
to pay an extra £300 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Admiral Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Ms D £300  
more in compensation and £80 disturbance allowance.  Admiral will need to add simple  
interest at 8% from the date of the hotel placement to the date of settlement*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited to take off tax from this interest. Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited must give Ms D a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN9328638