K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Northern Bank  Limited (trading as Danske Bank) will not refund 
a transaction they say they did not authorise from their business  account.
background
Mr and Mrs H contacted  Danske Bank  in December 2018 and said they did not recognise  a 
debit of £4,582.53 on 10 July 2017. This had come to light when their accountant  was 
preparing their accounts. They were told that this was a foreign currency  transaction  and 
was the cost of buying five thousand  euros  which was taken out in cash. They  say that they 
had no need to withdraw this money.
Danske Bank said it would not be refunding this money. It said Mr H had contacted it on 6 
July 2017 and asked about  finance for a vehicle. Hed said he would be putting  down a five 
thousand deposit  but had later said its quote was not competitive. He had been in the 
branch that day and had paid in a cheque at 10:24. He had also asked  that the e banking  
service be deleted and for a copy of his statements. The withdrawal  was made  at 10:54 and 
this was consistent with a time lock on the foreign exchange till. Danske Bank said it does  
not retain documents for more than 13 months  so could not provide a copy of a signed  
voucher.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he had seen 
evidence to show that Danske Bank did not retain this documentation after 13 months. There 
was no CCTV footage given the time that had passed. And the timing of the withdrawal and 
systems entries were  consistent with Danske Banks  account  of what happened. Although 
Mr H had told him that if he needed a deposit for a car he would have taken this from an 
account in euros at a different financial business,  a copy  of the statements for that account  
showed he did not have funds available  there.
Mr and Mrs H who are represented in this complaint did not agree and wanted their 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 May 2020. I wanted to explain my 
reasoning for not upholding this and I set out what I said below:
I needed to take into account  the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 in considering this 
complaint. Our investigator has already explained to Mr and Mrs H that these state that a 
payment can only be authorised if it was consented  to. So its not enough for it to be 
authenticated, say with a card or signature. And if it wasnt authorised  Mrs H wouldnt 
generally be responsible for them.
I also wanted to refer specifically to Regulation  59 about the notification of unauthorised or 
incorrectly executed  payment  transactions. This states that 
1)A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 61, 75, 76 or 77 only if 
it notifies the payment  service  provider without undue delay, and in any event no later 
than 13 months after the debit  date,  on becoming aware of any unauthorised  or 
incorrectly executed  payment  transaction.
Ref: DRN90070572We take account of regulations and also think about what is fair and reasonable. Here Mr 
and Mrs H reported this payment  as unauthorised 17 months after it was made. So I needed 
to take this into account in making  my assessment.
I didnt see any explanation why this payment would not have  reasonably come to their 
attention sooner. It was shown on a copy of a statement dated 7 August 2017 which theyve  
provided to this service.  This was a large amount in relation  to the turnover  of their business 
theyve told us about. Although this payment did not directly cause an overdraft on the 
account, but for this payment the balance would  not have been  in overdraft on 18 July 2017 
and it contributed to there being a higher  overdraft  position later in the month.
Danske Bank has shown it destroys  documents about such  transactions  after 13 months and 
I understood that this is mindful of the PSR.  So taking into account that I thought it brought 
the payment to Mr and Mrs Hs attention I didnt think it would be reasonable for me now to 
find that it didnt  follow its normal authorisation process that day. 
I also took into account that Mr H was in the branch at the relevant time. The systems 
evidence that is available  shows the two transactions  made  at the counter.  As these were 
separated by transactions with other customers there is no reason to think Mr and Mrs Hs 
account details  were used incorrectly with another  customer. There is a plausible  reason for 
him being in the branch  for 20 minutes given the other business  he was doing and the likely  
need to wait for a sizeable amount of foreign currency.  In addition Id listened to a recording 
of a phone  call he had with Danske Bank on 6 July 2017 about his need for finance  of just 
under £6,500. He said he was putting down a £5,000 deposit on the related vehicle. While 
clearly the cash withdrawal turned out to be in euros I didnt know if Danske Bank  could have 
offered him finance in that currency. Finally, although he said if they needed euros he would 
have got them from his euro bank account,  as our investigator has pointed out there were 
not sufficient funds in that with a balance below  200 euros. So there does seem  to a be a 
plausible reason why he may have needed  that amount of cash  although I emphasised 
that I didnt  have to determine the reason for a withdrawal to find it was authorised.
Having balanced  the above  factors I was satisfied that the most likely explanation here is 
that this payment was authenticated and consented  to. I didnt find in my provisional view it 
wasnt authorised  and so I didnt have  a basis to require Danske Bank to do anything further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The deadline  I set for responses was 5 June  2020. Danske Bank said it did not have 
anything else to add. Mr and Mrs H did not respond through their representative  which is the 
contact point for any correspondence. I noted that the investigator  had sent a further  email  
after the provisional decision to the representative  asking whether they did have any 
comments. There has been no response and no request for any additional time.
As a result I am going to proceed now to final decision. I am not minded  to depart from what 
I said in my provisional decision for the reasons I gave above.
Ref: DRN90070573my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9007057