K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K has complained about two whole of life policies sold to her by a business which is now 
the responsibility of Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited.  She is unhappy with the increase in 
premiums she has been  asked to pay in order to maintain the sum assured on both policies.
Background
Mrs K took out a reviewable whole of life policy in 1995 (Policy 1) and one 2006 (Policy 2). 
Policy 1 initially had a sum assured  of £171,280  and a premium of £810.20 and Policy 2 had 
a sum assured  of £328,720 with a premium  of £1,505.07. Her total life protection  was 
£500,000 and her total monthly premiums  were £2,315.27.
The premiums and sum assureds on both policies remained  the same until February 2018 
when at the scheduled review it was found that not enough was being  paid not the policies 
to maintain the initial sum assureds. Mrs K was therefore told that to keep the sum assured 
on both policies at the original levels her premiums in total would  have to increase to just 
under £7,000 a month. This letter also informed her that if she didnt agree to increase her 
premiums her total sum assured would reduce to £80,000.
Mrs K was unhappy with this information. She felt that the change  of business  to Aviva in 
October 2017 prompted the required increase in premiums. She says that she was assured  
at the point of the change that it wouldnt  affect her policies, nor would  it change  the terms of 
it or the cover provided. Yet only a few months later she was told she had to increase  her 
premiums substantially or accept a lower death benefit.
Mrs K didnt take any action after receiving  the policy review letter  in February  2018.  So in 
November 2018  Aviva wrote to her explaining that as she hadnt responded the cover had 
reduced to £80,000.  It also explained  that she was no longer able to increase her premiums 
but she could  increase  the combined sum assured to £209,940 which was the maximum 
sum assured at the current combined premium of £2,315  per month.  It was at this point  
Mrs K complained.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He was satisfied that the change in premiums and sum assureds was always  a 
possibility given the policy was a reviewable one. He also saw the policy  documents for 
Policy 1 and was again satisfied that it set out the policy would be reviewed, when that would 
be and what that could mean. And as this was how reviewable whole of life polices worked, 
he couldnt conclude  that Aviva had done  anything wrong.
Mrs K didnt agree with the assessment. She said she felt that Avivas attempts to increase 
her premiums without her prior consent  was unjust and unfair. She also felt Aviva had acted 
without any duty of care given the number of years she had held the policies and how much  
she had paid in premiums. She was also adamant the benefits under the policies had 
changed as a result of Aviva take over the previous business that sold her the policies.
While the investigator did consider  Mrs Ks comments, he wasnt persuaded to change is 
initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN94463932My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs K is unhappy  with the result of the 2018 review  of her policies. 
The increase  required in the premiums  was significant. However, this doesnt mean that 
Aviva did anything wrong. As the investigator identified,  the policies in question are 
reviewable whole of life policies. This means  that it was written in to the policies  contracts 
that there  would be regular  reviews of the policies to ascertain  whether enough  was being 
paid into them to maintain the sum assured agreed  at the time of the sale.  These  reviews  
are usually carried out after the first ten years  of the policy and then usually every five years 
thereafter. So, given  this, there was always the potential for Mrs K to need to pay in more if 
she wanted to maintain  the sum assureds. 
When a review of this type of policy takes  place  the provider will work out the premiums  
based on a number of factors such as the amount already held in the policys investment, 
the likely  investment return in the future  and likely  cost of life cover  in the future. These  
measures are used across all providers of these  policies  so are not business specific  and 
the calculations  are carried out by businesses actuarial department.  So, while  I appreciate 
the increase Mrs K was required to pay was significant, I have  no reason to doubt  this 
calculation.
I am therefore satisfied  that the policies  have been administered correctly.  As well as this, 
while Aviva hasnt been able to provide the policy terms  and conditions Policy 2, I have  seen 
the policy documentation for Policy  1 and it was explained  in this information  that the policy 
would be reviewed and what  this could mean for the policy  in the future. Its very likely the 
documentation for Policy  2 would also have set out and explained  the reviewable nature of 
the policy as this was part of the policys terms and conditions. So, on balance, I think  its 
likely this aspect of the policys operation would have been  covered off in the discussions 
with the adviser  at the time of the sale. And it may be that as its not been an issue until now 
its something Mrs K, not unreasonably, has forgotten about.
But in any event, even  if it wasnt brought to her attention  other than in the policy terms, 
I dont think this makes the advice  to take the policies unsuitable or inappropriate and I think  
Mrs K wouldnt have  done anything different if it had been made  clearer  to her. I have no 
reason to doubt that Mrs K wanted  the life protection these policies offered. And she has 
maintained them both for twenty-five and eleven years so this suggests that shes continued  
to need protection the policy provided.  The alternative would have been to take cover  for 
some sort of fixed term which could have  left he without any cover at this stage in her life.
I know Mrs K feels that Aviva should have consulted with her first before carrying out the 
review and asking  for the increase in premiums, but Aviva doesnt need to do this. As 
already stated, the reviewable nature of the policies is a contractual term that Mrs K agreed  
to when she took out the policies. And so because it was written into the contract that 
reviews would take place at certain times there  was no need for Aviva to have discussed any 
upcoming reviews with Mrs K before they were carried out.
I can also assure Mrs K that the changeover in business to Aviva would not have had any 
effect on the policies. The letter she received explained the change  in policy  provider 
wouldnt affect her policies is correct  there  is no technical reason why this would have 
been so. The change in the policies is simply down to the fact that at a contracted review, 
Ref: DRN94463933because of increases  in costs of providing the life protection under the policies  not enough 
was being paid into the policy to maintain  the sum assured she took out initially.
So while I understand why Mrs K is unhappy with what has happened  to her policies recently 
and agree the changes have been  significant  the reviews that have prompted  these changes  
are a normal feature  of whole of life policies  and isnt due to anything Aviva has done wrong. 
This is how reviewable whole of life policies work and this is something Mrs K should have 
been aware of given  these details were set out in the policy  documentation she would have 
been given at the time of the sales.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9446393