K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr R complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints against  insurance 
companies and other regulated financial firms. In the case of a complaint  about a claim 
under an insurance  policy,  we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company 
responsible for dealing  with the claim.
In our final decision we name the insurance  company  but we dont name other companies or 
individuals. 
Miss M was living with her partner Mr R. Their central heating boiler was in an upstairs 
cupboard above  the wall that divided the lounge  and kitchen  below.
In about February  2017 Miss M took out a policy branded with the name of a members 
organisation. Acromas  was the insurance  company responsible for dealing with claims.  
Where I refer to Acromas I include other companies  and individuals for whose actions I hold 
Acromas responsible.
The policy included cover for repairs. This was subject to a £50.00  excess. The policy  also 
covered an annual boiler service.
In 2017 Acromas did a first inspection and an annual boiler service. Miss M renewed the 
policy in February 2018. But Acromas  didnt do an annual service that year. 
On about 23 January 2019 Miss M called for help with her central  heating  boiler. Acromas 
visited and said it needed a new expansion  vessel and pressure release valve.  Acromas  
gave some advice about  re-pressurising  the boiler to keep it going. During cold weather, 
Miss M had to chase  for progress.
On 2 March 2019,  Mr R and Miss M noticed a damp  patch on the lounge wall next to the 
kitchen, including  electric  sockets. From  then, things got worse for Miss M and Mr R. They 
were without central heating and hot water. From 3 March 2019 to 5 March 2019  they were  
also without electricity so they lost food in the fridge  and freezer. 
From about  3 to 12 March  they were at a hotel on a room-only basis and without a fridge.  
They spent money  on eating out.
Electricity was restored  to upstairs  circuits. The plasterboard had to be removed from the 
wall. They returned home and lived upstairs while the wall dried out and the downstairs 
electrics were still off.
On about 12 March 2019 they paid for a new boiler. 
They also paid for a report on water ingress.
On 18 March 2019 electricity was restored to ground  floor circuits. They had been without 
working kitchen appliances  for about 15 days.
Ref: DRN99851132In a final response letter dated  25 March  2019  Acromas offered £1,000.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Miss M and Mr R complained that Acromas should pay the following:
for distress and inconvenience,  
£250.00 per week  per person for 18 weeks
(23 January  2019  - mid-June 2019)   £9,000.00
for supply  and installation of the new boiler    £3,550.00 
for food      £350.00
for the policy excess                    £50.00
for the missed annual  service        £80.00
total £13,030.00
Our investigator said that Acromas had split Mr R and Miss Ms complaint into two parts:
1.the compensation award for the inconvenience   
2.the damage  to the property.
He said his opinion  was on the first part. He said Acromas had not provided a final answer  
on the second part of the complaint.  So he was unable to give his thoughts on this.
He didnt recommend  that the first part of the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought that 
the £1,000.00 distress  and inconvenience  payment which Acromas had offered was fair and 
in line with what the Financial Ombudsman  Service would have recommended.
He said that:
Acromas had confirmed the boiler was deemed  BER (beyond economical repair)  before 
any damage  was caused. 
The premium  paid for the boiler service  due in 2018 was £66.60 and Acromas had said 
the compensation  figure of £1,000.00 did take this into account. 
Keeping in mind  the policy term about spare  parts,  he didnt think Acromas  could be held 
liable to pay additional compensation as they were awaiting parts from their suppliers.
Miss M and Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion.  They  asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They  say, in summary,  that:
There was an initial misdiagnosis of the fault in January 2019. The amount of water in 
the wall and the mould growth on the wall after the chipboard was removed both 
indicate that the water  ingress  had been  ongoing before the water ingress  was finally  
seen at the beginning of March 2019.
Acromas didnt  deem the boiler BER before any damage was caused.
For 5 weeks from 23 January to 2 March  2019 they were  told Acromas was waiting  for 
parts and instructed to manually re-pressurise the system.
On 4 March 2019 Acromas refused service and told them  to arrange their own repair
The impact  of waiting  5 weeks was greatly  increased as a result  of the wrong technical 
advice that led to 90 litres of water being  released into the living  room/kitchen wall.
The part required  in January was freely  available  and their engineer sourced one in the 
space of 24 hours between 4 and 5 March 2019.
On 5 March  2019 their engineer unsuccessfully attempted  a repair. His view was that 
the boiler was BER.
Ref: DRN99851133They were not told the £1,000.00 payment included a refund of boiler  service that was 
not provided in 2018. They dont agree that it covers  that.
Acromas has caused Mr R depression and anxiety.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Miss M has provided  a long chronology document with embedded evidence  
including emails, photographs and extracts from Acromas system logs and telephone  
transcripts. I have been  able to cross-reference  to the logs and the transcripts.
The policy didnt cover repairing or replacing the boiler if it was BER. If it was BER the policy 
provided a £300.00 contribution towards  a replacement boiler.
The policy covered overnight accommodation costs up to £150.00 per night  (including  VAT) 
for up to 3 nights where the home was uninhabitable  for 48 hours or more. The policy 
excluded costs for meals  and drinks. 
From what  they say, Mr R and Miss M paid a £50.00 excess on about  23 January 2019.
I accept that Miss M and Mr R suffered  distress  and inconvenience between  January and 
June 2019. Their home was at times without central  heating and electricity. Each of them 
used up precious leave from work. They had to make numerous phone calls as Acromas 
didnt communicate  as well as it should  have.
Mr R suffered depression  and anxiety. But his medical evidence mentions an incident at 
work as well as the problems with his home. So I cant say that Acromas  caused his illness.
Acromas acknowledged  that manual top-up of the boiler pressure wasnt meant  to be a long 
term solution.
But the boiler still didnt work after Mr R and Miss Ms engineer  changed the expansion 
vessel, pressure release valve and filling loop. He said the boiler needed  a new printed 
circuit board.
Ive thought about the missed annual  service, the 5-week delay  and the manual topping-up. 
And Ive noted  the water  ingress report. It includes the following:
Water ingress was found to be coming from faulty  fitting on PRV pipework on boiler 
But I dont consider that theres enough  technical evidence that Acromas caused  the leak  
or caused the boiler to become BER.  So I dont hold Acromas responsible for all of the 
distress and inconvenience described above. And I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Acromas to contribute further to the cost of the new boiler.
Acromas paid the following:
for the hotel £483.00
for Mr R and Miss Ms engineers attempted repairs £550.00 
Ref: DRN99851134for the water ingress report £325.00 
for the BER payment  £300.00
The policy didnt cover food. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to pay 
for food.
Acromas paid for Miss M and Mr Rs engineers repair.  So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct it to reimburse the policy excess of £50.00.
I do find it fair and reasonable for Acromas to reimburse the cost of the missed annual  
service. I accept  that this was about £66.00.
But overall £1,000.00 is much  more compensation than I wouldve found fair and reasonable 
if Acromas hadnt sent a cheque for that amount. So I dont  find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Acromas to pay any more to Miss M or Mr R  or to do anything further in response to 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9985113