K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about the way Capital One (Europe)  plc tried to recover a credit card debt 
from her. Mrs E says Capital One instructed four different debt collection businesses at the 
same time and that they sent private  information  to an unrelated address. Mrs E also 
complains that Capital One didnt stand by a reduced settlement offer it made.  
background
Mrs E had a credit  card with Capital One that fell into arrears  and was defaulted. In 2011 
Capital One instructed some debt collection businesses to try and recover  the outstanding 
balance from Mrs E. 
Mrs E says that in 2011 and 2012  she was contacted by four different debt collection 
businesses around  the same  time.  Mrs E has provided evidence  that the debt collection 
businesses wrote to her at different addresses, one of which  shes  not connected to as its a 
property that was owned by her ex-husband. Last year, when Mrs Es ex-husband sold the 
property, copies of the letters were found which highlighted what  had happened.  
Mrs E complained to Capital One and it responded on 12 July 2018. Capital One said it was 
unable to locate  any letters  it had sent to the address Mrs E complained about. Capital One 
also confirmed that the debt had been sold to another  business  in 2015. 
Mrs E referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. She didnt think  it 
would be fair to uphold the complaint and explained that because the issues Mrs E had 
raised happened in 2011 theres very limited evidence available.  She wasnt persuaded that 
Capital One had treated Mrs E unfairly. Mrs E asked to appeal  the investigators  view as she 
felt Capital One and its agents had tried to bully her into repaying the debt. She also thought 
that the offer to pay a reduced settlement should have remained available  to her. Mrs E also 
pointed out she had given us evidence  of the letters sent to her. As Mrs E asked to appeal 
her complaints been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs E has raised several issues so Ill 
look at each in turn. 
Mrs E says that she felt bullied by the way Capital  One tried to recover the credit card debt.  I 
can see that in 2011 and 2012 she was contacted by a number of businesses on behalf of 
Capital One. And Capital  One also wrote to Mrs E directly as well. But Im not persuaded 
Capital One was bullying Mrs E. I think the letters it and its agents sent reflect  the 
seriousness of the situation and Capital Ones attempts to recover the outstanding  debt.  
Ive looked at all the letters and information  Mrs E and Capital One have provided. From 
what Ive seen, I think Capital One instructed two of the businesses  that wrote to Mrs E. And 
those businesses went on to instruct specialists to trace her and visit her as necessary. 
For example, one of the debt collection businesses (Ill call it Business A) wrote  to Mrs E on 
28 June 2011  to say it would instruct a door step debt collector  to visit her. That business 
(Business B) wrote to Mrs E on 11 July 2017 and confirmed it had been instructed to visit her 
by Business A. 
Ref: DRN96838122Ive looked at all the letters Mrs E has provided copies of but I havent been persuaded that 
Capital One acted unfairly by instructing agents to try and recover  the outstanding debt on its 
behalf. 
Mrs E says Capital Ones agents tried to contact her at an address she has never  lived at 
that was owned by her ex-husband. Shes  confirmed that neither she nor her ex-husband 
lived at the address and copies of letters sent to her in 2011 and 2012  were discovered 
when he recently sold the property.  The letters Mrs E has sent us show  Business A wrote to 
her on 14 July 2011 to say it had traced  her to that address using information obtained from 
the credit  reference  agencies. It sent another letter that day to say an offer wasnt 
acceptable. 
Another business (Business C) also wrote  to Mrs E at this address to say it had traced  her 
and asked her to get in contact to discuss the debt. Whilst I appreciate Mrs E didnt live at 
that address,  I think Capital Ones agents were legitimately trying  to trace  her in order  to 
discuss arrangements  for repayment. 
Ive thought about the letter dated 14 July 2011 that says its in response  to an offer Mrs E 
made. I agree its confusing  Mrs E says she made  no offer. The investigators been back to 
Capital One to try to get more answers. But the records no longer exist so Capital Ones not 
been able to confirm what the letter referred  to. I know Mrs E is concerned that her personal 
information has been shared. But beyond Mrs Es name and confirmation  an offer she may 
have made  wasnt accepted  theres  no personal information in the letter  provided. 
In this case, even  if I were  to agree that the letters in question  were sent to a wrong  address  
I wouldnt be able to uphold the complaint unless I thought the error had in some way 
impacted Mrs E. And I note that Mrs E says she only became aware of the letters in the last 
year or so when the property was sold. As Mrs E wasnt aware of the letters  for several 
years and hasnt given us any details of how they specifically affected  her I havent found 
grounds to award  compensation.  
Mrs E was offered the chance to reduce the outstanding balance by 40% then 50% in 2011. 
But Mrs E didnt agree to settle, so the full debt of £4,102.19 was sold to a third party in 
2015. I appreciate  that Mrs E is unhappy the level of payment to settle the debt increased 
back up to the full default balance when it was sold. But the debt was sold around four years 
after the offer was made to Mrs E so Im satisfied she had a reasonable period to consider 
what to do. The full debt of £4,102.19 was transferred  when the debt was sold and its up to 
the new owner to decide whether it will accept a reduced settlement. I think Capital Ones  
decision to transfer  the full outstanding debt was reasonable. 
I understand that the period in question was stressful for Mrs E but I havent been persuaded 
that Capital One acted  unfairly by instructing third parties to try and recover the outstanding 
balance on its behalf. I agree  that businesses acting for Capital One tried to trace  Mrs E to a 
different address. And one of the businesses  referred to an unacceptable offer when it wrote 
to that address. But I havent found grounds  to award compensation  as I think the impact of 
this was minor  the issue only came to light several years later. Capital One was entitled to 
pass the debt on to a new owner  at its full default  balance as Mrs E didnt accept the 
reduced settlement  offer its agents made.  
Ref: DRN96838123my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9683812