K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited registered a debt management 
plan on her credit file when they shouldve registered a default. She says that, because  of 
this, her credit will be affected far longer  than if a default had been registered.
Mrs S wants  Shop  Direct  Finance Company  Limited  to register  a backdated  default  on her 
credit file.
background
Mrs S had four accounts with Shop Direct. She fell into financial difficulties and, in November
2012, she entered into a debt repayment plan for three of these accounts.  For the other 
account, a default was registered on her credit  file in January  2014.
Mrs S kept to the agreed  payments. The payments were at such levels  that it would take her 
over 20 years to repay the debts.
Mrs S complained to Shop Direct that the accounts shouldve been defaulted in 2012 
because of the low repayments and because  she had entered  into the debt repayment plan 
in November 2012.
Shop Direct wrote their final response  letter to her in May 2018.  They  found  that, on the 
account that they had registered a default,  they were  right to register  it in January 2014 
because payments hadnt been due until July 2013. They had then given Mrs S time to come 
to them  for a repayment offer.
For the other  three accounts,  Shop Direct didnt think that a default shouldve  been 
registered at all. They had come to a repayment arrangement  with Mrs S and she had stuck 
to her payments.
Mrs S didnt agree with Shop  Direct.  She thought the three accounts shouldve  been 
defaulted in November 2012.  She brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator, like Shop Direct, didnt think that the accounts shouldve  been defaulted 
either.
Mrs S provided guidance from the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  that was current  
in November 2012. In particular, she quoted:
24 Low repayment levels
If the payment set out in the DMP is at a level that represents only a token sum in 
repayment, because  that is all the customer can afford, the account should be recorded as a 
default........The record should be removed  six years from the date of the default so that the 
customer is not disadvantaged over those  who have made  no effort  to pay whatsoever.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his mind. Mrs S asked that an ombudsman  
consider her complaint so it has now come  to me.
Ref: DRN97742972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that Shop Direct were right to register the default on the buy now pay later account 
in January 2014. The account had fallen into arrears  only when the goods  became payable 
in July 2013. They acted reasonably and fairly in trying to reach an agreement  for 
repayment. Only when this proved too difficult did they register the default.
With the other three accounts,  I dont  agree  with our investigators view.  I think  that Shop
Direct shouldve registered the defaults in December  2012. I will explain why.
I think that neither  Shop  Direct nor our investigator  has properly considered  the ICO 
guidance that was current in November  2012. I think that, when the debt management  plan 
was agreed, the level of repayments  was very low. Especially  considering  that it was going  
to take over 20 years to repay  the debt. Mrs S was trying to do what  she could to repay  the 
debt. It is clear that she was committed to this as Shop  Direct  have stated  that she didnt 
miss any payments.
So, I dont think that she should be in a worse position than someone who had made no 
effort whatsoever to pay. Had she not entered into a repayment plan or missed  payments, 
the likelihood is that all three  accounts wouldve been defaulted. Then, these defaults 
wouldve been removed  from her credit file six years later.  The fact that she did enter  into a 
repayment plan and that she stuck  to the payments  means that the debt will show  on her 
credit file until it is repaid.  I feel that she has been disadvantaged.
At the time Mrs S entered  into the repayment plan,  Shop Direct knew  that it would take her 
years to pay off the debt.  They  say that they passed each of the debts to another  company  
in June 2013, February 2014 and October 2014.  There was some  discussion over whether 
these were passed to the company to manage or whether they were  sold. It is clear to me 
from correspondence from Shop Direct that the debts were sold. So, at that point, Shop
Direct wouldve known  that they werent  going  to vary how the debt was to be repaid, that is, 
there was no plan to increase the repayments so that the debts were paid off earlier.
As Shop Direct knew that it would take over 20 years to pay off the debts, I think that it 
wouldve been fairer  for them to have  defaulted  the debts.
The repayment plan was agreed  in November 2012. This is when I think that Shop Direct 
were aware how long it would take to repay the debts. So, this is when they shouldve  
served the default notices. Then,  in December 2012, they shouldve registered the defaults 
on Mrs Ss credit file. 
Shop Direct say that if the accounts  are to be defaulted, they shouldve been  defaulted six 
months after the account had been  in arrears.  They say this is appropriate for a defaulted  
account. I can see how this would be appropriate  if Shop  Direct  were going to try to increase 
the payments  from Mrs S. But, I have seen nothing on their files to say this is what was 
happening. It was clear that Mrs S had received independent advice regarding  her finances. 
Her repayments were  all that she could afford  and these  were not likely to be increased 
within six months. So, I see no reason why they wouldve delayed registering a default.
Ref: DRN97742973my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to register  
defaults on the three accounts Mrs S held with them and backdate this to December 2012.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9774297