complaint
Mr O has complained about advice he received from S4 Financial Ltd to invest  in the Merchant Place  
Property Partnership No.58 (MPPP58) in July 2010.  This followed a cash call for further investment, 
which had arisen  due to fall in the propertys value  and a consequential breach of the loan to value 
covenant.
In particular, Mr O has said that the individual investment wasnt suited to his balanced risk profile,  
and that, in recommending the investment, S4 also failed to create  the overall balanced risk portfolio  
that was agreed  at the outset. Mr O has said that this has led to substantial  losses within his portfolio.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 21 August 2020, a copy  
of which  is attached.
In that decision,  I said that I was minded to not uphold  the complaint, for reasons which  are also set 
out in that decision.
In summary,  I concluded that Mr O was unaware  of at least one of the key risks associated with the 
MPPP58 investment, but I thought  that, given his awareness of other risks associated  with the 
investment which  would have a similar  effect,  he would still have proceeded if hed known about  that 
further additional risk. 
But I was also satisfied  that Mr O was aware,  and was justified in believing,  that the investment 
formed part of an overall balanced portfolio which S4 was creating for him. Having considered the 
asset split within that portfolio, along  with specific factors which would contribute  to the creation of 
such a portfolio for Mr O, I concluded  that the investment could reasonably be described as suitable.
S4s response to the provisional decision
S4s representative has responded to the provisional decision on S4s behalf, saying that it broadly 
accepted the outcome, but wished to add the following points in summary:  
S4s reasonable perception of Mr Os understanding
The provisional decision found that Mr O was aware of the nature of the investment and the 
attendant risks. It also found  that Mr O was provided with clear advice about the risks and had 
been furnished with documentation which he would have read and understood. Furthermore,  
had Mr O not understood matters, he would have raised this with S4.
But the representative asked that I consider  S4s alternative position,  which  didnt depend on 
the actual knowledge  or understanding of Mr O. This was that S4 had concluded, and was 
entitled to conclude, that Mr O was capable of understanding the advice given to him and the 
documents provided, and that S4 was entitled  to rely on the fact that Mr O had signed 
individual high net worth certificates.
In other  words, the representative said, S4s advice  and approach  was reasonable,  given its 
assessment of Mr Os level of understanding. And advice ought to be given in terms 
appropriate to the recipient.
Therefore, even if Mr O claimed  that he didnt understand the advice being given, this didnt  
mean that the advice was unsuitable  S4 had given the recommendation in a manner 
appropriate for Mr O.
S4 was entitled  to rely on Mr O querying anything  he didnt understand, and that he was a 
relatively sophisticated investor who was capable of making informed  choices and 
understanding formal documents  issued  to him.
To the extent that the provisional decision said that matters were understood by Mr O, S4 was 
also entitled to expect that they would have been  understood  and acted reasonably in 
proceeding on that basis.
Ref: DRN9281649To illustrate the point, the representative identified alternative  findings that it said could and 
should be made in relation to MPPP51   a property partnership recommended  in December 
2005 - but said that similar findings should  be made in the majority of the decisions:
oInstead of finding  that Mr O was capable of understanding the high net worth  
certificate, concluding that S4 was entitled  to believe that he understood it and had 
signed it, as it was appropriate for him to do so.
oInstead of finding  that Mr O could fairly  be described as an intelligent, capable  
individual who had the capacity to understand what was being proposed, concluding  
that S4 was entitled  to characterise  him in this manner and propose  an investment on 
the basis that he understood what was being  proposed.
oInstead of finding  that if Mr O had not understood the investment, he would have raised 
this, concluding  that, as he hadnt raised  any queries, Mr O had understood the nature 
of the investment.
oInstead of finding  that Mr O would have wanted  to satisfy himself that he understood 
the proposal before proceeding, concluding that S4 was entitled  to believe that Mr O 
had so satisfied  himself.
oInstead of finding  that Mr O wouldnt  have  believed  all the investments  held within his 
portfolio to carry a balanced risk rating, concluding that S4 was entitled to proceed on 
the basis that he would have understood that a portfolio  can properly be described  as 
balanced, despite individual investments carrying a higher level of risk.
Separation of complaints
S4s representative also submitted  further  commentary on our decision to consider seven of Mr Os 
complaints separately, saying the following in summary: 
The provisional decisions for the seven  complaints consistently approached the complaints on 
the basis that it was necessary to consider the investments as being part of an overall  
portfolio. The decisions  found that the individual investments constituted relatively  small 
percentages of the overall portfolio and that a balanced risk portfolio  need not consist  of only 
balanced risk investments. It was commonplace to diversify a balanced  portfolio using a range 
of higher and lower  risk investments.
But the representative didnt agree that there were in fact seven  separate complaints here  all 
seven were complaints  about  elements of a single investment  portfolio and so couldnt be 
considered as complaints about  those  elements  as if they were  standalone investments.
There was also a point of public policy here. Our scheme was designed as an informal dispute 
resolution service for dealing with relatively  low value complaints. It wasnt  the intention of 
Parliament that we should, by purporting  to separate complaints, claim a jurisdiction many  
times the monetary  limit applicable  under FSMA s.229(4). 
As set out in S4s letter of 9 April 2015,  it had asked this service to identify the source of our 
alleged power  to split complaints and for an explanation of the reasoning behind the splitting 
of the complaints, but it was unclear as to whether this had ever been fully addressed.
If the complaint was regarded as seven separate complaints,  this service would in theory  have 
the jurisdiction  to award over £1m  a dispute  of this magnitude would ordinarily  be determined 
in the Business & Property Courts and was wholly contrary  to our schemes purpose.
The representative said that, as the claims had failed, the issue  was academic  but S4 
wished to express the point so that it would not be thought  that the point about separating 
complaints had been abandoned.
Mr Os response  to my provisional  decision
Mr O didnt agree with the conclusion I had reached. Indeed, he made  many  lengthy submissions on 
my previous  decision,  running to some  35 pages. It would not be appropriate to repeat each and every 
one of those points here, but I can assure  Mr O that I have considered  them all. Instead  I will provide  
a summary of his points  as follows: 
Ref: DRN9281649All S4 had done from the start was increase  the risk in his portfolio  which had been  balanced  
risk in nature until the high risk investments  were  added.
My summary of his complaint was that which had been  used by S4 in its acknowledgement  
letter of 24 September 2013 to his complaint. S4s formal response, dated 5 December 2013, 
correctly clarified the complaint as being  that Mr O had been mis-sold a number  of 
investments, on the grounds that they were misrepresented and inappropriate for his needs.  
His complaint submitted to this service  reiterated  this.
By manipulating  the grounds for complaint, I had changed the focus of my response  to 
considering the portfolio as a whole, as opposed to considering whether individual  investments 
were appropriate  for him  and whether theyd  been misrepresented.
I had agreed that certain individual investments were inappropriate for a balanced risk 
investor, but in justifying  my conclusion, I had followed S4s approach, whereby each 
investment is looked at individually  and said to represent a certain  percentage of the overall 
portfolio. This was not fair or reasonable  rather the cumulative impact  of the high risk 
investments needed to be considered,  as that cumulative impact was substantial.
I had said that Mr O would have tolerated high risk ventures for a very small percentage of his 
portfolio if they were  offset by lower risk investments,  but he had actually  said that this would 
be tolerable only if they were offset by very low risk investments. I had in a number of 
instances isolated only the initial part of that statement, but this wasnt indicative of acceptance 
of a cascade of high risk investments.
He couldnt  see how I had mitigated the high risk investments with lower risk investments. I 
had significantly understated the amount of high risk investments, whilst simultaneously 
overstating the value of lower risk investments. This was caused by inaccurate information 
provided by S4 and my omission  of a number  of key investments which increased the risk 
significantly.
S4 had been clear from the start that Mr Os intention was to reduce  volatility  and risk within  
his portfolio. This was set out in S4s own response  to his complaint. But the reality was that 
both volatility and risk had increased.
My view that it was highly unlikely that Mr O believed  all of the investments to carry a balanced  
risk rating was unlawful, as per the conclusion of a judicial review into a previous 
ombudsmans findings on these cases. This also directly  contradicted  the findings of another  
ombudsman when  upholding  a case Mr O brought against a different business, in which  the 
ombudsman had said that:
if the business wanted to recommend a higher risk investment for inclusion in Mr Os 
ostensibly balanced risk portfolioit was up to the business to make this clear  to Mr O when  
making the recommendation, which the business failed to do.
I had concluded  that the higher risk nature of the investments was implied  through  the 
disclosure of the risks associated with the type of scheme.  But S4 wasnt clear, fair and not 
misleading in its description of the investments, as required  by the FCA. My findings  werent  
consistent with this. The individual investments were described  as being balanced  and this 
was unequivocally  misrepresentation.  There was only one instance, which  wasnt  the subject 
of this complaint,  where there was evidence that an investment had been described  as being 
high risk.
Mr O then set out greater detail on the above points, as follows  Im using his own subheadings:
Lack of consideration  of the overall  cumulative  impact of high risk investments
My approach of looking at the percentage of each individual  investment as a percentage of the 
overall portfolio  wasnt fair or reasonable  the cumulative impact of the high risk investments 
needed to be considered   and this was substantial.
My approach suggested that at least £1.5m of assets which  had been individually assessed as 
high risk were cumulatively suitable for a balanced risk portfolio.
I had said in the decision that, individually,  the MPPP58 cash  call represented a higher than 
balanced risk, and that only by inclusion in an overall balanced portfolio could this be 
considered to be suitable for Mr O. But this approach was illogical, and not fair or reasonable. 
The individual investments were described  as balanced which was misrepresentation by S4 
and there had to be repercussions for this.
Ref: DRN9281649My provisional decision to not uphold the complaint  was based on the higher risk investment 
being balanced by low risk investments. But the lower risk investments didnt exist to the 
extent that an overall balanced risk was maintained. Mr O said that, for every  suitability letter  
where the investment was described as balanced, the recommendation had the cumulative 
effect of further  increasing risk in his portfolio. This, he said, was illustrated by pie charts he 
included in his response. Nearly of all of S4s recommendations were high risk, if not very high 
risk.
S4s own representation of the investments as balanced risk, which Id said belied the reality  of 
the situation, meant that it would itself not have been capable of appreciating the overall 
exposure to risk in his portfolio.
I had looked  at each investment selectively, but if they were looked at cumulatively it was clear 
that S4 didnt  create a balanced risk portfolio.
Incomplete and inaccurate information provided by S4
S4 relied on poor information produced by its information system  this included significant  
errors and excluded many high risk investments.
No cash balances were held as investments  it just so happened that, in some  instances, 
there was cash on a particular date pending investment.
Individual investment values were  wrong  in a number of cases.
In one instance, Mr Os mortgage  of £353,000  and a childrens account of £48,109  were  
included as cash balances. But the childrens cash account never  existed
Many  of the dates  on the schedules were wrong. 
One of the investments, for £50,000 - included in the fixed income  allocation  - was a high risk 
investment which reduced to zero value. Another  was of a similar risk, although the money 
was returned.  But neither  could reasonably  be included in the category of low risk investments.
Cash calls on certain property investments - including this one - were categorised as fixed  
income, when they were  high risk commercial  property  investments.
The film partnership tax liabilities hadnt been  deducted from the portfolio and the tax risk 
hadnt been assessed.
The bare trusts for the children  hadnt  been  deducted  from the total portfolio.
One investment  in particular, a tax mitigation scheme which  wasnt  the subject of this 
complaint, had a true cost of £101,015  and contained a tax risk for many years. S4 artificially  
reduced the ongoing cost of the investment   and this was the case with a number of 
investments.
A previous ombudsman had concluded  that an investment wasnt  to be assessed as less risky 
at the point of sale just because risks havent  crystallised and caused  loss at the current point  
of assessment. But I hadnt taken this into account.
The VCT paid to date  figures were net of tax relief, whilst the value and growth figures  were  
included gross of tax relief.
Certain of the higher risk investments  werent  included in the schedules I relied upon. They 
needed to be, as the tax rebates  were designed  to be reinvested  to generate sufficient  returns  
to meet  the liabilities they created. A previous ombudsman had assessed these investments 
against the portfolio. I had disregarded them,  but included an investment called Invicta  a 
tax based film partnership - so that I could deem  it to be a suitable recommendation. This 
wasnt a fair or reasonable approach.
PEP and ISA valuations hadnt  been  updated  between June 2009 and September  2010.
On a number  of occasions,  the date that an investment was input  into the system was used, 
rather than when  it was actually  established.
Mr O had raised discrepancies with S4 when  the reports were issued, for example in an email  
dated 14 June  2011 he commented  that investments appeared to have disappeared, others 
had changed and one was still showing when it shouldnt.
The errors meant that Mr O was unable to reconcile the analysis  I had performed with the facts  
of the situation.  S4s own inability to accurately record the portfolio undermined the supposition 
that it had maintained  a balanced  risk portfolio.  The reality, including the true cost and liabilities 
associated with the investments, would have demonstrated that S4 was, from day one, 
creating a high risk portfolio.
Ref: DRN9281649No checks had been undertaken on the accuracy of the information.
Inaccurate and incomplete analysis performed by the Ombudsman
Mr O said that I had significantly understated the amount of high risk investments, whist 
simultaneously overstating the value  of lower risk ones.
Mr O set out a list of all new individual investments recommended  by S4, and those which  had 
been recommended  by the predecessor advising firm, which Mr O considered contributed  to 
the cumulative  risk rating  of his portfolio. This included a risk rating as defined by Brewin  
Dolphin for each  investment. 
With specific regard to the MPPP58 cash call, Mr O said the following:
My analysis  had used a portfolio valuation of £2.13m as at September 2010, with property  
exposure being around 20% of the portfolio (£422,000), property invested  in pension funds 
being £67,000, and 25% being invested in lower risk assets.
But a mortgage  of £353,000 was outstanding and a childrens account  of £48,109 was 
included as a cash balance. The childrens cash account never existed.
The amount  in Bare Trusts needed  to be removed and the Enigma investment corrected to 
the amount paid,  rather than the valuation  figure  of £99,484.
This gave a portfolio value of £1.52m. Pension fund assets of £377,000 needed to be adjusted 
for and liabilities  of £456,000  needed to be deducted to give a true portfolio valuation. 
Including this, and other,  further small amounts, high risk assets now totalled £1.82m.
The property investments held in the pension fund now totalled  £103,585 rather than the 
£67,000 I had quoted.
As at September 2010, the percentage for tax based non-property  schemes was 60% 
(£912,039), the percentage for property schemes (tax and non-tax based) was 31.1% 
(£473,070) and other high risk investments accounted for 28.9% (£440,000).
The total amount  invested in property was by this time 35.4%.
There was no cash held as investments   only small amounts pending reinvestment.
Non-managed cash and bonds  were recorded as being £401,109, but this didnt exist. This 
represented a mortgage account  of £353,000 and a fictitious  childrens bank account of 
£48,109.
The fixed  income amount as at 22 September 2010 was £68,551. But within this was included 
a high risk investment  which  reduced to zero, and a further cash  call (both high risk property 
transactions), and so the true fixed income amount was £23,433.
Huge amounts of high risk investments had been added. The fixed income was being used 
against the equity components of the balanced  risk portfolio, and no very low risk investments 
were recommended  by S4. 
He took exception to my representation of him being a balanced/aggressive investor. There  
was no suitability letter  which  recorded this and the report  dated 22 September 2010 clearly 
stated that his attitude to risk over the last review  period could realistically be described  as 
balanced.
Cash and fixed income  investments were an extremely small percentage of the portfolio and 
over 35% was invested in property when property funds  were added in. The true percentage 
for high risk investments was over 100%  of the portfolio, and given that the scheme was 
designed to form part of an overall  balanced portfolio, the total of high risk investments should 
be considered  rather  than individual investments in isolation.
Mr O then set out further points for my consideration:
In most instances I hadnt included in my assessment the high risk investments recommended  
by the previous advising business.  Given the high risk nature  of these investments and the 
stated objective  of reducing  volatility  and risk within the portfolio, only low risk investments 
should have been  recommended.
But the high risk investments only increased over time, whilst those appropriate for a balanced  
risk portfolio didnt.
Ref: DRN9281649Mr O further  reiterated that there were no cash investments  held in his portfolio  any such  
balances were  the result of the timing of investments or straightforward errors.
A cash investment  was very different from cash held pending reinvestment. And the fixed  
income amount  in the portfolio never approached anything near the target  amount of 20%.
The ombudsman who had considered complaints about film partnership  investments 
recommended by the previous advising firm had said that they carried  risks above those 
highlighted by that business.
Hed also said that an investment wasnt to be assessed as less risky at the point of sale just 
because potential risks hadnt been crystallised and caused loss at that particular point.
Mr O also provided  visual  representations of his investment portfolio over time, saying as background 
information that there had always been  three distinct parts  to his portfolio: the assets  which existed 
and continued  to be managed by him, namely  the Fidelity Unit trusts, PEPs and ISAs,  the Friends  
Provident policy and the share/fund accounts  with NatWest and Hargreaves Lansdown; the portfolio  
which S4 was creating; and the pension fund.
Mr O said that the existing assets were viewed by S4 as being higher risk due to the relatively large  
equity components.
Market definition of a balanced risk portfolio
Mr O noted my comment that that there  were  no hard and fast rules in terms of what constitutes a 
balanced risk portfolio.  But, he said, the market definition of a balanced risk portfolio was quite  specific 
 it was a mix of equities and bonds   and the greater  the percentage of equities, the higher the risk.
Mr O included risk classifications as set out by Brewin Dolphin, and said that investments  
recommended by S4 fell within risk levels  nine and ten  on a risk scale of one to ten (ten being the 
highest). It was clear  that Brewin Dolphin would not incorporate the vast majority of the recommended  
investments as suitable for a balanced risk portfolio  and this was true of every provider Mr O had 
looked at.
Weighting of high risk investments and consideration  of latitude
Mr O said that any latitude which might be given to including higher risk investments wasnt borne out, 
as the high percentage of high risk investments wasnt  balanced  by lower risk investments.
There was in any case no scope  for greater latitude here. Although  I had cited as a key aspect Mr Os 
acceptance of the specific  risks posed,  Mr O rejected the notion that he had accepted specific  risks 
other than those which S4 had presented to him as being appropriate for a balanced  risk portfolio. 
And a number of those  risks had in any case been  misrepresented or omitted.
I had also said that Mr O accepted that commercial property would form a part of his portfolio, but this 
was presented to him by S4 as being part of the balanced  risk portfolio. I had said that, as S4 had 
been willing  to commit the balanced  risk description in its own documents,  it was difficult to see how 
Mr O would be expected  to form any other view. But my comments relating  to greater latitude 
suggested that he should in fact have formed an alternative view.
The only evidence I had provided to substantiate  this comment was from a letter of complaint to the 
provider of property  partnerships which had been  recommended  by S4, which  had said that the 
existence of the associated  loans  wasnt an issue or concern for him. However, this was taken out of 
context and they werent his own words  but rather written by S4 in an attempt to deflect 
responsibility for the losses  he incurred. It was also made in the context of wanting assurance  that 
there would be no further losses as a result of the loans.
The loans were  in fact an issue for Mr O, given  that he was receiving threatening letters  about loans 
linked to one investment  in particular. It was therefore a leap to take this comment and apply it 
unilaterally to all of the investments.
Furthermore, although I had concluded that awareness of the additional risks wouldnt have altered Mr 
Os decision making, in his original letter of complaint  he had said that if hed been made aware of the 
significant risks, he wouldnt have invested.
Incorrect inclusion  of pension fund monies with the other investments
Ref: DRN9281649Mr O said that it was correct practice  to view pension funds separately from other investments, given 
that they were  ring fenced for retirement.  Two other financial advisers Mr O had spoken  to affirmed  
this view.
But if they were to be included, Mr O said, S4 had dramatically increased  the risk to which  they were 
exposed. He said that hed incurred losses from the high risk pension investments  of around £169,000 
as a result   leaving him with around  £170,000 (illiquid due to the nature of the investment) instead of 
the £900,000 which should  otherwise  have  been expected from typical returns  in a pension  fund.
Disregard of the performance aspects of the portfolio
Mr O said that the performance of the portfolio had been completely ignored. A balanced  risk portfolio 
should have significant growth over the relevant  period  and, if a balanced  risk portfolio had been 
created, the substantial  losses  shouldnt have occurred.
According to the Brewin  Dolphin Balanced Portfolios, over the 15 years from December 2004  to 
December 2019,  the return over that period should have ranged from 134.1% at risk level three to 
237.8% at risk level eight.
As Mr O was a balanced risk investor, he failed  to see how he had lost so much money. Any balanced 
risk portfolio  would have  performed well over the last 15 years,  showing significant  gains rather than 
losses. But it hadnt performed to expectations  because of the very high risk nature of the investments 
recommended by S4. Out of seven property partnerships, four had reduced to zero value, three  of 
which were in the pension funds. The others had also dropped by significant percentages.
Misrepresentation of risks by S4
Mr O said that nearly all of the investments recommended by S4 described  as balanced and suitable 
for his risk profile were too high risk, both generally and in the context of his personal risk profile.
Mr O said that I had concluded that they were high risk and that misrepresentation had occurred  in 
some instances, but I had said that there should  be no repercussions.
However, the deciding ombudsman  in the complaints  against  the previous  advising firm had reached 
different conclusions, Mr O said. That ombudsman had said that, whilst it was permissible for the 
portfolio of a balanced risk investor to hold some  high risk investments, there was no indication that 
the business had recommended the investments  in question on that basis   rather, Mr O was entitled 
to believe that they carried  a balanced  risk rating. The ombudsman said that if the business wanted  to 
include a high risk investment  in an ostensibly  balanced portfolio, it was up to the business to make 
this clear to Mr O, which it had failed to do in that instance. 
Mr Os view was that S4 hadnt  recommended  any investments to him as higher risk investments 
forming part of an overall balanced portfolio  it was unequivocal that every investment was described 
by S4 as being balanced.
Mr O said that this service was providing two contradictory conclusions. The first required S4 to clearly 
state the individual risk rating of investments at the time of each recommendation, whereas the 
second suggested it was reasonable to recommend a higher risk product for an overall balanced  
portfolio, irrespective of whether this was specifically stated.
I had also said that the higher risk nature of the investment was implied through the disclosure of the 
many risks associated with it, although  I had also agreed that, in a number of instances, higher risks 
werent disclosed. Mr O couldnt understand how S4 had been clear about  the nature of the 
investments when making its recommendations. The FCA requirement was that a firm must pay due 
regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate to them  in a way that is clear,  fair and 
not misleading.
Mr O couldnt understand  how the conclusion could be drawn that S4 had in this case been fair, clear 
and not misleading.  He could only conclude that the findings of the previous ombudsman were  
consistent with the FCAs  requirements, whereas my own were not. Only in one instance, which  was 
not the subject  of this complaint, had an investment been described as high risk.
I had said that S4s intention was to convey the overall risk of the portfolio when referring to 
recommendations as balanced, but S4 had specifically described one investment in 2010 as higher  
Ref: DRN9281649risk. It had said that, in isolation, the investment was higher risk than his stated profile  of balanced. I 
had also said that S4s assertion that this investment in isolation could be described as balanced  
belied the reality  of its features. As S4 was referring  to the investment  itself as balanced, Mr O queried 
as to how this could not be described as misrepresentation.
Mr O also challenged my statement that it was highly unlikely that he would have believed all of his 
investments to have  borne a balanced  risk rating. He noted  that I said that this was endorsed by his 
own comments relating  to other property investments being designed to balance the more volatile 
aspects of his portfolio.  But these werent his own comments, Mr O said. Rather,  they were taken from 
the suitability letters.
It was therefore reasonable for him to conclude  that all of the investments recommended were  
balanced in nature, and cumulatively formed a balanced portfolio. But as had been demonstrated, it 
was far from balanced.
The ombudsman does  not comply with the Judicial Review
Mr O said that the Judicial Review of the initial findings in these cases  set out the following:
9. With respect to the Merits  Decisions, these  apply to the First Claimant  only.  It seems to me that 
it is arguable that the Defendant erred in his approach to whether the investment advice by the 
First Interested  Party was suitable. The first claimant was described as a Balanced  Investor or 
having a Risk Profile Balanced. There is evidence that when a riskier  investment  was being  
discussed, the First Claimant was specifically informed  of its greater risk. That did not apply to 
the investments about  which  the First  Claimant complains.
10. In the circumstances  and in the absence  of specific  evidence that the First Claimant  actually 
understood that the product being advised  about  was of greater risk, it was arguably unlawful for 
the Defendant to reject his complaints on the basis that the First Claimant  knew  or should have 
known that the risk was higher than  a balanced risk and that the advice given was therefore 
suitable. (Mr Os emphasis)
I had said in my findings that I didnt think Mr O, appreciating  the risks involved in the individual 
investments, would have  believed  all of them to carry a balanced risk rating.  But Mr O said that I had 
failed to provide  specific evidence  that he understood they would carry a higher  risk. This theme  of 
speculation was, according to Mr O, recurring  and also featured  in my conclusion that, with regard to 
a property partnership  investment,  knowledge  of undisclosed specific risks would have altered his 
decision making. 
Mr O said that he did believe all of his investments to carry a balanced  risk rating, as this was what  he 
was being told by S4  the experts. In the findings of the deciding  ombudsman in the cases against 
the previous advising firm, he had said that the investments were described  as balanced risk and it 
was therefore  reasonable  for Mr O to take that message away  and rely on it.
Whilst Mr O was flattered by the description  attributed to him of being an intelligent capable individual 
who would  have capacity  to understand what was being proposed,  he said my conclusion  that it was 
unlikely he would have  believed all of his investments to carry a balanced risk rating was contrary to 
the previous ombudsmans findings,  and those of the judicial review.
Mr O said it was insufficient to speculate that he knew  the investments were anything  other than 
balanced risk, given how they were  presented by S4. And the judicial review had been clear  that any 
such claim was unarguably unlawful.
S4s lack of compliance  with the Principles of the Financial Conduct  Authority
Mr O set out the high level principles  as required by the FCA, as follows:
Integrity  A firm must conduct  its business  with integrity. 
Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
Management and Control   A firm must  take care to organise and control its affairs  
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. 
Ref: DRN9281649Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly. 
Communications with clients  A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them that is clear,  fair and not misleading. 
Conflicts of Interest   A firm must  take reasonable  care to manage  conflicts  of interest  fairly 
both between itself and its customers and between a customer  and another client. 
Customers: relationship of trust  A firm must  take reasonable care to ensure  the suitability 
of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer  who is entitled to rely upon  its 
judgement. 
Mr O said that, to act with integrity  would have required S4 to honestly  and accurately disclose the 
true risk profile of the investments.  But Id concluded that S4 had failed, in some  instances, to disclose 
a number of key risks.
I had also concluded  that the investment represented  a higher than balanced risk rating, but S4 was of 
the belief that they were balanced in isolation. S4 couldnt therefore be described  as displaying skill 
care or diligence.
Regarding management and control, Mr O said that hed already highlighted the extent  of the 
inaccuracy of S4s information system  and in the absence of a properly functioning  system,  it 
couldnt possibly  have properly monitored his risk exposure, which  resulted in unsuitable 
recommendations.
Mr O questioned whether  S4 had any regard  to his interests, or whether it was simply driven  by a 
desire to generate revenue. It ignored  his risk profile and objectives, principally that of reducing  risk in 
his portfolio, instead recommending  high risk products.
Conflicts were  clearly  created in a number of situations, Mr O said.  Firstly,  when it asked him for a 
loan and then,  when arranging a separate investment between one of its clients  and other clients.
In Mr Os view,  the two most significant breaches in the principles were its lack of due regard to his 
information needs and communication of information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. He was 
also unable  to rely on its judgment in giving suitable recommendations.
An independent view
Mr O asked an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to review the portfolio. His view had been that a 
balanced portfolio can be made up of low, medium and higher risk investments, but the key was to 
ensure that higher risk investments didnt  outweigh the lower risk ones.
The IFAs view was that Mr Os portfolio was very high risk in nature, with little low risk investment to 
offset the high risk schemes  and that the risk had been exacerbated by reinvesting tax rebates  into 
further non-approved tax schemes, thereby magnifying the risk and future tax liabilities. Also,  no 
account had been made  of all the higher risk equity  in the portfolio.
The IFA also commented that, when Mr O had been  planning  to use some  investment funds to pay for 
an extension on his main  property, he was advised to remortgage and invest the proceeds for the 
short term in equity  funds  and a further  high risk investment  - instead  of drawing on investment funds. 
This increased the overall risk to which he was exposed, along with increasing the mortgage to its 
maximum amount. 
In summary,  Mr O said that it was difficult to see how the conclusions  I had reached were fair and 
reasonable. The provisional decision was driven by the figures I had presented,  but these werent 
representative of the true facts of the situation.
Although I had said that Mr O would  have tolerated high risk ventures for a small percentage of his 
portfolio, these were  never offset  by lower risk investments.
Mr O said that he was continually mis-sold  investments  which were misrepresented  and inappropriate 
for his needs. All investments were sold to him as balanced. As I had concluded that they couldnt 
reasonably be described as balanced,  but S4 asserted that they were,  Mr O couldnt  understand how 
this wasnt misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN9281649In closing, Mr O said that S4 had failed to abide by the FCA principles of communicating with clients, 
along with skill, care and due diligence   and it was arguably unlawful to reject his complaint on the 
basis that he knew, or ought  to have known, that the risk was higher than balanced.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I'm required  by the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) 
and DISP to determine the complaint by reference  to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.
When considering  what's  fair and reasonable, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators' rules, guidance, standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the relevant time.
S4s responses to my provisional decision
S4s representative has asked that I consider  alternative findings  such as, for example, S4 being 
entitled to conclude that Mr O understood the investment and associated risks, rather than being 
capable of understanding them. And that its advice was therefore reasonable in that slightly different 
context.
I appreciate the point  being made here,  but I dont think it makes a meaningful  difference  to my overall 
view on the aspects for which those alternative analyses have been  provided, for reasons which Ill 
explore further  below.  
Separation of complaints
Ive thought carefully about the further  representations on this, but remain  of the view that this 
complaint should  be considered separately  and on its own merits. Ill explain why.
S4s representative has said that the provisional decision has repeatedly made the point that the 
investments should  be considered as a part of an overall portfolio, and so they shouldnt  be treated as 
stand-alone investments when thinking about  whether they are separate  complaints.
The definition of a complaint within the FCAs handbook when Mr O submitted his complaint(s) to this 
service was as follows:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf of, 
a person about the provision of, or failure  to provide, a financial service  or a redress 
determination, which:
1.(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress  or 
material inconvenience; and
2.(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom  
that respondent has some connection  in marketing  or providing financial services or products, 
which comes under  the jurisdiction  of the Financial Ombudsman Service .
I accept that activity  could reasonably refer to either the creation of an overall portfolio or to advice  
about an individual investment. But I think the word product would be much more closely aligned to 
an individual investment, irrespective of whether that product formed part of an overall portfolio.
But even if another interpretation was possible here, Ive also taken into account the nature and 
timings of the activity here, i.e. the recommendations for the individual investments. This wasnt a 
situation in which a portfolio was created as a single  piece of investments advice, involving all of the 
recommended investments, and which took place  after one meeting, or even over a short period of 
time. As Ive already  noted previously, these instances of advice took place over a period of six or 
more years.
Ref: DRN9281649And so, whilst the continuing  objective may have been to fit the investments  into an overall  portfolio, I 
dont think they could reasonably be said to be part of a single, overarching investment plan.
They were  distinct pieces  of investment advice, with their own suitability assessments and letters  of 
recommendation. And they fulfilled quite  different  objectives within  the overall portfolio. For example, 
the tax planning schemes  (such as this) with the prospect of tax rebates were,  as I said in the 
provisional decision, more akin to wealth  maintenance  rather  than wealth creation through  investment  
returns on the original  capital. I appreciate Mr O disagrees with this conclusion, and that they werent 
designed as tax mitigation strategies, but Ill address that presently. The non-tax based schemes on 
the other hand  were investments which were expected to produce a return  on those  capital amounts. 
Ive also noted  the comment about  this being  a matter of public policy and a query as to what would 
have been intended by Parliament when setting  up this service. But Ive also thought  about  this from 
the opposing perspective. If I were to agree with S4s representative, the entirety of a consumers 
relationship with an advising firm, over a period of potentially decades,  and incorporating many 
instances of financial  advice, could be said to be the provision of an investment portfolio  by the 
representatives reckoning, a single financial service  or activity. And extending  the representatives 
logic in this way, complaints  about the provision of advice on quite different products, many  years 
apart, would also need  to be considered  as a single complaint because they were designed to create 
an overall portfolio.
I dont think this was Parliaments intention. I would also challenge this perspective on the basis  of the 
likely, and somewhat  perverse, result of a situation  whereby  a complaint was made on a single aspect 
of a firms advice, subsequently addressed and decided by this service, which was then followed by a 
later complaint about a different piece of advice. According  to the scenario outlined above, this would 
need to be dismissed  because  the overall  provision of a portfolio had already been  assessed  on 
the basis that the original complaint about a separate piece of investment advice had had a 
determination on it.
This would surely be nonsensical,  and cannot have been the intention of Parliament. The only way in 
which this could make  any sense would be for the advising business, upon receipt of a complaint 
about an individual piece of advice, to then review every piece of advice  it had given throughout the 
relationship - as Ive said, potentially over decades -with its client.  But businesses understandably 
dont do this  they restrict their consideration to the individual piece of advice in question, albeit 
perhaps against the background of a wider portfolio. And notably S4 also hasnt done  this here. It 
actively (and justifiably  as endorsed by both this service and the courts) sought to deem  certain of Mr 
(and Mrs) Os investments  outside  of our jurisdiction by separating out instances of investment advice, 
even before the complaints had been referred  to this service,  as evidenced by its final response letter 
to Mr O  and so it was unwilling to consider the entirety of the investment advice, or the whole 
portfolio, given over the many years  of its relationship with Mr O. 
It may have been the case that Mr O submitted his concerns  about  all of the investments at the same 
time. But this isnt uncommon.  A review of advice over many years can reveal in a consumers eyes  
many instances of what they consider  to be unsuitable recommendations  and so they submit  those 
concerns together.
But Mr O might just as readily have submitted these concerns separately.  And having addressed the 
individual merits of a case involving, say, a tax based scheme, I must consider whether S4 would then 
have sought to dismiss a complaint, perhaps a year later,  about  a non-tax based property partnership  
investment on the basis that a complaint about  the overall  portfolio  had already been  addressed.  I 
think this is unlikely. S4 would have addressed the individual merits of that further investment  and 
done so on the basis that it was a separate complaint.
Mr O should not therefore  be penalised in terms of the potential scope of an overall monetary  award 
for having raised his concerns about many  investments in a single complaint letter. As such,  I dont 
think the scope  of Mr Os complaints, or our ability to consider them  individually, should be fettered  by 
his decision to submit his concerns about several  instances of advice at the same time.
Ref: DRN9281649I appreciate the point  that this serves  to increase the potential liability of S4 if awards  were  to be 
made, but with respect, this is beside the point. Given my comments  above, I dont think  the 
proposition of considering Mr Os concerns  about  separate pieces of investment advice as one 
complaint is fair, reasonable  or tenable.
Mr Os response  to my provisional  decision
Mr O has made specific preliminary comments in advance of more detailed  discussion under separate 
headings. For ease  of reference,  Ill follow the same format in addressing  those points, but will, for 
reasons which  will hopefully become clear,  leave my further assessment of the assets contained  
within Mr Os portfolio  to the end.
Mr O has said that all S4 had done from the start was to increase the risk in his portfolio, which had 
been balanced risk in nature until those  higher  risk investments were added. But as Ive set out in the 
provisional decision, and as has been  seemingly accepted by both Mr O and the IFA from whom  hes 
sought a further  opinion,  a balanced risk portfolio may contain some  higher risk investments, which  
would be expected to be balanced  out by other lower risk investments. To the extent that this has 
been achieved  in this instance  Ill discuss later in this decision.
Mr O has also objected to my summary  of his complaint, saying that by mischaracterising this I had 
changed the focus of my response  to a consideration of the portfolio  as a whole, as opposed  to 
whether the individual  investments were  suitable for him.
But I feel I should point  out Mr Os own view on the nature of his complaint has seemingly changed 
over time. For example, in his initial complaint to S4 dated 17 September  2013, it wasnt particularly 
explicit as to whether  Mr O was complaining about the risk rating  of individual  investments or the 
alleged failure  of S4 to establish  an overall balanced  portfolio. A concluding remark towards the end of 
the complaint  letter  would,  however, perhaps  suggest the latter:
You have failed to manage my portfolio  as one of Balanced Risk Profile.
S4 acknowledged  the complaint on 24 September 2013, saying that:
It is important that we clarify your grounds  for complaint. Our understanding of your complaint in 
summary is that:
In recommending the investments detailed in your letter,  the firm has failed to create the 
balanced risk portfolio  that was agreed  at the outset  and that this has led to substantial  losses  
within your portfolio.
Mr O didnt appear to object to that description.  S4 then issued its final response letter on 5 December 
2013, setting out its understanding  of Mr Os complaint  as follows:
That you were mis-sold a number of investments on the grounds  that they were
Misrepresented
inappropriate  for your needs.
Mr O then submitted his complaint to this service,  setting out the following as grounds for complaint:
It was against this (balanced) definition, which I assessed the suitability of investments that were  
recommended. Every recommendation from S4 clearly stated Balanced  and it was against the 
background of this that Investments were made. I expected S4s knowledge to recommend 
appropriate investments  against this Risk Profile. I would not be prepared  to tolerate anything that 
could be deemed  to be of high risk unless for a very small percentage of my portfolio which could be 
offset by a very low risk investment. If this was not the case they should have been  clearly defined to 
me as being  of high risk. Not one ever was.
On all recommendations, I relied on the knowledge and expertise of S4 to give me the appropriate 
advice against  a backdrop of a balanced  risk profile. We agreed a Balanced Risk Profile  and 
Ref: DRN9281649according to their correspondence every recommendation they have made clearly states the 
investment met this profile.  Balanced.
The adjudicator then assessed  the merits of Mr Os complaint, and taking his cue from Mr Os 
description above, summarised the complaint as follows:
Specifically you've complained:
S4's recommendation wasn't  appropriate for your risk profile. The investment exposed your 
capital to a greater level of risk than you were willing to take.
The investment resulted in a substantial and unexpected loss many years  later.
The investment was highly illiquid.
S4 did not undertake  sufficient due diligence and research.
S4 failed to make  clear  the associated risks.
To which Mr O later responded  as follows in his letter dated 28 May 2018:
I do not understand why he (the adjudicator) has expanded this as above  the complaint was quite 
clear - the grounds for my complaint were - from S4s letter  dated 24th September  2013 - "It is 
important that we clarify  your grounds for complaint. Our understanding of your  complaint 
in summary  is that: In recommending the investments  detailed in your letter, the firm has 
failed to create the balanced risk portfolio that was agreed  at the outset and that this has led 
to substantial  losses  within your portfolio." (my emphasis)
So this was the last version of Mr Os complaint  from Mr O directly - which this service  received. And 
I consider this to be consistent with the manner in which  I too set out the grounds for his complaint.
Mr O has, somewhat uncharitably in my view (and Ill address some of the language used, and 
implications made, by Mr O in his response  to my provisional decision presently), contended that Ive 
manipulated the grounds for complaint and thereby changed the focus  of my response. But taking  the 
above into account, I cannot  agree that if any manipulation  of the complaint has occurred over time,  
this has been  on the part of either this service  or S4. 
It has in any case been possible for me to decide both whether the investment would have been 
suitable in isolation  for a balanced risk investor,  or cumulatively  as a part of a balanced  risk portfolio  
and I set out my reasoning on both perspectives in my provisional decision.  For clarity, I concluded 
that in isolation  I didnt think it could be deemed suitable for a balanced risk investor  because  of the 
risks involved. But I did say that, depending on the overall asset  split, it could form part of a balanced 
risk portfolio.  I appreciate that Mr O is of the view (as described in his most recent version of the 
complaint) that he understood each investment to bear a balanced  risk rating, but Ill address this in 
further detail later on in this decision.
Mr O has also said that Ive focussed  on his statement  that he would have  tolerated  high risk ventures 
for a small percentage of his portfolio  if they were balanced out by lower  risk investments. Hes said 
that in many instances  Ive isolated  only the first part of that sentence. But Im afraid this isnt the case 
 at no point in the provisional decision have I indicated that he was willing to accept high risk 
investments, in isolation, without there  being  the balancing effect of corresponding lower risk 
investments. I dont therefore consider  that there has been any misrepresentation here.
Mr Os further  argument is that I had significantly  understated  the higher risk investments whilst 
simultaneously overstating the lower  risk investments. My comment on this is quite straightforward  
in reaching the conclusions  I did about  the assets splits within Mr Os portfolio at the time of the 
advice, Ive (justifiably in my view) relied upon the financial reports which were issued to Mr O on a 
yearly basis setting out valuations of his portfolio. Whilst  I can see that on occasion Mr O queried the 
content of those reports and requested more detail, I couldnt find anything approaching the level of 
detail to which Mr O has gone to in response to my provisional decision in attempting to correct those 
Ref: DRN9281649valuations. As such, I considered them to be a reliable  indicator of the portfolio content and valuation 
at the time.
Having reviewed the valuations further  in light of Mr Os response to my provisional decision, my view 
remains that, albeit  with certain amendments, they are broadly representative of the portfolio position 
at the times they were  issued. But Ive left my further assessment of the asset split to the end of this 
decision.
Mr O has then commented  on S4s statement within its response to his complaint that the intention  
from the start was to reduce  volatility and risk within his portfolio  whereas the reality was that both 
had increased. But whilst  that may have been the overall objective,  it omits the second part of the 
complaint response  which referred  to agreed target  allocations, including  a 30% target  for commercial 
property exposure.  This is in my view reasonably indicative of conversations around  a bespoke 
portfolio, which  complemented  Mr Os understanding  of investment risk and preparedness and 
tolerance to invest higher  amounts in less conventional investments. Again, I deal with these  issues  in 
more detail presently.
My view as expressed in the provisional decision that it was highly unlikely that Mr O would have 
believed all of his investments to be balanced risk was unlawful, Mr O has said,  as per the 
conclusion of the judicial review. For now, Ill simply remind  Mr O that this was not a judgement  
following a judicial review, but comments made  by the judge when considering  whether to permit the 
application for judicial review. No judicial review findings were made, as the previous decisions on this 
case were quashed  by consent.  But even  if those comments formed part of substantive findings by 
the court, a crucial missing word  here in Mr Os quote was arguably unlawful, and only then in the 
absence of specific evidence to support the previous ombudsmans  finding.  For the reasons Ill set out 
later, I consider  the situation of supporting evidence to be quite different.
Mr O has also commented that it was my conclusion  that the high risk nature of the investment was 
implied through the disclosure of the attendant risks.  I do think  that the risks set out by S4 would, to an 
intelligent, capable individual  such as Mr O, have  suggested an investment which presented  a higher  
risk than might otherwise be associated with balanced risk investments. For example, the possibility of 
total loss of the investment is not something which  might be expected  to be associated  with a more  
mainstream balanced risk investment, where fluctuations as a result  of market  performance might 
otherwise be expected   along with the safety  net of Financial Services  Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) protection if the institution  providing  the investment failed.
So I dont  think that finding is unfair or unreasonable.  But it must also be read in the context of my 
other findings on this matter, which were - broadly  that Mr O was nevertheless entitled to believe 
that higher risk investments  would be balanced out to produce an overall  balanced but bespoke, risk 
portfolio.
As to Mr Os preliminary comments relating to S4s adherence, or otherwise, to regulatory principles 
and obligations,  Ill address these  under the dedicated subheading  below.
Lack of consideration  of the overall  cumulative  impact of high risk investments
I dont consider that Mr Os criticism of my approach is fair  I have quite explicitly considered  Mr Os 
individual investment against the backdrop  of his overall portfolio valuation,  which  has by its very 
nature included a consideration of the cumulative impact of the various investments. I may have 
referred predominantly to percentages, but this is in my view a perfectly  acceptable method of 
assessing an impact that this type of proportion  of particular investments would have on a portfolio.
Its Mr Os view that all high risk investments recommended, including  those recommended  by the 
predecessor advising firm, should  be included in the portfolio valuation,  which  has, certainly for 
complaints about  later investments,  resulted  in an impossible  situation portrayed by Mr O of the 
investments held exceeding  100% of the portfolio valuation. But many of the previously 
recommended investments which Mr O wanted to be included no longer held a value by that point, 
having fulfilled  the purpose of, for example,  producing significant  tax rebates.
Ref: DRN9281649And whilst this makes no difference to my own ability to assess the portfolio and the proportions of 
high risk investment  contained therein, Ive also noted the way in which Mr O has taken into account  
the cumulative  effect of high risk investments in the portfolio, particularly in reducing the portfolio value 
by the amount of exposure to potential (as yet unrealised)  future  tax liabilities,  whilst simultaneously 
increasing the value of the overall  investment,  or exposure, in those high risk schemes, even though  
they no longer  held a value for the purposes  of the reports.
This had the inevitable  effect of increasing  the percentage  of high risk investments in Mr Os versions 
of the valuations, resulting in the type of scenario referred to above, where a category of investments 
is said to represent  more than 100% of the valuation. Even if I were to agree that the exposure to 
future tax liabilities should be included, which Im afraid I dont, for reasons I explain below, that 
exposure shouldnt  be double counted for the purpose of increasing exposure, but then also 
reducing the size of the portfolio.
Mr O has also said that my approach  suggested that at least £1.5m  of higher risk assets  would be 
cumulatively suitable  for a balanced  risk portfolio. This was, of course, not the case. The percentages 
I inferred from the valuation reports were very different to those recently provided by Mr O, and it was 
those lower proportions  which  I deemed  to be suitable  for a balanced risk portfolio. And those 
percentages of high risk investments are discussed  in more detail in the later section relating to the 
asset splits.
I would further  provide  the same answer  to Mr Os assertion that the lower risk investments were  
overstated and that there was a failure on S4s part to properly balance the portfolio. I relied upon the 
detail contained  within the valuation reports, which I discuss in more detail later.
Although there was no actual description  of the investments  risk profile in 2010  when the cash call 
was made,  S4 had described it in 2006  when Mr O first invested as being  suited  to Mr Os agreed  
risk profile. So I do think that Mr O has a valid point  relating to S4s own description of the individual  
investment belying  the reality of the situation,  and that this might mean that it would have been 
incapable of assessing the overall exposure to risk in the portfolio. But I dont need to rely on S4s 
view of either individual or overall  risk when assessing the actual risk to which the portfolio was 
exposed  and whether  this was suitable for Mr O. The description of the assets held, and a 
determination on the percentages, and cumulative exposure, of/to those assets, is sufficient for me to 
be able to determine whether it reasonably constituted a balanced risk portfolio which was suitable  for 
Mr O.
And finally, in this section,  I firmly reject Mr Os criticism that Ive looked at this investment selectively 
Ive considered the nature of the individual investment  and then assessed whether  this, in light of both 
its own value and taking  into account the proportion of other higher risk assets held, was suitable for 
an overall balanced risk portfolio for him.
Incomplete and inaccurate information provided by S4
Mr O has said that S4 relied  upon poor information produced  by its information system. I accept that 
this may have been true in some minor respects, but I should also say that, just because Mr O 
disagrees with the way in which some of the information has been presented, this doesnt mean it was 
wrong. And as I set out at the end of this decision, Im afraid  I dont agree with much of Mr Os own 
analysis of the valuations produced by S4.
As stated previously,  Mr Os position is that the film partnership tax liabilities hadnt been deducted 
from the portfolio,  but should have  been. Notwithstanding my comments above  about the double 
counting of investment  exposure and liabilities  to increase the exposure  on the one hand and 
reduce the portfolio value  on the other, the return on the reinvested tax rebates (with further tax relief  
provided by the VCTs for example), was intended  to offset any future liability  to income  tax produced  
by the film partnership. It was further  predicted  that Mr O would have retired  at around 50, and so his 
marginal rate of income tax may well have reduced  when that tax became due. As tax mitigation, or 
deferral, schemes, the expected return on the rebates needed to achieve a hurdle  rate, and if it did 
so, Mr O would have  remained in profit. 
Ref: DRN9281649Furthermore, any future liability to tax would have the inevitable effect of either naturally reducing the 
value of the portfolio when it became due if other investments needed  to be encashed, or being  paid 
for by surplus cash held outside of the portfolio. I therefore think it wasnt unreasonable to exclude  
potential future liabilities, before they actually became due, in the valuations. 
But importantly this doesnt mean  Ive assessed  the high risk investments as being  any less risky. The 
probability of the tax liability in the film partnerships, not to mention the possibility of future  claw back  
of tax relief by HMRC,  was very real  and formed part of the risks highlighted in the description  of the 
product.
As regards  the reporting of the paid to date  figures  for the VCTs, this is really no different from a 
grossed up pension funds performance being  compared against the value of premiums actually paid 
by the policyholder. So I dont think the way this was presented  was necessarily unreasonable.  And I 
dont in any case think this has had an impact on the overall  valuation  of the portfolio  the grossed up 
value is the actual value for the purposes  of the portfolio valuation.
Mr O has also said that certain  of the higher  risk investments werent  included  in the schedules I relied 
upon. That appears to be the case for three investments, two of which  were  established  just days 
before that particular  valuation was produced  but I have in any case added  them  to my further  
analysis of the portfolio where appropriate.  A further  property partnership  wasnt included  on any of 
the investments   but similarly,  I have added that into my further assessment for when that 
investments value should have become a part of the portfolio. 
Other tax based  investments  didnt feature in the valuations, but where they werent, those  schemes 
had no residual value,  having produced the necessary losses to achieve the payment of tax rebates. 
And the reason I have included an investment such as Invicta is only where  it is the subject of the 
complaint, and would  or should  - have been  counted as having a value in the portfolio at that point. 
It would seem difficult to me to discuss the impact  of that additional investment without bestowing it 
with a value as at the point the funds were invested. But even if I didnt include the cost or value of the 
investment, this would  simply  have  the effect  of reducing the amount of the high risk investments 
which Ive otherwise concluded were  contained in the portfolio.
As to the date of the input  of investments being used instead of the date that they were  established, 
S4 has said that there may have been  instances  where the start date for some  investments was 
recorded as that of the contract note rather than when the investment was actually  made. But I dont 
think this has had a material effect on either S4s ability to manage  Mr Os portfolio or my own to 
assess the suitability  of the investments,  including this one, when they were made. 
S4 has also said that, in respect of the PEP and ISA valuations between  June  2009  and September 
2010, it was reliant  upon Mr O to provide this information. Up until June 2009, Mr O was providing  a 
full breakdown of the holdings he was himself  managing, but S4 has said that after this Mr O only 
provided headline  valuation  information. By July 2009, Mr O had once again provided the relevant 
information and the valuations were  updated.  S4 has provided  copies of the interim valuations 
between June 2009 and September 2010, in which the high value ISAs were attributed  a value, but 
the breakdown  of individual shares was absent.  Instead, it described the holding as Value Only 
Equities.
I appreciate that Mr O may disagree  with S4s explanation, but I dont in any case  think that it would 
make a meaningful  difference to the outcome here. The breakdown of individual shares  held in the 
ISAs may have been missing for a time,  but their overall values,  which is the important aspect  in terms 
of attributing a value to a particular asset  class, did change during that period. 
Mr O also said that he had himself  raised queries and discrepancies  over some of the detail contained 
in the reports  in an email  dated 14 June 2011. These  errors  meant  that Mr O had been unable to 
reconcile the analysis I had performed. But as I set out at the end of this decision, Im satisfied that 
Ive been able to properly  assess  the portfolio valuations   and determine whether it enabled S4 to 
create the balanced  risk portfolio he was justified in expecting.
Regarding the cash  calls on certain property investments being categorised as fixed income,  I 
address those matters  in the complaints where this is a relevant consideration in those valuations.  
Inaccurate and incomplete analysis performed by the Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281649As Ive said previously, Ill address the further  specific points made by Mr O regarding the asset splits 
in his portfolio  when  this investment was made  at the end of this decision. 
But there is one point I need  to address here.  Mr O has objected to my comment relating to his 
aggressive/balanced risk rating recorded in September 2010 being indicative of his risk attitude two 
months previously.  I dont  think this was an unreasonable conclusion, given what was recorded, but I 
also accept Mr Os point that throughout the preceding year,  which included this investment 
complained of, the report said that he had maintained  a balanced risk profile.
I dont think this makes a material difference, however, as I in any case assessed  in my provisional 
decision whether  the asset split in September 2010 was consistent  with a balanced portfolio  and 
concluded that it was.
Market definition of a balanced risk portfolio
Mr O has contended that, contrary to my comment that there were no hard and fast rules  in the 
creation of a balanced portfolio, the market definition  is quite specific   it is a mix of equities and 
bonds. Im afraid I cant agree with Mr O on this point. A balanced portfolio can take many  guises, and 
most certainly would  not be restricted to bonds and equities. To suggest this excludes the inclusion of 
property, cash or money market instruments, and several other types of financial instrument. 
Furthermore, what might be an array of entirely balanced risk investments for one balanced risk 
investor in the creation of a balanced  portfolio might take the form of a range of high and low risk 
investments for another. And so I stand by my previous comment, in that there  are no set rules for the 
creation of a balanced risk portfolio.
Mr O has, with the assistance  of information  from Brewin Dolphin, said that the investment 
complained of fell within  the top two risk ratings, eight or nine on a scale  of one to ten, and that Brewin  
Dolphin would not in any case incorporate the vast majority of the investments recommended  by S4 in 
a balanced risk portfolio.
Its unclear to me whether  this is information  which that firm has provided to Mr O, or has been 
inferred by Mr O from his own research.  But I dont think that really  matters. I would simply reiterate 
here what Ive said above. Different portfolios will have a different asset split  and on the basis  of an 
understanding of the risk involved,  high risk investments  might  reasonably  be included. The evidence 
here is that a bespoke  portfolio was being created for Mr O, with his agreement on some  target  asset 
allocations. Therefore, what I must determine  is whether the ultimate portfolio arrived  at could be fairly  
described as being  balanced,  and appropriately so for Mr O.
Weighting of high risk investments and consideration  of latitude
Its Mr Os view that there was no scope for latitude  in the creation of a balanced risk portfolio. He 
rejected the notion that he had accepted  specific risks other than those which  had been presented to 
him as being  appropriate  for a balanced risk portfolio.
Ill set out my further view on Mr Os likely awareness that not all of his investments carried  a balanced  
risk rating in a later section. But it was factors such as those very risks, of which Mr O was aware  by 
reason of them being included in the suitability  letter, which in my view did provide greater latitude in 
creating a balanced risk portfolio. For example, Mr O was accepting  of the prospect, no matter  how 
remote, of losing his entire investment, and also accepted the other specified risks. 
As Ive said above,  a balanced risk portfolio for one person can be quite  different  to that for another. 
And my view on this is that Mr O was the type of individual  who was prepared  to accept the inclusion 
of higher risk investments  if there was balance in the form of lower  risk ones. And he has himself 
agreed with this proposition. 
Mr O was also an investor with a significant  investment portfolio and, by my understanding,  prior to his 
early retirement, a sizeable annual income.  This would ordinarily  mean that Mr O had a higher 
capacity for loss, as he had the means  of replacing lost capital through  earnings. But I also think this 
Ref: DRN9281649reasonably feeds into his tolerance  for high risk investments, especially those  which might have 
deferred a higher rate tax on his income to a point when his income was significantly lower.  Moreover,  
Mr O was capable of appreciating and understanding the risks involved in the recommended  
investment.
Its also notable that, in his response, Mr O has referred to six different versions of a Brewin  Dolphin 
balanced portfolio, thereby perhaps unintentionally lending  credence to the notion that there are 
simply no set rules  which govern the creation of a balanced portfolio. The different levels  and 
percentages of performance over 15 years  for those different balanced portfolios must of course 
suggest differing  types and percentages of higher and lower  risk assets.
My view is that a description  of an individual investment being suited to a balanced  risk profile might 
reasonably be construed as it, in and of itself, representing a moderated level of risk. And this wasnt 
the case here  the investment in my view represented a higher than balanced, or moderated  risk. 
But importantly, a balanced portfolio, whilst moderated by way of its profile of a range of differently 
risk rated investments, doesnt necessarily  equate  to one which  bears an overall medium risk, for 
example. Again, the Brewin Dolphin range of balanced portfolios bears  this out, ranging in its offering 
from a very low risk balanced  portfolio to one described as high investment risk.
And so my view, which is wholly consistent  with this, remains that a balanced risk portfolio for Mr O 
might reasonably contain a greater percentage of high risk investments  than might  be the case, say, 
for an investor who had none of the characteristics attributed to Mr O above.  
Ive also noted  comments such as the following in an email  sent by Mr O to S4 on 4 July 2010:
Property  - if you take MP 40 the valuation  is flattered  by not including  the funding  hedge.  Sell 
the property  now and the valuation  is something  like 290. Lets  get something  that shows  value  
post swap  termination  and some  details  of swap  maturity.  If they have  hedged  the funding  profile  
these  will be deeply  underwater  for some  time.
This strikes me as being the commentary  of someone who is, if not a specialist, fairly well versed in 
investments generally   and therefore likely to understand the nature of the risks as described  for the 
investments complained of.
Ive also given further consideration to what Mr O would have understood S4 to mean  by a balanced 
risk portfolio it was creating for him. Given his general understanding of investments,  and his 
comments about his own management of aspects  of the portfolio, I think  its reasonable to assume  
that Mr O knew  what  a balanced risk portfolio might look like. 
As contained in the financial report of March 2004  prepared by S4s predecessor, Mr O was told the 
following:
At present,  your capital  fund (including  cash)  comprises 53% equities, 47% non-equities and 0% 
structured products & hedge funds. This compares to our asset allocation for a balanced investor  of 
45% equities, 35% non-equities  & structured  products and 20% hedge  funds. The non-equity element 
of your portfolio  consists largely of cash and you have no exposure to commercial  property or hedge 
funds.
We recommend that a portion of most  portfolios be invested in absolute return hedge funds as they 
have both low correlation with equity  markets and low overall  volatility, with the main objective  of 
providing consistent positive returns through both "bull"  and "bear"  markets.  We also recommend 
commercial property as an essential  part of a balanced portfolio  since  performance is relatively 
uncorrelated with equities. You may also wish to consider  structured products as a replacement  for 
bonds at this stage of the fixed interest market.
This therefore compared Mr Os existing  version of a balanced  portfolio  (and one which he has 
reconfirmed by saying  that it should  be a mix of equities and bonds) with that firms  preferred asset 
split. This was, in a slightly varied form, carried over into Mr Os relationship  with S4.
Ref: DRN9281649And as illustrated by the six different Brewin Dolphin balanced portfolios mentioned  by Mr O, they can 
feature varying  levels of high and low risk investments,  tailored  to an individuals  risk profile   which  
itself would be guided  by factors such as risk understanding  and awareness, tolerance  to risk, and 
capacity for loss.
In its annual reports, S4 consistently  described  a balanced risk category as follows, or in very similar 
formats:
A Balanced Investor  is looking  for a balance of risk and reward,  and whilst seeking higher returns 
than might be obtained from a low risk investment, recognises that this brings with it a higher level of 
risk and that the value  of their investment may fluctuate in the short term. They  would feel 
uncomfortable if the overall value of their investments were to fall significantly over a short  period 
and would  be upset to see their capital significantly eroded.
This made no mention of specific  assets which might be held, or their weightings in the overall 
portfolio. Indeed, although Mr O has in his complaint said that he would only have been willing  to 
tolerate a small percentage of high risk investments if this was balanced out by very low risk 
investments, at no point  have I seen this requirement appearing in the suitability letters or the annual 
reports. Rather, specific target allocations to achieve  a balanced profile for Mr O were  agreed. I 
therefore need to determine whether the portfolio adhered to those target allocations, and if not, to 
what extent this might have compromised its balanced nature. And I discuss that in more detail in the 
later section relating  to the asset split.
Mr O has also taken out of context my comment relating to him being  unable to form a different view 
from S4 when it had committed to its balanced risk description. This was in reference to the overall 
portfolio, rather than the individual  investment, which I said Mr O would reasonably have been entitled 
to conclude would bear a balanced risk. And I stand by that finding.
Mr O has said that the only evidence I had provided (Ill comment  later on my ability to actually 
provide evidence  rather than rely upon it) to substantiate my comments  on there  being  greater 
latitude here in the creation of a balanced  risk portfolio was the letter  he had sent to the provider of the 
property partnerships  in which he had said that the existence of the associated  loans wasnt  an 
issue or concern  for him. Mr O said that these were  S4s words rather than his own,  in an attempt to 
deflect responsibility  for the losses incurred. It was also,  Mr O said, made in the context of him 
seeking assurance that there would be no further  losses as a result of the loans.
The comment in that letter isnt in any case the only evidence upon which Ive relied on in concluding 
that Mr O was an investor for whom some latitude could be exercised  in adding high risk investments 
to an overall balanced portfolio  as Ive said above,  Mr O has at other points  indicated  acceptance of 
high risk investments  to be balanced  out by lower risk ones, and other aspects of his financial 
circumstances indicated  that he could accommodate them.  There is also the matter  of the known high 
risk investment in August  2010  which I discuss further, along with the wider implications for Mr Os 
acceptance of risk, in a later section.
But I also find the prospect of Mr O writing  something in a complaint, on the instruction of a third party, 
which didnt reflect his actual view, to be remote. And I have difficulty  in understanding  why, if he was 
seeking assurance about there being  further  losses on the loans, he would concede that the existence  
of the loans wasnt an issue for him. Im afraid  that makes little sense to me  Mr O simply had to 
acknowledge the existence of the loans to seek reassurance that no further losses would be incurred 
on them.  An admission of knowledge and acceptance of the loans, with there  being  no issues or 
concerns about  them,  wouldnt in my view have  served a complaint about  their effect on the 
investment particularly well.
I note that Mr O has also said, in the context  of the property partnerships, that although I had 
concluded that awareness of further undisclosed  risks wouldnt  have  altered his decision, he had said 
in his letter of complaint  that this wasnt the case  and that he wouldnt have invested.
But whilst I acknowledge  Mr Os position  here, I need to also take into account that this was 
commentary made whilst  bringing his complaint.  I must place greater weight on what was said and 
Ref: DRN9281649done, and what  was more likely than not to have been the case, when the advice was given. In this 
instance, I remain of the view that awareness of those additional risks wouldnt have changed Mr Os 
decision to invest  for the reasons  already given in my provisional  decisions for those particular 
investments, and those  which I set out further below.
Incorrect inclusion  of pension fund monies with the other investments
Mr O has said that, in accordance with two other  financial advisers he had spoken to, it was correct 
practice to separate pension funds from investment funds. I think  this point is in any case arguable - 
but as Ive previously  noted, Mr Os primary aim for his investment portfolio was the prospect of 
retiring early.  
And so I think the inclusion of the pension funds in the overall portfolio is reasonable  and even if Mr 
O retired before he was able to start drawing on those funds, their later availability would nevertheless  
have likely factored into the decision making around  this.
Ive also noted  his comments on the risk to which those pension funds were  exposed, but Ill address 
the extent to which they may have been  imperilled  by this investment - or the overall portfolio - later in 
this decision.
Disregard of the performance aspects of the portfolio
Mr Os point about the performance  of the portfolio is valid,  but only as a rough guide  to what  might be 
expected of a balanced  risk portfolio. And this would in any case be revealed in the valuation  of the 
portfolio from one year to the next.
By September 2010,  (the valuation date used for a later investment  complained  of)the overall return  
on the non-tax  based high risk property  schemes was recorded  as a loss of £28,636. The tax based 
high risk property schemes  retained  a residual value  after tax rebates and had produced a profit of 
£5,768. 
I appreciate that Mr Os portfolio may have fluctuated or reduced in value after September 2010,  but I 
think its worth noting here that, between the first valuation Ive assessed  in November 2005 and that 
of September  2010, Mr Os overall  portfolio value increased from approximately £1.3m to £2.05m. 
Misrepresentation of risks by S4
Mr Os view here is that Ive said that, although  S4 misrepresented the risk level of the investment, 
there should be no repercussions. But what Ive actually concluded is that Mr O was entitled  to believe 
that S4 was creating a balanced risk portfolio  for him. And if the overall  level of risk to which he was 
ultimately exposed  was incompatible with a balanced risk portfolio,  then I would agree that there 
should be repercussions  in that I would uphold the complaint.
Mr O has said that my conclusions were at odds  with those  of the ombudsman who had decided  
cases against S4s predecessor firm, in that if the firm wanted to include high risk investments in a 
balanced portfolio,  it should have made this clear to Mr O. Mr Os position, which is broadly aligned 
with this, was that, with one exception, no investment had been recommended to him as higher risk  
they had all been described  as balanced  risk and thats what  he understood them  to be.
But if I accept that S4 misrepresented  the risk of the original individual investment in MPPP58 (in this 
case in 2006), I also have  to take into account whether it would actually have made a difference if S4 
had explicitly said that the investment carried a high risk, but was nevertheless compatible with the 
balanced risk portfolio.  I would note here that, although I acknowledge that Mr O maintains he 
considered all of his investments to bear a balanced risk rating,  of the seven investments which are 
the subject of these  complaints, there was only one instance where  the investment itself was 
represented as suitable for a balanced risk profile,  without the accompanying statement that it was 
suitable as part of the portfolio being  built for him.
In thinking about whether an explicit high risk categorisation  in the suitability letter  would have made a 
difference here, Ive given careful consideration to what Mr O has said about the one investment  
Ref: DRN9281649which was described  as exactly that and recommended to him in August 2010. This,  I think,  is a 
reliable indicator of the attitude  which Mr O might have adopted  for other  investments. And hes said 
that his attitude  to investment risk was the same at this point as it had been since the start of his 
relationship with S4.
Mr O has said that this recommendation  in August 2010 caused  him to think carefully  about  the 
investment and the overall portfolio. And to quote from his letter of 12 June  2017  in response to the 
adjudicators view, he said the following:
If S4 were providing a recommendation  to me of anything  other  than Balanced I would have expected  
them to make it clear on the Suitability Letter. There was only one occasion where they deemed it 
necessary/appropriate to do. This was in August 2010. It was very clear on this occasion and it made 
me consider the investment in a very different light. I only entered into the investment  on the basis 
that my entire portfolio was deemed  appropriate for a Balanced Risk Profile.  (my emphasis)
By this, Mr O cannot have  meant that he considered  all of the investments to be balanced risk  it had 
just been made clear  to him that at least one would be high risk in nature. The logical interpretation 
here is that Mr O knew that there might be one or more high risk investments in his portfolio, but he 
was willing  to accept  this if the portfolio as a whole was balanced risk. And not just at that point  to 
reiterate, Mr O has emphatically said that his attitude to risk was still balanced,  as he has also said it 
was throughout  the relationship with S4.
The risks of that particular  investment were significant, as set out in the suitability report dated 5 
August 2010.  It was in fact described  as a highly speculative investment, with very much  a binary 
outcome  either significant gains, or a total loss, and within  a relatively  short period of time given the 
nature of the investment  - albeit S4 said that the latter could be used to recover  a proportion of the 
investment sum under cessation of trade rules for close  companies if Mr O had paid sufficient tax in 
the previous and current tax years. There was also reference  in the suitability report  to an in depth 
discussion about the risks, and Mr O being  comfortable with these.
I appreciate that it might  be Mr Os position that a series of investments described by S4 as being  high 
risk, rather  than one in isolation,  would have given him greater pause for thought and caused  him to 
challenge the nature of the portfolio  being created by S4. But these  investments  didnt  occur  at the 
same time  they were spread over a period  of six years. And with the generally repeated  assurance  
that they nevertheless complimented a balanced  risk portfolio,  I think  Mr O would have  accepted this, 
as he did with the explicitly high risk Enigma  investment in August 2010.
Furthermore, by July 2010,  Mr O would  have been  unambiguously aware that a particular high risk 
associated with two property schemes had materialised and necessitated  a further  injection  of funds.
And so Ive also thought carefully  about  what the investment in August 2010,  which  Mr O has himself  
highlighted was described as being high risk, might  mean in terms of his willingness to accept high 
risk investments generally in a balanced  risk portfolio, and an acceptance that the proportion  of those 
higher risk assets  might place him at the higher risk end of a range of potential  balanced  portfolios.
As background here,  Mr O has said that, by the time of this cash call for MPPP58 in July 2010, he had 
invested approximately £1.8m in high risk investments, of which  £473,000  was invested in property.  
And Mr O has said that this was mitigated by £23,433 of fixed  income investments. This has 
contributed to Mr Os conclusion that the portfolio wasnt appropriate for a balanced risk investor. I 
disagree with the valuation  of the high risk investments, for reasons Ive already set out and which Ill 
address further  later on. But this was nevertheless  Mr Os view of matters.
But by July 2010, there had also been another cash  call on a different property  partnership  (called 
MPPP62) in September 2009, in addition to the loan to value covenant  breach  which  resulted in the 
cash call for MPPP58.
There are a couple of important points to consider here. The first is that, by July 2010 at the latest, as 
Ive said above,  Mr O can have been  under no illusions as to the risks to his capital posed by the 
property partnership investments. Even if, as is argued by Mr O, he was unaware  that they carried a 
Ref: DRN9281649higher than balanced risk rating  when  originally recommended  to him, there was the very real 
prospect (rather than future possibility)  of a total loss of capital without the injection of further funds   
along with the possibility  that this would need  to be repeated in the future. The previously  undisclosed 
risk of break  costs from a swap contract which might  arise as a result of a loan to value covenant 
breach, and ensuing forced sale, knowledge  of which Mr O has said would unequivocally have 
changed his view on this investment  in his own words, he would  not have touched these 
investments  - had been realised.
And according to Mr O, a significant percentage of his portfolio had by this time been invested  in 
similar types of property  schemes (six in MPPP schemes alone). 
Yet Mr O was still prepared to invest approximately £25,000, with an additional geared loan of around 
£75,000, in a further, unambiguously high risk, product recommended  to him by S4 one month later.
My view is that it might reasonably be expected  that, if Mr O considered either  that all of his 
investments carried a balanced risk rating,  or that a very small percentage of his portfolio held in high 
risk investments was balanced out by other  very low risk investments, given the risks he must by then 
have appreciated  were  posed by the MPPP investments alone, he would at the very least by that point  
have challenged  the proposed addition of a further £25,000 high risk investment  along with the 
description of the previous MPPP investments individually as being suited to a balanced  risk investor. 
But Ive seen no evidence  that this happened.
In fact, email  correspondence  in June 2010 between Mr O and S4 relating to several of his existing 
investments could reasonably be described  as Mr O expressing  frustration  at the performance of his 
investments, but no commentary as to whether  the risks posed  by them were inappropriate for him.
Mr Os recorded risk rating had, by September 2010, increased  from balanced to balanced 
aggressive, which might  reasonably  imply a willingness to increase further  the amount of high risk 
investments held. But Mr O has disputed this  he has in fact taken  exception  to the suggestion that 
he has ever been anything other than a balanced risk investor,  including at the point when he made 
the further high risk investment in August 2010.
I think the August  2010 investment tells me three  things: firstly that, as I said in the provisional  
decision, Mr O cannot have believed all of his investments  to have carried a balanced  risk rating; 
secondly, that he was prepared for there to be higher risk investments (not restricted  to that 
recommended in August 2010) in his portfolio; and thirdly, given the proportion of MPPP investments 
by the time of the further high risk investment in August  2010,  that he was prepared  for high risk 
investments to represent a significant  percentage of a balanced portfolio  which in my view further 
endorses the conclusion that some latitude  could be applied  in the creation of that portfolio for Mr O.
And I must also question  as to why Mr O would have reacted any differently to being  told at other 
times that the proposed  investment was high risk, but nevertheless formed part of the overall 
balanced risk portfolio.  If he was prepared to accept  the reassurance that it did, as was the case in 
August 2010,  it seems  likely to me that he would still have decided  to invest on other occasions  
including this one - as well. 
Mr O has also challenged  my comment about his acceptance of property investments to balance out 
more volatile aspects  of his portfolio, saying that these werent his own comments, but rather  taken 
from the suitability  letters.
But, again, there are a few issues here.  The first is that Id query as to why, if the commentary  
appeared in suitability letters but wasnt true, Mr O didnt challenge this at the time.  And when he was 
repeating those comments in the letter of complaint, I also note that Mr O didnt say that this notion 
wasnt acceptable to him and that all investments must be balanced in nature. 
But perhaps most compelling of all in relation to my view of Mr Os acceptance of high risk 
investments in his portfolio is the presence of instances where Mr O has indicated  that he would be 
prepared to accept  this  such as the example above from August 2010.
I think it could reasonably be argued  that the above  commentary lends itself well to the conclusion that 
Mr O must have  been aware,  at the very latest  by July 2010,  that his balanced portfolio contained  
Ref: DRN9281649many high risk investments  but made  no complaint on that basis,  and was in fact prepared  to invest  
in further high risk schemes such as that in August 2010. 
I nevertheless think its still plausible that Mr O believed that S4 was creating a balanced portfolio for 
him, albeit  tailored according to targeted  percentages of assets.  And I think  that S4, having committed  
to creating this, was dutybound to do so.
What I conclude from the above is, as Ive set out elsewhere, that Mr O was an individual who was 
prepared to accept  some high risk investments  in his portfolio, and would most  likely have been 
aware, by July 2010 at the latest,  that some  of those which  had been  described by S4 as being 
balanced risk, such as the MPPPs, in fact carried considerably  higher  risks.  And he accepted  this.
So, as with the provisional decision,  I maintain that, in order to determine whether this investment was 
suitable for Mr O, I need to consider  whether  the overall portfolio, including this investment, was 
suitable for him  not whether each  investment  was either balanced risk in nature, or suitable in 
isolation.
The ombudsman does  not comply with the Judicial Review
Mr O has rejected my finding  that, appreciating the risks involved in the investment, he would have 
been aware that it carried a higher than balanced  risk rating. And he has quoted  from the statement 
made by the judge when giving permission to seek Judicial  Review  (see my previous comments on 
this  this was not a Judicial Review finding) that said, in the absence  of specific  evidence for this, the 
finding was unarguably unlawful. 
I think Mr O meant to say here that it was arguably unlawful.  But I dont think this matters, as there is 
in any case specific evidence I have  relied upon here in concluding that Mr O would have appreciated 
that the investment bore a higher than balanced  risk rating. Much of that reasoning is contained within  
my provisional decision, and centres around the detail provided to Mr O of the risks themselves and 
Mr Os capacity to understand the nature and ramifications of those risks involved.  
For example, the MPPP58 cash call investment risks, as set out in my provisional decision, were  as 
follows:
If the cash  call wasn't covered, the lender would likely  require that the properties be sold,  which,  
S4 said, would likely  lead to the total loss of the original  capital.
Even  if the cash call was covered, property values may drop further,  leading  to a request  for 
additional capital to maintain the lending arrangement.
If the property was worth  less than expected, the value of the original and any additional  
investments may reduce and the expected returns may reduce to zero.
If the property tenant were to default on the rent, the property partnership may not be able to 
fund the bank loan and the value could reduce to zero.
My view is that these features clearly set the investment apart from more mainstream type 
investments  and ones  with which Mr O would have  been familiar through what  he has described as 
his own management  of his share and equities  portfolio,  which formed the mainstay of his portfolio 
prior to the involvement of both S4 and the preceding advisory  firm.
Perhaps the most notable risks were  those relating to the possibility of Mr O losing the entirety of his 
investment, due to properties being sold if the cash call wasnt  covered (which  was also beyond Mr 
Os individual control if he was unable to cover  other  members liabilities), or the tenant defaulting on 
the rent. And if property  prices fell further,  this would lead to a further cash call.
As with the general features of the investment,  I would  suggest that these types of risk, with no FSCS 
investment protection in place, would  be incompatible with a balanced  risk rating.
Furthermore, by this point, these  risks werent  simply possibilities  at least one of them had 
materialised, hence the need  for further investment.
Ref: DRN9281649And I think Mr O would have been aware  of that. As Ive said above, in terms of Mr Os capacity to 
understand the investment and the associated risks,  Mr O has said that he also managed his own 
share and equity portfolio. I think its therefore  likely that he had sufficient  financial  awareness to 
understand the description of the investment  and that it was quite different from the features and 
risks associated with an investment which could in itself be described as balanced, or individually 
suiting a balanced risk profile.
But, importantly, for the reasons given in the preceding section, even if a different interpretation could 
be applied  here,  and S4 needed to have been  specific about the higher risk rating  borne  by the 
investment for Mr O to appreciate this, I think its likely that Mr O would nevertheless have proceeded 
 with the reassurance that it formed part of an overall balanced risk portfolio.
S4s lack of compliance  with the principles of the Financial Conduct  Authority
Mr O has said that S4 failed to adhere  to its regulatory obligations on a number of counts. Ill address 
them in turn.
Firstly, Mr O has said that, as S4 failed to disclose a number of key risks associated with certain  
property partnerships, it failed to act with integrity. But I dont  think  that allegation  can stand here. 
Even if Mr O hadnt been aware of all of the risks associated with MPPP58 when he originally 
invested, I think its reasonable  to conclude that, by the time of this cash  call, Mr O was aware of the 
relevant risks. 
Mr O then argued that, as S4 had categorised  the investment as being suitable  for a balanced risk 
profile, it had failed to display  skill, care and diligence. Im inclined to agree with Mr O here.  I dont 
think the investment  could, in isolation, be said to carry a balanced  attitude  risk. But I would also refer 
to all other commentary Ive made about why the risk of the investment shouldnt  be considered in 
isolation.
Ive thought about Mr Os view that, due to the inaccuracies of its information  system, it couldnt have 
properly managed his exposure to investment risk. I think the omissions  in the valuations  brought  to 
my attention by Mr O were quite minor, and at least two of the three were reasonable given the 
proximity of the investments to the date of the valuation. I dont therefore agree that S4 was unable to 
manage his exposure  to investment risk on this basis.
Mr O has also said that conflicts of interest  were created in a number of situations. But the situation  to 
which I think Mr O is referring has in any case  been  deemed to be one where  no advice was given by 
S4. And even  if it were the case that a conflict of interest had arisen in other situations, I dont think it 
impacts on my assessment  of this particular investment,  where no such conflict  appears to have been 
present. 
Mr O concluded his opinion on these matters by saying that the most serious breaches had been in 
S4s lack of due regard  to his information needs and communication  of that information  he thought  it 
had been misleading. He also said hed been unable to rely on S4s judgement  in giving suitable 
recommendations.
As Ive previously said, I dont think S4s description of the investment as being  suitable for a balanced 
profile, in isolation,  was plausible. But this failure wouldnt mean that a complaint should automatically 
be upheld, if other conditions are present which serve to mitigate  that failing.
And for the reasons given, this is my view here. The failure to accurately describe the risk rating of the 
investment was mitigated by: Mr Os likely appreciation  that it represented a higher than balanced risk; 
and the likelihood that, even if it had been described as a high risk investment,  Mr O would have in 
any case invested on the basis of the reassurance that it nevertheless formed  part of an overall 
balanced risk portfolio   as demonstrated by the investment  in August 2010.
An independent view
Ref: DRN9281649Mr O has sought a third party opinion from an IFA on the portfolio. Notably, that IFA has said that a 
balanced portfolio can consist of low, medium and high risk investments, so long as the higher risk 
ones were balanced out by those bearing low risk.
My comment  here would be that this is entirely  consistent  with my own view,  in that it was entirely 
possible for Mr Os portfolio to comprise of a range of differently risk rated investments, rather than 
there being a selection of, for example, only medium  risk investments.
The further view expressed  by the IFA has been  that Mr Os portfolio was very high risk in nature and 
that there  had been a failure  to balance out the higher risk investments with lower  risk ones. Tax 
rebates had been reinvested into further  non-approved tax schemes, thereby exacerbating the risks.
But if Mr O received tax rebates in cash which were then reinvested,  this would be reflected in the 
overall asset split, and risk rating, of the portfolio. And furthermore, the risks of these schemes  were  
known to Mr O, and likely understood. Additionally, insofar as its possible to have a typical balanced 
risk portfolio  - and Id refer to my comments above  relating  to the different  guises  this might take - I 
dont think that this would fit the bill of a typical medium risk balanced  portfolio, to which  I suspect Mr 
Os IFA may be referring. For example, as previously noted, Mr O had agreed  that 30% would be 
invested in property, including commercial property  schemes, the risks of which  had been (with  
notable exceptions which are covered  in those complaints) clearly set out. The issue  I must  decide is 
whether the proportion of these types of investments adhered  to the agreed  asset  allocations  - and 
was suitable in an overall balanced portfolio structure for Mr O.
The asset split within the portfolio
Mr O has disagreed with my analysis of the asset  split within the valuation.  Ive therefore reassessed  
the valuation and its constituent parts, with further  input where necessary from S4. Im conscious  of 
the fact that Mr O may still disagree with the methodology of the valuation, for some of the reasons 
Ive already mentioned above,  but also on issues such as the inclusion of the pension  assets and 
assets earmarked  for his children. But I remain of the view that my conclusions  in those matters are 
reasonable.
But there may also remain disagreement  over the precise value of some  of the investments cited  
below, and its possible, despite  my best efforts to attribute as accurate a figure  as possible to them, 
as well as the resulting  percentages,  that there may yet be discrepancies  which  either party might be 
able to identify.  But Im nevertheless confident that these would not be so great, even  if amounting to 
a few percent  difference in the proportions of the relevant asset classes,  as to undermine my overall 
conclusions.
Ive firstly  thought carefully about the inclusion of the bare trusts  and unit trust savings plans put in 
place for the children. Mr O has said that these  shouldnt  have  been  included in the portfolio, but Im 
afraid Im inclined to disagree. Notwithstanding  that the value of at least the unit trusts could be 
realised if the need arose, I think the portfolio was designed to meet the overall  family  objectives, 
hence my comment in the provisional decision about  this being part of a life plan for Mr O and his 
family. The primary goal for Mr O was early  retirement, hence the inclusion also of the pension  funds. 
But this could only realistically be achieved if he felt he had sufficient provision in place for his 
children, be that for funding further  education  or giving  them  a good  financial start in adult life. 
So I dont  think that the inclusion of both of these sets of investments in the portfolio valuation is 
unreasonable. But even if a different interpretation could reasonably be applied  here,  their exclusion 
wouldnt make  a significant difference to the portfolio valuation.
With regard to the valuation of the Enigma investment,  Mr O has said that this was shown  in the 
valuation as representing £99,484,  when  only £24,871 had been  invested. I think Mr O is right here  
and for consistency  with other valuations where  the gearing through loans hasnt been included in the 
valuation, my view is that lower amounts should be used. This reduces the overall valuation to 
£2.05m, but the MPPP58 cash call still represented only 0.4% of Mr Os overall portfolio, as set out in 
the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN9281649Mr O has said that the percentage of tax based non-property schemes  was by this time 60% 
(£912,039), property  schemes (tax and non-tax based) was 31.1%% (£473,070), and other high risk 
investments accounted  for 28.9% (£440,000) of the portfolio.
This isnt right though. And the error is quite clear to see when the overall percentage of these 
investments, according to Mr O, amounts to 120%  of the portfolio valuation. Components of a portfolio 
valuation cannot  cumulatively exceed 100%. As Ive commented on earlier in this decision,  Mr O has, 
in his calculation,  included all of the tax based  non-property schemes which  by that time had produced 
tax rebates to varying degrees  and therefore no longer  retained  a value for the purposes of the 
valuation report.   
Excluding the VCTs, there were no tax based non-property investments within  the valuation by this 
point. The Enigma investment was included  in the certificated holdings section. Reducing  the value 
of the Enigma investment to £24,871 means that, as at the September  2010 valuation, tax based non-
property investments amounted to the value of the VCTs  - £108,000.  This therefore represented 5% 
of the portfolio value.
Mr O has said that there were further non-tax based  investments within  the portfolio by this stage 
which should also be categorised as high risk. But again, on some of these  Mr O has used  the initial 
investment rather than the actual values. For example, Matrix ABL had a value of £29,356, rather than 
the investment  amount quoted by Mr O of £50,000.  The Arch Cru investment of £50,000 had been 
sold by September  2010, and so didnt form part of the valuation.  The MP Waste  to Energy 
investments retained  their overall  value  of £100,000  (£30,000  of this invested in the pension).  The 
Climate Finance investment had a value  of £25,000 and the CoFunds Unit Trusts were valued at 
£129,275 rather  than the initial investment amount of £215,000 quoted by Mr O.
By this time, the CoFunds unit trust no longer  contained investment in the Legal & General Cash Fund 
or the Apollo Balanced Growth Fund  as it did at outset  although a small amount  remained in the 
Investec Cautious  Managed Fund.  So I think by this point the CoFunds unit trust could arguably  be 
said to represent  a high risk investment.
And so the further non-tax based high risk investments represented  a total of £258,631 within the 
portfolio, or 13%.
The amount  in the valuation represented by high risk (so excluding  property fund investment) property 
(tax and non-tax based)  was £321,000, (including £106,000 in the pensions), or 16%.  Total property 
exposure, including property funds,  was £421,914, or 21% of the total portfolio. I should point out here 
that, in his response to my provisional decision,  Mr O counted MP Waste to Energy twice,  once  in the 
Property category  and then again in the other high risk investments category.
So the total amount represented by high risk investments was by this point approximately £688,000,  
or 34%. 
For the reasons  already given, I dont  think its appropriate to exclude  the pension  assets,  but this 
would in any case only serve to slightly increase that percentage (and as set out above, £106,000 of 
the property investments were held within the pension).
Mr O has said that the amount of £353,000 recorded as cash  in the valuation, within the mortgage 
offset account, should be deducted. But if this was cash held in an account to offset  the interest 
payable on a mortgage, which was in any case more than adequately covered by the value of the 
property, my view is that this should properly be considered as a cash  asset. 
Its also Mr Os position  that the childrens  cash account, amounting to £48,109, didnt exist. So Ive 
put this to S4 and asked  for its comments.  Its said that it believes the childrens cash account was 
first disclosed to it in 2007, but that as it was a non-managed asset it wasnt initially included  in 
portfolio valuations. But it was later included in the valuations, at some point in 2009, at Mr Os 
request. S4 also has no record  of Mr O saying that it was incorrect  or inaccurate,  until it was asked to 
remove it in November 2010.
Ref: DRN9281649Its difficult to know  for certain  whether the childrens cash account  existed, and, if so, whether the 
value attributed  to it was accurate. But if it didnt, even for a brief time, it seems  to me an oddly 
specific inclusion in a valuation for S4 to have  simply  manufactured,  and the amount wasnt  so 
significant, against the wider portfolio value, to artificially bolster the cash  position,  if indeed  this was in 
any sense S4s intention  at that time.  So I havent removed it from the overall portfolio, but even if I 
did, as it represented  around 2% of the portfolio I dont think this would make a significant difference 
to the outcome.    
But I also dont in any case  consider that cash, in its simplest deposit  form, would constitute  a 
significant part of a balanced  investment portfolio. And this also doesnt include any cash which Mr O 
might have held outside  of the portfolio.
Mr O has said that just £23,433 was held in fixed income funds. In arriving at this figure, Mr O has 
removed Matrix ABL and this MPPP58 cash call investment from the amount of £68,551.  This wasnt 
the total amount of fixed income in the portfolio,  however   fixed income amounting to a further 
£91,852 was held in other areas,  according to the valuation,  in all likelihood  holdings in bond  funds.
But I accept that, even if they provided a fixed income, both Matrix ABL and this MPPP58 cash  call 
could reasonably be described  as high risk investments,  so if I add those to the overall  percentage of 
high risk holdings,  this produces  a figure  of approximately £725,000, or 35%.
Mr O has said that, overall, 120% of the portfolio,  or £1.825m, was held in high risk investments. For 
the reasons given above, I disagree with Mr Os assessment of the proportion  of high risk funds held  
the amount of the portfolio valuation represented by high risk investments was around £725,000, or 
35% - but this does in any case somewhat disregard the remainder of Mr Os portfolio. With the 
accurate value of high risk investments, the remainder in the portfolio amounted  to approximately  
£1.3m. And this was held in a number  of more mainstream investments which might reasonably fit the 
bill of inclusion in a balanced risk portfolio.
The IFA from whom  Mr O has sought a second opinion said that the high risk investments schemes 
excluded other high risk investments in the remainder of the portfolio. But Ive considered the actual 
asset split (on the basis of the £2.13m valuation in September 2010), which,  other  than the 
amendments set out above, Ive no reason to believe was incorrect.  This was recorded as follows:
Absolute Return £182,879 7.1%
Asia Pacific/Japan  Equity £26,374 1.0%
Cash £44,951 1.7%
European Equity £42,220 1.6%
Fixed Interest £68,551 2.7%
Global Equity £2,043 0.1%
Rest of World Equity £11,184 0.4%
Property £348,009 13.5%
Specialist Equity £42,000 1.6%
UK Equity £91,282 3.5%
US Equity £39,942 1.5%
Asset Allocation Funds £187,607 7.3%
Private Equity & Finance £100,000 3.9%
Tax Based Property - EZTs £27,003 1.0%
Tax Based Equity - VCT & EIS £108,133 4.2%
Direct Equity Holdings £387,651 15.0%
Non-Managed Cash & Bonds £401,109 15.5%
Non-Managed Funds £18,804 0.7%
(Main Residence) (£450,000) (17.4%)
Total value £2,129,743
In my provisional decision,  I set out my understanding of the ratio between  the main asset classes as 
being - for the whole portfolio - as follows: 
Ref: DRN9281649Absolute Return 11%
Cash/Fixed Interest/Bonds 25%
Equities 33%
Property 20%
Private Equity/Finance/VCTs/Tax Schemes 11%
Amendments have  needed to be made to the valuation, as set out above. But I also consider it useful 
to refer to the breakdown used by S4 in its valuation, which excludes tax based schemes. 
Notwithstanding the above amendments, Ive no reason to doubt that the further breakdown  of the 
non-tax based  portfolio below, as set out in the September  2010  valuation, was broadly correct.  
Absolute Return £229,780 19.4% Target 20%
Fixed Interest £160,403 13.5% Target 15%
Equity £301,948 25.4% Target 30%
Property £394,911 33.3% Target 25%
Private Equity & Finance £100,000    8.4% Target 10%
The issue  of target  percentages is somewhat complicated by the removal  of tax based schemes from 
that section. This would imply  that there was no specific target in mind for the amount which  could be 
held in such schemes, and this is consistent with S4s view that it shouldnt be considered as a part of 
an investment portfolio.  But my view is that, where  they retain a value, they should be included. This is 
aligned with what Ive said above  relating to how these schemes should be represented for valuation 
purposes. But it remains the case  that no targets  were seemingly allocated to tax based schemes. 
S4 was nevertheless tasked with creating a balanced risk portfolio for Mr O, and so I need to 
determine whether  Mr Os overall  exposure to high risk investments, and the balancing  effect of lower 
risk investments, was compatible with this. Ive revisited this matter on the basis of the above 
amendments. And I consider a reasonable methodology for determining this would be to assess  any 
breaches in the non-tax based  investments  target, combined with my own view as to whether  that 
breach, and the nature of that breach (for example, was it in mainstream  funds which might not be 
categorised as high risk), in conjunction  with the amount of other high risk tax based investments held, 
and all the other factors at play here which Ive set out above, pushed the portfolio beyond the realms 
of what could reasonably be described as a balanced risk portfolio.  And specifically, given what Ive 
said above about the type of latitude which might reasonably be employed in the creation  of a 
balanced risk portfolio,  taking account of factors such as risk awareness  and capacity  for loss - a 
balanced risk portfolio  for Mr O. 
So Ive thought carefully about this. In the targeted section above,  the amount held in property was 
33.3%. This comfortably  exceeded the target  of 25%. This was as a percentage of the portfolio 
excluding tax based investments. Of the whole  portfolio, property represented  21%, and excluding 
property funds, high risk property investment stood at 16%.
So Ive also given  further consideration as to whether this percentage of all types  of property, 
breaching as it did the target set for that asset class, and combined with the amounts of high risk 
investments held in various tax and non-tax based  schemes, including the MPPP58  cash call, resulted 
in a portfolio which  presented too much risk for Mr O  and therefore rendered  the recommendation to 
invest in the MPPP58 cash call unsuitable.
The cash  call on MPPP58 was a further investment in property,  thereby contributing to the breach of 
that target  percentage. As a high risk investment, it increased Mr Os overall  exposure to this 
category. And the overall percentage of high risk investments  against  the whole portfolio, including tax 
and non-tax based schemes, was by this time 35%.  
The percentage of equities, against  the whole portfolio, was 15%. Therefore, as a proportion of the 
whole portfolio, Mr O held approximately 35% in high risk schemes,  15% in equities,  and 50% in other  
investments, including those representing lower risk.
Ref: DRN9281649S4 had been tasked, by its own admission, with reducing volatility  and risk in Mr Os portfolio. It 
viewed the existing assets held by Mr O when the relationship  began, notably the significant 
proportion of equities in the portfolio, as being the higher risk and more  volatile feature of his holding.
It sought to balance this out  and diversify  the portfolio - by investing in commercial  property and 
other types of assets. And I dont think the position  that property investments are less volatile than 
equities is unreasonable. Property prices tend to be cyclical in nature, and tend to decline in line with 
general economic  downturns, whereas equities tend to react to market  conditions, and fluctuate more  
frequently, in a more immediate sense. 
As indicated  in comments made by S4 in previous financial  reports,  it had been  seemingly left to Mr O 
to manage his exposure to equities, certainly  those held in ISAs and unit trusts,  and he was aware 
that, to create the balanced  portfolio envisaged by S4, the amount of equities  would  need  to reduce, 
to be balanced  out by an increasing level of investment  in other asset  classes, such as commercial 
property. And this is what had happened  since 2005. The proportion of equities held as a percentage 
of the whole portfolio had reduced from 57% in 2005  to 15% in 2010. 
To the extent that the overall risk was appropriately managed, other  investments provided  balance to 
the high risk investments, with the proportion of equities having reduced over time.  So although the 
overall percentage of high risk investments stood  at 35% of the whole portfolio, due to a reduction  in 
the amount of equities held, this was balanced out by a greater amount of other  investments, including 
those which  would be considered lower risk.
Summary
There was a balance  of investments here.  I appreciate  that Mr O may still consider that this was 
skewed too heavily in favour of high risk investments, and I remain  of the view that S4s description  of 
the nature  of the MPPP58  investment omitted  a key risk. For the reasons given in this and my 
provisional decision, my view is that the inclusion of the additional risk wouldnt have changed  Mr Os 
decision to proceed.  But in any case, my overall  view on both the need to take account of the 
investments place in Mr Os portfolio, along  with the above  proportions of higher  risk investments 
within the overall portfolio, remains the same  as that set out in my provisional decision.  
On a fair and reasonable analysis of the facts,  and in the context of all of my previous comments 
about Mr Os understanding  of the products features, his likely awareness that his investments  bore a 
range of risks, his tolerance to high risk investments as a proportion of his overall portfolio, capacity 
for loss, and the latitude which might reasonably be applied to the creation of a balanced portfolio on 
the basis of all of these factors, I think that 35% invested in high risk schemes, and in the context  of 
other investments held,  was an amount which might reasonably be considered  suitable for a balanced 
portfolio for Mr O.
In closing, as Ive alluded to above, Ive noted  with some dismay  some of the language and 
terminology used by Mr O in response  to my provisional decision. Mr O has, at various points said that 
Ive manipulated  the complaint, speculated, attempted to isolate investments, chosen to ignore, failed 
to consider, condoned and justified the business actions and provided evidence to support my 
findings.
What concerns me about  this is less the possibility that this might  undermine what  I consider to have 
been a fair, impartial and thorough assessment of the facts, but more that Mr O might himself have 
the impression  that there  has been some  kind of bias towards  the business here  and that he may 
consider that he has been unfairly treated.
As a reminder, we are a free and impartial service,  with no agenda,  bias or vested interest in making 
findings which favour either party  to a complaint. Its perhaps inevitable that the losing  party may feel 
dissatisfied with the outcome, and I appreciate that Mr O may well be frustrated with the length of time 
its taken to decide these cases - for which I apologise, but with the caveat that they have undoubtedly  
been quite complex  in nature and have required some in depth investigation and consideration. 
But I would seek to reassure Mr O that none of the above allegations made about my findings apply 
here. And as a reminder,  Mr O is entitled  to reject my findings.
Ref: DRN9281649my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my 
decision before  16 January  2021.
Philip Miller
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281649  COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr O has complained about  advice he received from S4 Financial Ltd to invest in the Merchant 
Place Property Partnership No.58 (MPPP 58) in July 2010. This followed a cash  call for further 
investment, which had arisen  due to fall in the propertys  value and a consequential breach of the 
loan to value covenant.
In particular, Mr O has said that, in recommending  the investment, S4 failed to create the balanced 
risk portfolio that was agreed at the outset. And that this has led to substantial  losses within his 
portfolio.
background
Upon the recommendation of S4, Mr O originally invested  in MPPP 58 in July 2006.  This was a 
£38,000 investment into car showroom sites, which  was secured by investor equity and a limited 
recourse loan.  Mr Os investment was geared by a loan of £114,000, and his initial stake was to 
be funded from pension funds which were being transferred to his self invested personal pension 
(SIPP).
A return on equity of 171% would be generated, equivalent to a compound annual  rate of return of 
11.3%, if the following applied:
the property  was held for five years,
it was sold at an exit yield of 4.5% pa
the interest cost was fixed at 6.1% pa
rentals  increased by the retail price index  (2.3%)
In response to a cash call made  in July 2010, S4 issued a letter  which set out that, due to a change  in 
the market value of the commercial property, the loan to value covenant had been breached  with the 
lender. The properties  were at that point worth less than the loans which  were taken  out to support 
their purchase  in August 2006.
As the loan funding was of a limited recourse  nature, investors had the option of ending their 
participation with no f o the absolute loss of all the
capital originally invested.
The option recommended by S4 was that investors, including Mr O, provide additional equity which 
would support  the loan to value analysis.  My understanding is that Mr O invested a further £7,584 into 
the scheme.
S4 said that, whilst there were no guarantees that the property price wouldnt fall further, it 
considered this unlikely as a forthcoming rent review would enhance  the value   and so reduce the 
loan to value ratio below 100%.
S4 informed  Mr O that hed be receiving notification from a third party advising  of the cash  call  this 
would represent approximately 20% of the original investment. The return on this further investment 
would be set at 18% pa, and it would take priority  over the returns  on the initial investment amount, 
but would be secondary to the interest payable  to the lender.
In addition to the recommendation  to support  the cash call, S4 advised  Mr O to offer to help cover 
any shortfall incurred by a lack of funding from other partners and accept  the accelerated rate of 
interest on the additional capital if required.
S4 set out the risks of the further investment as follows:
If the cash  call wasnt  covered, the lender would  likely require that the properties be sold, 
which, S4 said,  would  likely lead to the total loss of the original capital.
Even if the cash call was covered, property values may drop further, leading to a 
request for additional capital to maintain the lending  arrangement.
If the property was worth  less than expected, the value of the original and any additional 
investments may reduce  and the expected returns may reduce to zero.
Ref: DRN9281649If the property tenant were to default on the rent, the property partnership  may not be able to 
fund the bank loan and the value could  reduce to zero.
S4 asked Mr O to complete a High Net Worth (HNW) declaration, which he signed  on 26 May 2010.
The complaint
Mr O complained to S4 in September 2013. The following is a summary of Mr Os 
submissions to S4 and then to this service:
His risk profile was that of a balanced  risk investor. Every recommendation  given by S4 clearly 
stated that it was suited to this. He would  have  tolerated high risk ventures  for a very small 
percentage of his portfolio, but only if they were offset  by lower  risk investments.
S4 had suggested that hed known that certain investments, including  this one, were  speculative 
in nature,  but he didnt know  this  and S4 defined them  as being suited  to a balanced risk 
profile.
Being categorised  as a high net worth  (HNW)  investor only meant  that he had investible assets 
of £250,000 or more  not that he had any understanding  of the investments recommended by 
S4.
He didnt have a high tolerance for investment  loss  he had commitments to fund and was 
seeking early retirement.
The total invested through S4, including this scheme, was in the region of £2m.  Outstanding 
losses and liabilities amounted to approximately £1.3m. Over the same period of time, a 
balanced portfolio  should have grown  by about 50%.
His pension funds had also been reduced by about a third.
Hed been  advised to invest in inappropriate high risk investments, and he had no idea where 
he stood financially. This was having a significant impact  on him and his family.
Most of the recommended investments outside of his pension funds, including  this one, 
appeared to be based upon tax mitigation advice   for example  commercial property, enterprise  
trust zones, and venture capital trusts.
The investments designed to mitigate tax had been portrayed as being  straightforward, but 
were in fact opaque  and misleading, resulting in his tax affairs being impossible to understand.
He didnt need the cash from the tax rebates  it was at the advisers initiation,  and liabilities had 
been created  with no preservation  of capital or steady growth.  Rather, hed sustained  significant  
losses.
Hed also become aware that the property schemes werent appropriate for a balanced risk 
profile either,  due to the leverage, close ended nature, loan to value  covenant issues,  penalties  
and swaps.
S4s response  to the complaint
The below is a summary of S4s response to Mr O and its submissions to this service. It includes 
general commentary on the relationship between Mr O and S4, but also specifics relating  to the 
MPPP 58 investment:
Mr O became  a client of S4 Financial in September 2004   he had been one of 20 
founding shareholders in the company.
Before this, Mr O had been a client of a specialist  tax planning and portfolio  management firm, 
during which  time hed become aware of tax planning strategies which  could be employed to 
defer income  tax he was paying. S4 understood that it was during  this period that Mr O first 
became aware  of tax planning initiatives such as Enterprise Zone Trusts and film partnerships.
As a result, whilst a client  of that firm, Mr O entered into two sale and leaseback  film 
partnerships and a property partnership.
Mr O was certified  as a HNW individual by the previous firm  this meant he was exempt from 
the prohibition  on unregulated promotions, and by signing  the HNW certificate, he confirmed he 
was willing  to accept unregulated  investment  promotions. Mr O signed  several  of these  
certificates over the years.
Mr O was keen to ensure that his income was dealt with in a tax efficient manner and the 
investment planning was geared toward this.
Mr O understood the nature of the schemes he participated in and he was keen to continue  
with them  as a client of S4. And by the time he became a client, hed received tax rebates 
amounting to some  £300,000.
Ref: DRN9281649S4 considered  Mr O to be a financially astute and sophisticated individual. He was an active  investor, 
often offering commentary on the information and updates  which S4 provided.
Mr Os financial  position meant that he was in a position  to make investments and absorb 
any losses from them   his tolerance to loss was high.
S4 provided Mr O with clear and detailed  information about  the investments  through 
suitability reports and information  memoranda, which disclosed the associated  risks.
Mr (and Mrs) O intended  to retire  at age 55. The objective was to maximise  tax 
efficiency through  the use of ISAs and other tax efficient schemes.
In advance of annual reviews, S4 asked Mr (and Mrs) O to complete  annual review 
questionnaires which set out their personal and financial objectives   this enabled S4 to update 
the position. S4 was unable to find a record of Mr (or Mrs) O indicating a change  of approach  or 
in their capacity  for loss.
Mr (and Mrs) Os portfolio had increased in value  over the period in which  theyd been clients 
of S4  this included tax refunds and credits which enabled  the offsetting of income  tax. The 
strategy has been very tax efficient, resulting in significant  tax credits from HMRC. It was S4s 
view that the various schemes  had largely met the objectives.
Many of the investments were made to make a total loss, but they were successful in achieving 
the overall objective and the tax losses had been for Mr Os benefit.  Mr O had needed to pay 
virtually no income  tax over a period of ten years.
In situations where a total loss was incurred, Mr Os reaction was to consider further 
investment in similar companies to ensure the losses were offset against his taxable 
income, rather than having any regard for the investment itself.
Each of the investments individually and combined together were in line with the target asset 
allocation agreed  with Mr O.
S4 employed a holistic financial planning  strategy to meet Mr Os specific objectives  this 
entailed the growth of existing capital,  regular  investments into the portfolio  and carrying out 
effective tax planning.
The financial  plan was to spread the investments  across  the main investment classes with a 
view to reducing  overall volatility  and risk. A balanced asset  allocation was agreed,  with a real 
return target of 4% over the term of the plan.
A 30% target exposure to the commercial property sector was agreed,  and was only 
breached due to the withdrawals which  were  made from the portfolio.
The investment portfolio  was designed to follow  the balanced asset allocation plan,  but Mr O 
was fully aware that the tax mitigation  schemes were by no means balanced  they were 
aggressive tax mitigation  vehicles. As such, they must be separated  from the investment 
decisions.
Specifically in relation to the complaint about the MPPP 58, S4 said the following:
S4 recommended  that Mr O support the cash call, but also set out the risk that there could 
be a total  loss of original capital.
It also argued  that the complaint should be time barred. It said that Mr O had cause for concern 
by July 2010 at the latest, as evidenced  by emails from Mr O commenting  on the performance 
of many of his investments at the time, and that as he didnt complain until September 2013,  
the complaint had been  made out of time.
Jurisdiction
An ombudsman considered the arguments put forward by S4 regarding our jurisdiction to consider 
the complaint. He noted  that the investment  advice took place in July 2010  and Mr O complained to 
the business in 2013. This was within  six years  of the event complained of, so the ombudsman  was 
satisfied that it was a complaint we could look at. I have also considered this issue and I currently 
agree with the previous ombudsmans  findings.
I note that S4 hasnt objected to this or made further submissions  on that aspect, and 
therefore I dont intend to comment on this issue any further.
Separating the complaints
S4 also made representations relating to the decision of this service to consider seven of Mr Os 
complaints (which  had been determined  by the same ombudsman to be within  our jurisdiction) 
separately  this complaint forms one of those seven.
Ref: DRN9281649In support of its position, S4 said that the service it provided was full service  planning. It provided 
continuous investment advice on a wide range  of investment opportunities  and financial planning 
issues  including  pension planning, tax mitigation and investment planning. The service was 
provided in respect of Mr (and Mrs) Os overall  portfolio and wasnt confined to individual 
investments or schemes.
The ombudsman  considered the issue of whether this complaint should  be considered in isolation. 
He said in his determination on this that the recommendation took place around four years after 
the original MPPP 58 investment (which  hed concluded fell outside of our jurisdiction on 
timeliness grounds). He also said that it was a discrete piece of investment advice which  should 
be considered  on its own merits.
As such, the ombudsman said that the complaint should be considered on its own merits. I note 
that S4 has reserved the right to comment further on this, but hasnt done  so to date. Therefore, in 
the absence of any further representations from either party on this issue, I dont intend to comment  
upon this further.
Our investigation into the merits of the complaint
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. In support 
of this, he said the following:
The investment was unregulated  but he was satisfied that it was reasonable for S4 to 
categorise Mr O as an investor for whom a UCIS could be deemed suitable.
In support of this conclusion, he noted that Mr O had worked for international banks in 
derivative operations  and had held a very senior  role relating to this at one particular bank  
although he acknowledged Mr Os statement  that this had been a technical  role rather  than an 
investment role.
The evidence didnt suggest that Mr O had dealt with UCIS investments as part of his job, but 
he did have previous experience  of that type of investment  as a client of a previous  firm.
The nature of Mr Os employment would  have provided him with an understanding of risk 
beyond that of an ordinary  investor.  Given Mr Os business  acumen and experience with 
derivatives, hed be more familiar than most in dealing with complex and detailed  documents. 
And Mr O wouldnt have  invested if he hadnt understood the information  provided by S4.
The details  recorded  in the Risk Profile Assessment of August 2004 suggested that Mr O 
was willing  to take a higher than balanced  risk with his capital  although  the
adjudicator acknowledged that this hadnt been signed by Mr O, given  what he decided to do 
later, this was nevertheless an accurate reflection of his attitude to risk at the time.
Later Annual Review  Questionnaires in 2008 and 2010 also recorded Mr Os attitude to risk as 
being aggressive  and balanced-aggressive respectively.
Additional  evidence  indicated that Mr O was prepared to alter his risk profile in order to meet 
his investment objectives.  An email suggesting that all cautiously  rated investments be 
relinquished in favour of aggressive growth products  sent by Mr O to S4 in January 2011 was 
cited as an example.
The suitability letter said that the recommended  investment  was appropriate for Mr Os 
balanced risk profile.  But the adjudicator thought it likely that Mr O was aware that it carried  a 
higher than balanced  risk, especially given the risk warnings  provided  which Mr O would have 
understood.
The levels of risk would also have become increasingly apparent as Mr O became more 
involved with other similar  schemes  given  HMRCs  in depth  investigations into them.
Mr O confirmed that hed received the key features information  which contained  further 
warnings of the significant risks involved. That paperwork highlighted that the scheme carried 
a number of significant risks. It was reasonable to conclude  that Mr O was capable of 
understanding the information provided and that he would have considered this before 
deciding whether to invest.
Mr O would have  been  aware that, in being offered the scheme  by S4, it was treating him as 
someone they regarded as being able to understand the types  of risks associated with the 
investment.
By 2005, Mr O had already invested in a number of similar  schemes, which  would have given 
him the opportunity  to become acquainted with the paperwork,  design and workings of the 
schemes.
Ref: DRN9281649In terms of the amount  invested, whilst not unsubstantial, Mr O would  have realised how this 
fitted in with his overall financial position. And the amount itself didnt render his participation in it 
unsuitable.
Mr O disagreed  with the adjudicators assessment.  He said the following, including  reference to more  
general matters relating to the relationship  with S4 as a whole,  and those  specifically related  to the 
MPPP 58 cash call:
He had never worked in a business  role in derivatives and had never  been involved  in areas  
such as risk, finance, credit, legal,  documentation,  application development, trading, 
marketing, sales  or any other business role. He held a senior  position  in IT services with a 
major bank, which  involved  technology  operational  roles.
His role wouldnt have provided him with an understanding of risk beyond  that of an ordinary 
investor. Prior  to meeting  with the financial  adviser, his decision had been based on articles  in 
the financial media. His need for financial advice arose as a result of share options coming to 
fruition and nearly  doubling his wealth.
He had no knowledge of the investments recommended by the adviser prior to the latter  
introducing him to them.
Hed only ever had one financial adviser, whod moved from a previous firm to S4. Mr O had 
also complained  about advice given to him whilst  the adviser was at that previous firm, but had 
been told that hed need to complain to that firm.
When  he first met with the adviser  in early 2004, his objectives were agreed and have broadly 
remained consistent since. They were to plan for retirement  at age 50, have an actively managed 
portfolio invested  in a broad  range  of assets,  plan income  and investments in a tax efficient manner 
and fund his children through school  and higher  education.
The total value of his and his wifes investments when  he met the adviser was approximately 
£633,000  this included ISAs, shares (from employment), unit trusts and commercial property. 
They had a mortgage of £488,000  and two film partnership deals  created by the adviser meant 
that he had additional liabilities of approximately
£245,000. Including their holiday home, they had equity in their residences  of 
approximately £760,000.
He didnt choose  investments himself  he followed the recommendations of his adviser.
The investment strategy and objectives were defined in S4s response to his complaint  in 
December 2013  they were  to spread  investments across  the main  asset classes with a view 
to reducing volatility  and risk within your portfolio. From the firms  records it was agreed you 
would follow a Balanced Asset Allocation to target a real return  of 4% growth  over the term of 
the plan.
S4 recommended  every  investment as being suitable for a balanced risk profile.  He was aware 
that every investment carried a degree of risk, but he expected S4 to make appropriate 
recommendations based  upon the clearly established investment  criteria.
There  was only one occasion  in August 2010 - when  S4 made it clear  that the 
recommendation being  made carried  a higher than balanced risk rating. This description made  
him consider the investment in a very different light  and he only entered  into the investment on 
the basis that the entire portfolio was deemed appropriate for a balanced risk profile.
S4 determined a target asset allocation  for him, which was set out in the annual  reviews. This 
was split 20%/20%/30%/30% between Absolute Return funds, Fixed Interest, Equity and 
Property respectively up until January  2008, at which point Fixed  Interest and Property 
investments were  to be reduced  to 15% and 25% respectively to allow for a 10% investment  in 
Private Equity & Finance.
S4 were concerned at the beginning that he was overexposed  to high risk assets  with high 
levels of investment  in direct equity holdings  and other equity funds. At the time,  this was 
virtually all that he held and he had little or no knowledge of other asset classes.  S4 determined 
the asset  allocation  which would  be suitable for a balanced risk portfolio. But he had no 
knowledge of the asset classes in which S4 was recommending  70% of the portfolio  be invested 
 these  being Fixed Income, absolute return funds and commercial property (aside from that 
recommended by the adviser in 2004 whilst they were  client/adviser  at the previous firm).
The 30% weighting in commercial property was significant. Hed since learned that commercial 
property investment should have a minimal allocation  in a balanced risk portfolio. He considered  
that S4 didnt understand the commercial property investments,  which is why they exceeded an 
appropriate allocation in that asset  type.
Although it was the adjudicators view that he would  have become familiar with the paperwork 
design and workings of such schemes through the investments  since 2004, he queried  as to 
Ref: DRN9281649what this would have told him. It gave him no insight into the suitability of such  investments for 
a balanced risk portfolio.
S4 were the experts and he followed their advice, and nothing went  wrong with them until many 
years later  after hed stopped working.  As far as he was concerned, S4 was creating  a balanced 
risk portfolio,  and if hed had any concerns,  he wouldnt have retired.
He wasnt a party to the balanced aggressive risk profile in the Investment Risk Profile 
Assessment which  had been  submitted  to the adjudicator by S4. Hed not seen the document 
before and had no recollection of it being completed. Throughout the suitability reports, 
reference was only ever made to a balanced portfolio.
The document was dated 31 August 2004, but as also confirmed by S4, he didnt 
become their client until September 2004  so it was completed before this.
If there was any foundation in the content  of the document prepared  in August 2004,  then it would  
be expected that this would  be repeated in suitability  reports  thereafter.  But there wasnt a single  
mention of anything other than a balanced  risk profile until August 2010.
In the November 2008 annual review  questionnaire,  his top three priorities were 
school/university fees, financial independence and inheritance tax planning.  He ticked the 
aggressive box, but underneath this wrote No current  earned  income. Hed ticked the 
aggressive box as S4 had introduced a reasonable overseas exposure as per their definition 
of aggressive. He wanted  to ensure that S4 hadnt changed his risk profile without discussion  
or agreement,  and it confirmed that this was the asset it was using  for the determination of his 
balanced portfolio.
This was reaffirmed in the review document of June 2009,  which said that his attitude  to risk 
could realistically  be described as Balanced .
In the annual  review questionnaire  of May 2010, his top three priorities were  to repay his 
mortgage, cover  tax liabilities and generate adequate retirement income  with future  events to 
plan for being  school/university fees and a house  extension costed  at approximately  £275,000.
In that document,  he ticked  balanced/aggressive, but the annual review document of 
September 2010 reaffirmed the balanced risk profile. He wouldnt have changed this, as at 
this point  he had no income and had increased  his mortgage.  He considered that his exposure 
to commercial  property  was too great and so wished  to reduce  this and increase his holding in 
equities.
In September 2009, S4 confirmed that it considered him to be a balanced risk investor.
His objectives from the start of his relationship  with the adviser wouldnt have allowed him to 
take undue  risks, upon which he was dependent to achieve  his aim of early retirement from a 
stressful IT role.
There  was no mention  in any suitability  reports of his risk rating  being anything other than 
balanced and he believed  that S4 was making  recommendations  in accordance with that.
He sent the email from January 2011  cited by the adjudicator in his findings  as he wanted 
to increase his exposure to equities. This had nothing to do with any of the investments 
complained of.
In the annual review dated September 2010, S4 set out that he by that time had a 34% 
exposure to property,  which exceeded the 25% target  and he only had 25% invested  in 
equities against  a target of 30%.  Although  S4 said that it would correct  this, it had failed  to do 
so some months later.
Specifically in regard to the MPPP 58 cash call, Mr O made  the following points:
S4 viewed  property as a key component of his balanced portfolio, allocating 30% to this
 but in fact exceeding that amount.
The investment of around 35% of a relatively  modest SIPP was invested in commercial property, which  
S4 viewed  as a balancing measure  to the more volatile aspects of the portfolio.
But far from being the balancing measure, the property investments  collapsed, resulting in a 
near halving of the SIPPs value.
Within the SIPP, a £70,000 investment was illiquid, which meant that he was unable to draw 
on the value  and so the true value may in fact be lower.
For the purposes of retirement planning, hed assumed an annual  growth rate of 6% to provide  
a sum of around  £450,000 at age 55 (in 2016).  But its current  value was approximately 
£140,000, including  the illiquid  investment.
The fact that his portfolio was defined as balanced led him to believe that a 30% 
investment in commercial  property was appropriate.  But this wasnt the case.
Over a period  of 10 years, S4 changed his SIPP provider four or five times, which hed 
concluded was an opportunity for S4 to take fees.
Ref: DRN9281649He didnt understand what had happened  to his SIPP   some investments seemed  to have 
disappeared and S4 was reluctant to provide the information  hed requested about  the 
investment choices and statements  which he said hed never received.
Every pension transfer and the investments he was aware of were always defined  as balanced.
Mr O made the following concluding remarks about his relationship with S4:
Hed been saving toward his own and then wider family objectives  since he started work at 18. 
Hed considered himself to have a balanced  attitude to risk and couldnt afford  to be exposed to 
anything other  than that.
But the advice hed received  had been disastrous.  At the beginning,  hed been advised to invest  
approximately £290,000 in film partnerships, which  created  liabilities of around
£500,000  leaving him with an overall  negative asset value. This was designed to improve  
his retirement income, but the position would  deteriorate due to the enquiries  which were  
ongoing into this type of scheme.
Hed been advised  to invest around £360,000 in commercial property, of which hed lost in the 
region of £330,000.
A further £187,000  was then invested in film schemes, of which around £150,000  had been 
lost.
Although some investments had made money, further non-mainstream schemes  made 
significant losses, to the extent that the value  of his SIPP  and other investments had almost 
halved over 13 years.
He still had a mortgage  of approximately  £540,000, which his investments had been 
designed to repay.
The only investments  hed made of his own design were the ISAs and some shares, which  had 
been severely depleted to cover  the losses incurred on the other investments.
Mr O queried as to what, from the overall portfolio of investments S4 created,  had been suitable  
for a balanced  portfolio. Although hed finished working at 50 as planned, things had deteriorated 
financially since.  His view was that S4 had recommended investments without  any regard for his 
objectives, overall financial position and risk profile. But he in turn had generated fees for S4 of 
well over £100,000.
In most instances  where S4 had quoted the overall  value of his assets, it had done so incorrectly, for 
example including liabilities as assets and omitting certain liabilities altogether.
Nothing had performed as S4 had outlined in the suitability reports.  Virtually no positive returns  
or income was generated.
S4 had halved his pension investments of over £300,000 over the period of advising him, 
and he was unable to draw  on his pension  income due to the inclusion  of the recommended 
investments.
S4s advice had been  totally  misleading  it defined a balanced portfolio and portrayed every  
investment as being suitable for a balanced risk profile. He had no knowledge  of the investments 
until they were  presented to him by the adviser   and he believed that certain  investments had 
been recommended  to generate fees and money for reinvestment.
His life and retirement plans had been ruined  financially and emotionally.
If hed wanted  to reduce  his tax liability,  he could have moved to countries  with lower tax regimes  
with his employer. S4 introduced the tax efficient aspects  of investing, but if this hadnt been 
consistent with a balanced risk portfolio, it should have made this very clear.
All the evidence  indicated that S4 was investing for a balanced risk portfolio  and risk profile. 
He had no knowledge that would  have assisted him in assessing  the recommendations.
As agreement  hadnt been reached, the adjudicator confirmed that the matter would  be referred  
to an ombudsman for review.
S4s representative commented on the adjudicators assessment, and Mr Os response, in the 
following terms:
It agreed with the conclusions reached  it said the adjudicator had accurately  identified  Mr O as 
someone for whom this, and other, investments were suitable,  given his investment  experience, 
high net worth investor status and attitude  to risk. And that he took an active role in choosing his 
investments.
S4 had correctly  treated Mr O as someone who had the knowledge  and financial 
sophistication to be able to understand the relevant  documents,  as well as the level of risk 
Ref: DRN9281649associated with the investments. That level of knowledge and sophistication was clear from 
his communications, both contemporaneous and current.
Although it didnt  alter the experience  Mr O had with investments, it submitted a screenshot of Mr 
Os LinkedIn page,  which it said contradicted Mr Os description  of his employment role. The 
page described him as having a senior position in derivative operations. The same  page also 
referred to Mr Os role since 2008 as involving a range of consulting, interim management, start 
up and investment opportunities.
The suitability documents signed  by Mr O also demonstrated that hed held roles with other 
organisations in which hed been involved in venture capital and consultancy  work. This 
contradicted Mr Os assertion that he had never held a business  role and worked only in IT 
operational areas.
The portfolio valuations provided by S4 were as accurate as possible  they reflected the 
assets of which  S4 was aware and for which S4 was able to obtain a valuation.
Mr O also provided a further submission for the attention of the deciding ombudsman:
He queried  the adjudicators reliance on the risk profiling  assessment completed in August 
2004, in which Mr Os risk profile was recorded as balanced/aggressive. If this were  true, S4 
would have stated this in every suitability report  but it didnt. On the contrary, every 
reference was to a balanced portfolio.
The first statement of high net worth individual wasnt signed and given to S4. It was given  to 
a firm of solicitors  for a very specific purpose and not to be applied to any subsequent 
investments by S4.
He reiterated  that hed only been employed  in technical roles. Hed never  been responsible for 
derivatives and future modelling,  or been  employed in a business role. This was borne out by 
the suitability  reports.
He was confused as to some of the wording used by the adjudicator relating to ongoing and in 
depth investigations  being  undertaken  by HMRC into various  schemes   of which the adjudicator 
had said hed likely be aware. And the adjudicator appeared to be referencing separate  
investments within  the same findings.
In its letter  of December 2013 to the complaint, S4 said, in a section entitled Investment 
Strategy & Objectives:
According to the firms  records  you were  engaged with S4 as a holistic financial  planning 
client, following a long term financial plan to meet your specific investment objectivesThe 
financial plan and model you were  following  was underpinned by an asset allocation, which  
spread your investments  across the main investment asset classes with a view to reducing  
volatility and risk within your portfolio.  From the firms records it was agreed you 
would follow a Balanced Asset Allocation to target  a real return of 4% growth  over the 
term of the plan. (Mr Os emphasis)
S4 recommended  every  investment as being suitable for a balanced risk profile.
He was aware that every  investment carried  a degree of risk, but the level of risk he was prepared to 
take was clearly defined against a known background and financial  position. And S4 should have 
made appropriate recommendations against the clearly established  criteria.
Only on one occasion  did S4 make it clear that what they were recommending represented a 
higher than balanced  risk rating  in August 2010. And even then, he only agreed to the 
investment on the basis that the entire portfolio was deemed appropriate for a balanced risk 
profile. This was confirmed within the accompanying suitability report.
It wasnt  tenable that S4, or this service, could  conclude that his attitude to risk was 
anything other  than balanced.
Movement of the SIPP  between providers
S4 has also commented further on Mr Os comments about  his SIPP having been transferred on 
several occasions  and his suggestion that this was designed  to produce fees for S4 rather than to 
benefit him.
Ref: DRN9281649It said the following:
When  Mr O became  a client of S4, he switched his Equitable Life Pension into a Winterthur Life 
Universal SIPP. This comprised  funds from a protected rights pension (one which  derives 
from second state pension contributions) and a non-rights pension held within the SIPP.
In 2006,  Winterthur launched its The One SIPP product  capable of holding  protected rights 
and other  funds in one wrapper. S4 advised Mr O to switch his funds to The One SIPP. But no 
fee was charged  for that advice.
AXA then acquired Winterthur in June 2006, and re-branded the plan held by Mr O as the 
AXA SIPP.  This was a re-branding caused by the acquisition transaction, not a change made  
by S4 or on its advice.  No fee was charged.
AXA became  Friends  Life in 2011, following the amalgamation of Friends Provident (being the 
majority of AXAs UK life business) and Bupa Health Assurance. This resulted  in a further re-
branding to the Friends  Life SIPP. Again, this re-branding  was caused by the changes  to the 
SIPP provider and was not a change made by S4 - or on its advice. As such, no fee became  
due and none was charged.
Friends  Life then sold the SIPP to Curtis  Bank but retained  management  of the 
protected rights element.
In 2011,  on S4s advice, Mr O brought the protected rights element of his SIPP back together with the 
other funds in a single  SIPP provided  by IPM. S4 made no charge in respect of this switch,  the 
purpose of which  was to rationalise the position by having a single SIPP - and the assets were 
switched in specie  so that their value remained the same.
my provisional  findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Im required by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and DISP to determine the complaint by reference  to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to take into account  relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance, standards, and codes  of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I should  be clear at the outset that the investment Im considering here is the further investment of 
funds into MPPP  58 in 2010. I wont be considering  the original investment into that partnership  in 
2006, as an ombudsman has previously  determined that that complaint is outside of our jurisdiction.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The following isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which  applied to a firm when 
giving advice, but provides  useful context for my assessment of S4s actions here.
COBS 2.1.1R required  a business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client ". And in order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements  
in COBS 9.2.2R, S4 needed  to gather the necessary  information  for it to be confident that its advice 
met Mr Os objectives.
It also needed to ensure  that Mr O had the necessary  experience  and knowledge  to understand the 
risks he was taking. Broadly  speaking, that section sets out the requirement  for a regulated advisory  
business to undertake  a fact find process.
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS  9.4.7R required a business to explain  why the firm has 
concluded that the recommended transaction is suitable for the client" - in other words, it needed to 
provide its client with a suitability report outlining its advice and the reasons  for it.
In this case, S4 wrote to Mr O in July 2010, recommending that he invest  further into the MPPP 58. 
On the basis of that letter  and other information relevant  to the case, I therefore  consider in the 
following sections whether S4 adhered to its regulatory obligations and gave Mr O suitable advice.
UCIS promotion
This investment was an unregulated collective investment  scheme (UCIS).  Section 238 of the 
Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) prohibited the promotion  of UCIS to the general 
Ref: DRN9281649public, unless an investor fell within certain exempted categories. One of these  is, and as set out in 
the FSMA (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, the categorisation of the investor as a high net worth 
individual.
Mr O signed  a Statement of Certified  High Net Worth for Individuals on 26 May 2010. And from the 
detail contained within the suitability report and financial  valuations, this is consistent with Mr Os 
circumstances at the time. Im therefore satisfied that Mr O was correctly categorised as a high net 
worth individual and so was eligible to receive UCIS promotions. I also think that, on balance,  Mr O 
was capable of understanding that document when  he signed it.
Mr Os understanding of the investment and the associated  risks
What I need to determine next is whether Mr O was provided with sufficient information  to be able to 
understand the investment.
Ive thought very carefully about the submissions made by both S4 and Mr O relating to his level of 
investment experience, business acumen, employment history and levels of participation in directing 
investments  and to what extent this would  have  furnished him with an understanding of the 
investment proposal here.
Having done so, my view is that Mr O could  fairly and reasonably be described as an intelligent, 
capable individual, who would have had the capacity to understand what  was being proposed. And if 
he didnt, I think he would have queried  the nature of the investment with the adviser.
The additional investment amount of £7,584 into MPPP 58, whilst a relatively small percentage  of 
Mr Os overall portfolio, was not an insubstantial  sum.  And I think it fair to conclude  that Mr O 
would have wanted to satisfy himself that he understood the proposal  before entering into the 
arrangement.
As it was, the suitability report set out the details of the investment. One of those  was that the loan 
to covenant ratio could  be breached  a situation which had led to the cash  call which  was now 
being made.
I dont think it could  therefore be reasonably  claimed that S4 sought to underplay,  or otherwise failed 
to disclose, the known risks of the individual  investment. But there were  also unknown  risk relating to 
swaps (insofar as any property sale before the end of that contract  might incur  break costs).
From my reading of the file, my understanding  is that swaps didnt feature in the investment 
prospectus issued by Merchant Place  and that this was the subject of a separate  complaint against 
that business. Nevertheless, it was a risk of which  Mr O was unaware, and one to which he was 
exposed through the recommendation  from S4.
Ive therefore thought carefully  about whether  awareness  of that additional risk would have altered  
Mr Os decision to proceed.
In doing so, Ive noted that many of the risks of the partnership had already been set out in the 
suitability report for the original MPPP 58 investment, along  with the further suitability report for the 
cash call. One of those key risks was that Mr O might need to subsidise any loss of rent if that 
income stream  failed  to prevent the bank from foreclosing  on the loan and selling at a potentially  
reduced value.
Another of the risks was the potential  total loss of the initial  investment. And although  the existence 
of a swap contract might  have  a further effect  on the propertys sale value if this happened before  
the contract ended, Mr O was nevertheless  aware that reductions in the property value  could have 
a magnified effect on any losses sustained.
So my view is that the additional risk presented by the swap was quite  similar in the effect - if not the 
cause - of significant capital  reduction or potential total loss. I know Mr O feels differently, and that the 
swap represented an elevated risk, but as he was prepared to accept either  possibility as a result of 
other known  risks, not least an awareness at that stage of the effect of loan to value covenant 
breaches, Im not persuaded  that knowledge of the additional risk would have necessarily  altered  Mr 
Os decision to proceed.
Ref: DRN9281649Therefore, my conclusion here is that, even if the additional risk had been set out, Mr O 
probably wouldnt  have  been deterred from investing.
The agreed  risk rating for the portfolio
Much has been made of Mr Os level of sophistication or the experience he would  have picked 
up through other investments or employment roles he held.
But it doesnt  naturally follow that he was keen  to invest in predominantly high risk products. Nor 
would it absolve  a regulated  firm of financial  advisers  from the responsibilities  as outlined above  of 
assessing his circumstances, objectives and appetite for risk (rather than awareness of risk and 
capacity for loss) and providing  suitable advice.
Furthermore, although Mr O may have had awareness  of a range of investments, perhaps including 
derivatives, if he had the levels of investment knowledge attributed  to him, I would  question  as to 
why he needed the services of a financial adviser  at all  services which by his own reckoning had 
generated many  tens of thousands of pounds in fees and so would have reduced the value of his 
portfolio accordingly.
The fact is that he was nevertheless seeking the advice  of a professional  firm, which he was justified in 
believing had greater knowledge still. And irrespective of the provision  of risk warnings, or an awareness of 
those risks, he was entitled  to expect, and to receive, suitable advice.
A key theme of Mr Os submissions has been that S4 always portrayed the investments as being 
suitable for a balanced risk profile. But Ive thought carefully about  whether this would reasonably 
have been his impression  of certain  individual higher  risk investments within the overall portfolio. Its 
also worth  noting that, in the review report produced in September 2010, Mr O had confirmed  that he 
held a balanced/aggressive risk profile. Given the proximity of this to the advice in July 2010, I 
consider this to be a reasonable assessment of Mr Os risk profile at the slightly earlier point.
A balanced/aggressive  risk profile was described as follows:
A Balanced Aggressive investor  is generally market aware and understands and is willing to accept  a 
higher level of risk (including a small exposure to overseas markets) in return  for the potential for 
higher returns  in the longer term. They recognise  that this may result  in the value of their portfolio 
fluctuating, possibly significantly,  in the short term.
My view is that its highly unlikely that Mr O, appreciating the risks involved,  would have believed all of his 
individual investments  to carry a balanced risk rating. And this is a view endorsed not only by his own 
comments relating  to property investments being designed to balance the more volatile aspects  of his 
portfolio, but also by his acceptance of higher  risk investments as being a part of an overall balanced,  or 
by this time, balanced/aggressive risk portfolio.
So my conclusion here is that, irrespective  of whether  Mr O would reasonably have viewed  some of 
the individual investments  as having a balanced/aggressive risk profile,  Mr O was entitled to believe 
that S4 was creating  an overall balanced/aggressive  risk portfolio for him.
But I also think that, in the creation of a balanced/aggressive portfolio, in which there are no set rules  
relating to asset allocation, factors such as risk awareness and specific aims or agreed percentages of 
asset allocation can come into play. Ill discuss  this further in the next section.
Was the recommended  investment suitable for the agreed risk profile of the overall portfolio?
As Ive said above, irrespective of Mr Os investment experience or his ability  to understand and 
willingness to accept the risks of the specific investment, he was nevertheless entitled to receive  
suitable advice.
Id firstly comment on S4s assertion that Mr O wasnt a passive recipient of investment advice, but 
was actively  involved in directing investments.  Ive only seen  one documented instance of this, 
however  the email of January 2011. Within that email, Mr O asked when switches could be done  
on the funds he held. Mr O said that they should virtually dump  all bonds etc and go aggressive 
growth.
Ref: DRN9281649K820x#14Theres email evidence  within the business files that Mr O was at various time 
seeking explanations  and reassurances relating to his investments, but the available 
evidence doesnt  support the position that, before 2011, he was actively directing 
investments.
So Im satisfied that, but for one documented instance,  Mr O was very much reacting  to 
the recommendations and opportunities that were  put to him by S4.
Although Mr Os risk profile was by this time described as being balanced/aggressive,  prior 
to that Mr O was routinely described  as holding a balanced risk portfolio. Mr O refers to 
this often, but with good reason  throughout the suitability report for this (and other)  cases, 
S4 referred to the portfolio as being balanced.
There are other indications which also corroborate a prior balanced risk rating for Mr O, 
along with previous  investment experience of only more mainstream types of investment. 
For example, the life plan produced  in March 2004 (when Mr O was a client of the 
previous firm) detailed his asset  split as being  46.5% in cash and fixed interest,  and 53.5%  
in a range  of global equities, including direct  share holdings. It was also noted  at the time 
that only around 4.2% of the portfolio was invested in managed funds. The overall 
investment fund was valued at approximately  £927,000 at that time.  Pension plans 
between Mr and Mrs O also accounted  for a further £218,000.
Within the non-pension arrangements, there  was no investment in property, hedge funds  
or structured  products.  And so, whilst it wasnt perhaps as diversified  as a typical 
portfolio, it nevertheless had the balancing features of higher  and lower risk assets.
Mr O was then introduced  to tax mitigation schemes and other non-mainstream 
investments, such as this property partnership. This process began whilst Mr O was a client 
of the previous firm, but notably  receiving  recommendations from the same adviser who 
then became a part of S4.
The property partnership was originally designed to complement  the overall  
balanced portfolio. But it in my view belonged  in the higher risk category of the 
investments held.
There are, for example,  particular aspects of this type of property investment which  
distinguish it from commercial property fund investment, the latter  of which  might be viewed  
as suiting  a balanced risk profile. Firstly, this was an investment into one partnership,  and 
although it may have been spread across developments  in the UK, it nevertheless lacked 
the diversity of a typical property fund.  Any liquidity  issues would  have been exacerbated by 
the small number of similar properties held within  the partnership.
It was also a geared investment, which meant that there was an attractive  upside, where 
gains could be increased beyond  that which  would  normally be expected from the initial 
stake  but the losses would also be magnified. The existence  of the loan also presented 
a risk in the form of potential breaches of covenant in the loan to value ratio if the 
property value  reduced  as had already happened here.
There were  also risks relating to the potential  for tenants to stop paying rent, which  
would leave Mr O encumbered with the responsibility to make up any shortfall (along 
with other costs) to prevent the lender from foreclosing  on the loan.
So my view is that this type of investment represented a higher than balanced risk, and 
given its non-mainstream specialist  nature, also arguably  higher than balanced/aggressive.  
Only by inclusion in an overall portfolio - and my view is that Mr O was reasonably entitled 
to believe that the recommended investment  formed part of an overall balanced/aggressive 
risk life planning strategy - do I think that this could  be said to constitute a suitable 
recommendation for that type of risk profile. And that would very much depend on the wider  
asset split of the overall portfolio (which I assess in more detail below).
Ref: DRN928164943As a reminder  at this point, Mr O has also said that he wouldnt  have objected to high risk 
schemes forming part of the overall portfolio so long as they were small in percentage 
terms and balanced out by other lower risk investments.
And I agree  that that type of format is likely to constitute a recognisable and suitable  
makeup of a typical balanced/aggressive risk portfolio  one which has a diverse mix of 
assets and so different  types of exposure to investment risk.
A typical  balanced/aggressive  portfolio  might be expected to contain a lower percentage 
of investment in less risky investments, and a higher concentration in more  speculative 
assets. But as Ive said above, there are no hard and fast rules  in terms of what  constitutes 
a balanced/aggressive portfolio. The actual make-up will be quite subjective and rely 
heavily on a range of factors, which, in this instance, would reasonably  have provided  
greater latitude in increasing the weighting in some of the higher  risk investments.
One of the key aspects  in that regard  is Mr Os acceptance of the specific risks posed 
(and detailed by S4) - and I note that in the letter of complaint to Merchant Place  relating 
to the issue of undisclosed  risks, Mr O said although the existence of the loans is not an 
issue or concern for me. A further factor is Mr Os acceptance and agreement that 
commercial property would represent a proportion  of his overall portfolio.
I appreciate Mr Os point that it was S4 who suggested  the investment in commercial 
property to balance out the riskier  aspects in the portfolio. And this can indeed be the 
case, although  for the reasons given  above, my view is that the risks of a geared property 
partnership are higher than investment in more  diversified property funds.
Ive therefore  carefully considered Mr (and Mrs) Os overall portfolio in July 2010. Theres 
no asset split for that month, but there was a portfolio  valuation in September 2010.  This 
should be reliable as an indication  of the types of asset held at that earlier point.
This tells me that, of the overall portfolio  (valued at £2.13m excluding directly held 
property), the investment complained of would  have represented around 0.4%.  As at 
September 2010, Mr and Mrs Os portfolio  was recorded as follows:
Absolute Return £182,879 7.1%
Asia Pacific/Japan Equity £26,374 1.0%
Cash £44,951 1.7%
European Equity £42,220 1.6%
Fixed Interest £68,551 2.7%
Global Equity £2,043 0.1%
Rest of World Equity £11,184 0.4%
Property £348,009 13.5%
Specialist Equity £42,000 1.6%
UK Equity £91,282 3.5%
US Equity £39,942 1.5%
Asset Allocation Funds £187,607 7.3%
Private Equity & Finance £100,000 3.9%
Tax Based  Property - EZTs £27,003 1.0%
Tax Based  Equity - VCT & EIS £108,133 4.2%
Direct Equity Holdings £387,651 15.0%
Non-Managed Cash & Bonds £401,109 15.5%
Non-Managed Funds £18,804 0.7%
(Main residence) (£450,000) (17.4%)
The total exposure  to property, including property funds, tax and non-tax based partnerships,  
but excluding directly  held property such as the main residence, was around £422,000. Tax 
based and non-tax based  partnerships accounted for £27,000 and £196,000  of this 
respectively. Therefore, including the further  investment into MPPP 58, by September  2010 Mr 
Ref: DRN928164944Os overall property  holding, both tax and non-tax based,  amounted to around 20% of the 
portfolio.
Within my assessment  of the overall portfolio, Ive included the pension assets. I think  this 
a reasonable approach, not least because the investment  complained of here was held 
within Mr Os SIPP, but also because this was a life plan for Mr O and his family, and the 
objective of early retirement was a very prominent feature of his financial planning.
If I remove the pension assets, leaving  a net portfolio of £1.75m at the time, the overall 
commitment to property if I exclude the £67,000 invested in property partnerships within  
the pension plans, remains at just over 20% of the portfolio.
By that point,  the ratio between  the main  asset classes (including pension  funds) was 
as follows:
Absolute Return 11%
Cash/Fixed Interest/Bonds 25%
Equities 33%
Property 20%
Private Equity/Finance/VCTs 11%
In my view,  the portfolio  resembled a typical balanced portfolio  and was certainly not 
too high risk to be inconsistent  with a balanced/aggressive portfolio. It had 25% invested 
in lower risk assets,  20% invested in various property  assets and the remainder in a 
mixture of absolute return funds, equities and private equity.
And Id reiterate my view on the potential of a balanced/aggressive portfolio to take various 
guises, influenced by a range of factors  specific to the individual and their circumstances. 
Mr O was aware of the specific risks of the scheme, and was accepting  of commercial  
property investment accounting for a proportion  of his portfolio. He also accepted the 
principle of higher risk ventures being balanced  out by other lower risk investments in the 
creation of a balanced/aggressive portfolio.
Therefore, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably conclude that the individual investment 
of 0.4% - and overall 20% - invested in commercial  property, even with the higher risks 
posed by this type of partnership,  was in this particular instance unsuitable within a 
balanced/aggressive risk portfolio for Mr O.
The movement of the SIPP between providers
Ive noted both Mr Os and S4s comments about the movement  of his SIPP  between  
providers over the years hes held it. Having  done so, Im not persuaded  that this has been 
motivated by fee earning opportunities  for S4.
The switch in 2006 appears to have taken  place  in house, within  Winterthur, and no fee 
was charged. The further changes to the SIPP appear to have been the result of acquisitions  
and mergers between 2006, until 2011 when, upon S4s advice Mr O transferred all 
elements of his SIPP funds into one SIPP  provided by IPM. But S4 has said that there was 
in any case no fee charged for that advice and that the holdings were transferred in specie.  
As such, its also unlikely that there was any transfer penalty to pay to the ceding provider.
On balance, therefore, it doesnt seem  to be the case that Mr O has been financially  
disadvantaged by the switches advised upon by S4.
Summary
Mr O was unaware of at least one of the specific key risks associated with the investment 
 the swap. But having considered the similar type of outcome which might have arisen  
from other known risks, Im not persuaded that awareness of the additional  risk would  
have altered Mr Os decision making here.
Ref: DRN928164945But irrespective of Mr Os awareness of the risks or experience with investments, a fair and 
reasonable analysis  leads me to conclude  that he was nevertheless expecting, and entitled, 
to receive suitable advice from a skilled  financial professional.
Mr O was aware, and was justified in believing,  that the scheme was designed to form part 
of an overall  balanced/aggressive portfolio. But having considered the overall asset split of 
the portfolio at the time, along with specific  factors  which would inform the creation  of a 
balanced/aggressive risk portfolio for Mr O, Im satisfied that, on balance,  the investment 
could reasonably be described as suitable.
Having further considered the matter of the changes in SIPP provider over the years, I dont  
think the available evidence supports the position that those switches which were  advised  
upon by S4 were  designed  to generate fees, or that Mr O would in any case  have been 
financially disadvantaged as a result.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im currently minded to not uphold the complaint.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9281649