K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has applied  charges to his business account when it 
returned direct debits unpaid and that these are unfair.
background
Mr W contacted  Lloyds  about the charges. It agreed to refund and waive a total of £125.  But 
it said that other charges were applied in line with its tariff and it would not be refunding 
anything further.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Lloyds has shown  that the charges were  applied in line with its tariff and were not 
covered under its offer of free banking to Mr W.
-Lloyds had refunded £100  of charges that had been applied to his account and 
waived a further £25 charge and £0.01 of unauthorised borrowing interest.
-It was not prepared to refund any further charges. She noted in particular  that it 
appeared to have  refunded £35 of the £40 in charges applied  on 11 June  2018.  But 
as this was a gesture of goodwill she did not have a basis  to require it to refund the 
other £5. She also said that the fee for each unpaid item had increased from £20 to 
£25 in July 2018.
Mr W did not agree that this was fair and thought  we had refused to ask Lloyds for further 
clarification of its charges.  He said it had not provided him with details of the fees for unpaid 
direct debits when he signed up for the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Lloyds is entitled  to set its own published  tariff of bank charges. It agreed to give 
Mr W 18 months of free  banking for his business.  But Ive not seen any evidence  that this 
applied to the charges due when direct  debits were applied to his account that would if paid 
have resulted in unauthorised borrowing. Or that he had any agreed borrowing facility  on his 
account. A Supreme Court ruling  in 2009 established that there  is no basis for him to 
challenge the level of this type of bank charges on the basis that they are too high or unfair.
Lloyds has given Mr W notice of the charges due on the bank statements for his account. I 
appreciate that there were  a number of these charges applied. Mr W spoke  to Lloyds and it 
agreed to refund £100 of charges already applied. This credit went  onto his account on 15 
August 2018.  I understand  why he was unhappy  to be charged a further £200 on 10 
September 2018. And that this was for charges that had already been incurred at the time he 
first spoke to Lloyds. It declined to refund  those  charges but as our adjudicator said waived 
upcoming fees and interest of a total of £25.01. 
Our adjudicator has set out in detail  for Mr W the charges applied to his account and the 
refunds. I agree  with her that the refunds were  a gesture of goodwill. Im not persuaded 
Lloyds has not made  any mistake. Although I can appreciate the effects of such charges for 
a small business like Mr Ws I dont have a basis to require Lloyds to make  any further 
refunds.
Ref: DRN96791082my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank UK Plc need  
take no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9679108