K821x#15complaint
Ms J has complained about advice she was given by BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd in 
2012. This was advice  to transfer the funds from her personal pension plan with provider A 
to a SIPP with provider B. 
background
In August  2012,  Blackstar wrote to Ms J noting that she wished to use her pension  to 
purchase an overseas  property via an agent of the property developer.  It said that she had 
only requested its advice as to a suitable  SIPP to facilitate the purchase as her existing 
pension arrangements would not allow this purchase.
Later that month  around £20,000 was transferred from Ms Js plan with provider A to the 
SIPP with provider B.
In January 2013, Food Water and Energy SA wrote to provider B. It thanked it for 
purchasing SCS Farmland  in Argentina (through  the SIPP).
In July 2013 provider B sent an e-mail to Blackstar which said that it was not associated 
with this investment  as the appropriateness test was sent by another business and the 
transaction was on a non-advised basis.
Ms J wrote to Blackstar making  a complaint in September 2014. Blackstar  sent a final 
response in December 2015. It said,  in summary:
Ms J signed a client agreement in June 2012. She agreed to pay a fixed initial  fee of 
£1,800. An on-going  fee of 1% of the pension  fund value would also apply.
At a meeting in August 2012,  Ms J decided to proceed with the transfer of her 
pension with provider  A to the SIPP with provider B. This was in preparation for 
making her fund available  to facilitate the purchase of an off plan [Dominican 
Republic] property, should she decide to proceed  to sign contracts and complete the 
purchase.
At this point the purchase itself could  not go ahead. This was due to the size of the 
current pension fund and was conditional upon adding  additional  contributions.
Ms J was in the process of selling a buy to let investment property to make  up that 
shortfall.
Its report from August 2012 said that Ms J had only requested its advice as to a 
suitable SIPP to facilitate this purchase. Only a SIPP would meet her stated 
objectives despite it being more  expensive than her plan or a stakeholder plan.
The transfer went ahead in later that month  and the SIPP received  the funds from 
provider A.
It was only in January  2013 that there was an additional transaction relating to the 
purchase of "Direct Land Purchase & Leaseback in Argentina".
Provider B said that this transaction had been conducted as an execution only trade  
submitted via a different adviser.  It said that Blackstar  was not associated  with this 
investment in any way.
Blackstar decided not to charge its agreed  1% annual fee to the SIPP.  This was 
because it had not been involved  with the investment of Ms Js SIPP  funds.
It appears that Ms J had elected not to transfer  her servicing away from Blackstar yet 
at the same time sought an investment service from a different adviser.
Ref: DRN97184062The reason  for the complaint appeared to be that the SCS Farmland Investment had 
failed to deliver any capital or income  payments. However, Blackstar  were only 
notified about this investment after the event by provider B.
Ms J referred the complaint to this service. She completed a questionnaire. This said:
A representative (rep) of CGI Investments (CGI) showed  her a brochure  that had 
been produced  by a different adviser  which included a number of investments. 
The CGI rep told her that he was working with Blackstar. As CGI were  not registered  
IFAs and that Blackstar would organise the set-up of the SIPP  to transfer  her pension 
into so that she could invest into the Dominican  Republic property. Although  she 
could not raise enough money  to invest into that property, the CGI rep subsequently  
recommended SCS Farmland  to her as an alternative.
She was warned that she could lose her entire  pension investment. And at no point 
did anyone tell her not to go ahead.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. He recommended that the complaint 
should be partially upheld as the SIPP was not a suitable recommendation. But he said that 
Blackstar should only be responsible for losses up to the date of investment in SCS 
Farmland. It should not be responsible  for losses arising from the failed investment. 
Blackstar accepted  the adjudication.
Ms Js representative didnt agree. It said:
It was clear from the documentation and Ms Js answers to our questionnaire that an 
unregulated business  [CGI investments] played  a large role in the facilitation  of this 
pension transfer.
A recent update issued by the FCA said Providing a simplified or limited  advice 
process to consumers to facilitate investment  into unregulated, high risk, illiquid 
products, whether  they are based  in the UK or overseas, or delegating regulated 
activity to an unauthorised  party will not mean that the firm can avoid liability or 
regulatory action  for unsuitable advice (or lack of advice).
The guidance was recently issued. But it only reiterated the current rules.
If Ms J had been correctly advised  by Blackstar,  the transfer to provider  B would 
never have taken place.  Her pension funds would have remained with provider A. So 
Blackstar should be made liable for the whole  of Ms Js loss.
Provider B has subsequently  said that other than a fee for the establishment of the SIPP no 
fees were paid to Blackstar and in connection with the SCS Farmland investment no fees 
were paid to any party.  It also said that it was now unable to confirm which business sent in 
the SCS Farmland  investment paperwork.
Blackstar said that it was clear from its email exchange with provider B and also 
correspondence from Ms J herself, that a different financial adviser was involved with this 
investment. This was clear as Ms J indicated to Blackstar  that it was her intention to pursue 
the matter through the FSCS.  This would only be a route available once that adviser  was 
declared in default.  This was announced  on 29th July 2014.
Ms Js representatives also said:
Ref: DRN97184063It had never alleged that Blackstar was involved In Ms J's decision to invest  into SCS 
Farmland. But if Blackstar had warned Ms J not to move  her pension,  the subsequent  
investment into SCS Farmland  would not have  been made.
The SIPP was in existence and her pension  fund had already been transferred. So 
Ms J felt as though  she had to do something  before  those funds  were  absorbed  by 
provider Bs charges.  Unfortunately, Ms J was persuaded by an unregulated 
introducer to invest these funds into SCS Farmland.
It could not see how the change of investment from the intended Dominican Republic 
property to SCS Farmland should  have any bearing on the redress  Ms J should 
receive from Blackstar.
Blackstar added:
Ms J accepts  the fact that a different financial business was involved in her thinking  
from an early  stage.  It was not aware  of the different financial businesses 
involvement at any point in time until after Ms J placed the trade directly with the 
SIPP provider. This was further  supported  by the fact that Ms J completed  the SCS 
farmland paperwork along with the SIPP provider requirements and either submitted 
it directly, or via the different financial business.
Blackstar were  never at any point made aware  of Ms Js interest in SCS Farmland.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J complains that Blackstar gave her inappropriate advice to transfer the proceeds of her 
personal pension  arrangement to a SIPP. It seems to be accepted  that the transfer of 
benefits took place despite the fact that there was some doubt  as to whether or not Ms J 
would go ahead and complete the purchase. Also, the transfer value itself was not large 
enough to complete the purchase of the Dominican  Republic property on its own.
Blackstars final response letter said that Ms J was in the process of selling a buy to let 
investment property and that upon the sale, some of the sale proceeds would be paid into 
the SIPP which would enable the investment to proceed if required.
Blackstars report said that the proposed SIPP was more expensive than both Ms Js current  
plan and also a stakeholder plan.  
I dont think the transfer should have been  recommended. It was not clear that Ms J would 
actually go ahead with the investment and it was not clear that there would be sufficient 
funds to complete  the intended investment. It seems  to have  been  conditional on a property 
sale. In my view, there was no need to set up the SIPP  until it was clear  that Ms J wanted to, 
and could proceed with the investment.
There seems  to be no real dispute about the fact that Blackstar did not give Ms J any advice 
to invest in SCS Farmland.  It appears  that Blackstar  originally arranged the transfer in 
preparation for a different investment but Ms J subsequently invested in SCS Farmland 
instead. She has said that she was unable to sell her buy to let property and so didnt raise 
the additional capital she needed  to make the planned investment.
Ref: DRN97184064Ms Js representatives say that as her pension fund had already been transferred, she felt 
that she had to do something with that money before it was absorbed by annual  
management fees. Unfortunately, it says, Ms J was persuaded  by an unregulated  introducer 
to invest these funds  into SCS Farmland. It could not see how the change of investment to 
SCS Farmland should have any bearing on the redress Ms J should receive from Blackstar.
As I have said, Blackstar should  not have recommended the SIPP transfer. Not only was the 
transfer premature  but the intended investment was an unregulated collective investment 
scheme. I dont think it was a suitable investment for the whole of Ms Js personal pension.  
Blackstar could not recommend  the SIPP without considering the underlying  investment. The 
intended investment  was too risky in my view.
But it was not the intended investment that caused the loss. That investment didnt proceed. 
Ms J decided to invest in a different investment vehicle but there  is no evidence that 
Blackstar had any involvement in the choice  of that investment. It seems  that Ms J received 
further advice  from another party which may have  been unregulated   although she has 
referred to taking a complaint to the FSCS  and the SIPP  provider also allowed the 
purchase knowing that it was being  completed on a non-advised  basis.
So although  Blackstars  actions  could be said to have set these events in motion, Im not 
satisfied that it caused  the losses arising from the failed investment.  I agree with the 
adjudicator that the losses for which it is responsible should be limited. 
I consider that Blackstar are only liable for losses  between the date of the pension transfer 
and the date of the SCS Farmland  investment.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd must calculate and pay 
redress as set out below. Blackstar should  undertake the following loss assessment  and if a 
loss is identified pay redress to Ms J:
A. Ask the personal  pension product provider (provider A) to calculate what  the notional  
transfer value  of Ms Js personal pension policy would have been (assuming that she had 
not transferred)  to the date when Ms Js SIPP invested in SCS Farmland.
B. Find out what the value  of Ms Js SIPP was at the same  date as in A above.
C. If the notional  transfer value  (in A above) is higher than the SIPP  transfer value (in B 
above), then the difference represents  the loss and will be payable as redress.
Ref: DRN97184065If there is a loss then interest should  be added  at 8 per cent simple from the date of the SCS 
investment to the date of settlement. If for any reason it is not possible to augment  Ms Js 
SIPP with any identified  redress,  Blackstar should pay that amount to Ms J after making a 
notional deduction  for tax at her likely marginal rate in retirement. It should be assumed that 
she will be a basic  rate tax payer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9718406