K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given by Finance Shop Ltd to transfer several  
personal pensions  he held to a drawdown plan. He was then advised to withdraw funds and 
invest in other vehicles, including a Venture  Capital Trust (VCT). The drawdown resulted in a 
reduction to Mr Ms money  purchase annual allowance. 
background
Mr M already had an existing relationship with Finance Shop when he, and his accountant, 
met with it in April/May  2014 to discuss his pension  arrangements. 
The fact find and suitability report completed at the time for retirement planning recorded 
that:
Mr M was 61 years  old, married and employed  as the Director of his own business, 
drawing an income  of about  £21,000  per annum. 
He held £174,455 in personal pension plans with P. These had a projected annual 
pension at 65 of £10,500.
His desired income at his intended  retirement age of 65 was £20,000. He was also 
due to receive his State Pension  at that age.
He didnt have  a current need  for income and he had significant  other  assets that, 
alongside his state pension, would  give him sufficient income in retirement.
He currently held investments and pensions  which involved risk and he understood 
the concept of risk and reward.
His main property was worth £430,000 and he had another  property worth £250,000. 
He had an outstanding mortgage of £60,000.
He had other assets worth around  £170,000,  which included £53,000 in savings.
He had a balance attitude  to risk (ATR) - Finance Shop risk category 4 out of 7.
The report  stated that Mr M had asked the adviser  to restrict the advice to retirement  
planning  specifically for Mr M to draw benefits  from his pension. It also said that as part of 
your ongoing  tax planning,  and given the fact that your current  pension arrangements  are 
not important  when it comes to providing  the required income in retirement, we have 
discussed a totally  different  strategy whereby we look to phase  out your pension benefits, 
utilising additional  income tax planning  vehicles such as VCT() with a view to then putting 
the monies in your ISA and investment bond  contracts in order to achieve, not only the 
potential additional  income tax planning associated with VCT()but more  flexibility  and 
control over your investment, the ability to provide a more tax efficient additional income in 
retirement importantly minimise  the effect of any taxation upon  death().  
Ref: DRN93922752Mr Ms requirements were noted  as:
1 You do not need to withdraw  the maximum tax free cash  available from your pension  
in one lump sum
2 You wish to have the flexibility to increase  and decrease your income to suit your 
requirements
3 You wish to have increased  options  upon your death for your partner
4 You wish to remain  invested in the stock-market  to benefit from future potential 
growth
5 You wish to defer buying an annuity with this proportion of your pension fund as you 
do not want to be locked into current rates
6 You would  like the ability to take an initial income which  is higher than is available 
from purchasing an annuity
7 You wish to minimise the tax payable on your income
8 You wish to maintain the maximum death  benefits on your plan as much as possible
Mr M already held an investment ISA and Investment bond  in a wrap  account with a firm Ill 
refer to as N. So Finance  Shop recommended that Mr M move his existing pensions  into a 
phased drawdown  plan to be held within Ns wrap  account. It also advised Mr M to draw a 
net income of £20,000, once the transfer had completed.  Finance Shop recommended  that 
the remaining  funds  be invested using the Finance Shop Wealth  Management Service  
(FSWS) in the Multi-Asset Balanced Growth  portfolio. The fees payable were detailed  in the 
report as: 
3% initial  fee
Ns platform charge of 0.35% pa 
The fund (portfolio) costs of 0.85% pa
Finance Shops on-going fee of 1% pa which included  the additional cost of 0.25% pa  
for the FSWS. 
The transfer of Mr Ms personal  pensions  into Ns drawdown plan took place on 1 July 2014.  
And the £20,000  withdrawal was paid. 
Shortly after Mr Ms funds were  drawn  from his plan with N, another  suitability  report  was 
issued, dated  14 August  2014. This noted  that Finance Shop had been asked to restrict its 
advice to Investment advice  specifically to invest a lump sum for growth in the future. The 
report confirmed that Mr Ms present income  was sufficient  for his needs and he wished to 
invest £7,705.37  in a General Account and top up his ISA by £3,120.   The report said that 
Mr M was happy to invest for five years and again, as documented in the initial report, Mr M 
was assessed  as having a balanced  ATR. 
Finance Shop recommended that Mr M invest £3,120 in his current stocks  and shares  ISA 
held within  Ns wrap  and place the remaining £7,706.37  to an OEIC  (open ended investment 
company) or Unit Trust Portfolio.  
A further  fact find was completed in August 2015. This noted  that Mr M wanted to discuss his 
retirement planning as he had an employer  lump sum to invest.  And hed also like to access 
some of his pension benefits  to invest in other tax efficient products. 
Ref: DRN93922753Much of the information  recorded on the fact find was the same  as the year before with the 
exception of the following: 
Mr Ms savings  and investments had increased  in value to around £288,000
His mortgage had increased to £68,000
In terms of his pension, Mr M still had a balanced ATR, risk category 4 out of 7. But 
he was classed as a specialist investor, so risk category  7 out of 7, when it came to 
the VCT. 
Again, there were separate suitability reports for the retirement planning  and investment 
advice. The first retirement planning report,  dated  11 August 2015,  stated  that it was to be 
read in conjunction with the report dated 19 May 2014, which  had recommended  the phased  
drawdown plan with N. It also said that Mr M had an employer contribution of £20,000 to pay 
into his pension with N. 
The retirement planning report dated 27 August 2015, set out Finance Shops 
recommendation that Mr M start to draw benefits  from his plan via flexi access  drawdown, 
utilising Ns wrap. The report  said that Mr M wished to access more of his pension benefits  
and re-invest the money  in other  tax efficient  investments. At the time Mr Ms pension 
benefits were valued at £122,660.24. The report said that he wished to move  £86,778  to flexi 
access drawdown, taking  a one off income payment of £30,000 before tax. The report  
explained that drawing these funds  would trigger the Money Purchase Annual  Allowance. 
The report  also set out the fees. These  were  noted  as: 
3% initial  fee
Ns platform charge of 0.35% pa 
The fund (portfolio) costs of 0.84% pa
Finance Shops on-going fee of 1% pa which included  the additional cost of 0.25% pa  
for the FSWS. 
On 15 September  2015, an Investment/Tax  planning report  was issued to Mr M. The report 
confirmed that the advice  was covering investments,  specifically to invest  a lump sum for 
growth/income for the future whilst offsetting  income tax in the current tax year. The report  
stated that: 
Mr M currently  had in excess of £100,000 in liquid cash, large sums of monies 
invested and circa  £200,000+ in pension investments.
Hed made additional company pension contributions to reduce  his Corporation Tax 
liability, and was now deducting funds from his pension.
Part of this strategy was to utilise some VCT investment,  to not only further diversify 
the overall portfolio, but to provide additional  Income tax relief to allow income tax to 
be reclaimed and/or deduct additional  "taxable" sums from the pension.
Mr M had a reasonable  understanding of various investment/tax planning  
opportunities, and was aware that by using part of his annual  VCT allowance, in this 
case £20,000, hed be able to offset  a further £6,000 in income  tax due in the current 
tax year,  (or use this relief by taking additional sums  from his pension contract).
Mr M had liquid capital; therefore  he was comfortable setting  this money  aside in a 
more specialist approach in order to obtain  the tax advantages  associated with these 
areas of investment.
Mr M had confirmed  he wished to invest £20,000  for at least 5 years,  that he didnt 
require an income at that time and that he was happy to invest for growth.
Ref: DRN93922754Regarding Mr Ms capacity for fluctuation  of capital i.e, the ability to absorb significant 
losses of capital,  he confirmed that a significant  (eg more than 25%)  loss of capital 
value would have  some impact on his overall financial position and hed need to 
review his situation.
Mr M had chosen the Specialist Investor risk category for this investment (Finance 
Shop Category  7 out of 7). This was the same level as his existing tax planning 
investments and he felt that this profile  was appropriate because he could afford  to 
put this sum of capital at risk given his overall  wealth.  
The adviser recommended that Mr M utilise £20,000  of his VCT annual allowance for that 
tax year by investing in the Octopus Apollo Venture  Capital  Trust. This had an initial fee of 
2.5% of the amount  invested, with a 2% fee being paid annually.  In addition, an annual 
performance fee would  be payable once  the VCT reached a certain level of total return. In 
terms of adviser fees, the report set out an initial fee of 2.5%, with an ongoing fee of 0.5%.
On 22 October 2015, an Investment Planning Addendum report  was issued to Mr M for his 
ISA and General  Account top ups. This report was to be read in conjunction with the original 
investment planning report  dated  13 August 2014.  It said that the advice was specifically for 
Mr M to invest two lump sums for growth in the future, following his payment of tax free cash  
and income from his N drawdown plan. It was recommended that £15,240 was invested in 
Mr Ms ISA which would use his allowance for that year. And the remaining £10,454.50 was 
to be placed in Mr Ms General Account. Again, this report noted that Mr M didnt require an 
income at that time, and that he was happy to invest for growth for 5 years. For this 
transaction Mr M was classed as having a balanced attitude to risk.  The report confirmed 
that there  was an initial 3% advice fee and ongoing  fees of 2.19%.
On 29 March  2016  a further  investment  planning  report  was issued,  which  was again  to 
be read in conjunction  with the report  dated  13 August  2014.  This confirmed  that the 
advice  was limited  to topping  up the General  Account  with N with an additional  £50,000.   
Again, this report noted that Mr M didnt require  an income at that time and that he was 
happy to invest  for growth for 5 years. For this transaction Mr M was classed as having a 
balanced ATR. And as with the top up in October  2015, Mr M paid an initial advice fee for 
the top up of 3% and ongoing  fees of 2.19%.
In July 2017, Mr M complained to Finance Shop about the advice  hed been  given over the 
past few years. In summary he complained  that: 
Hed been used  to generate income  for Finance Shop and his accountant.
Being  dyslexic, he struggles with written reports,  so he was shocked recently when 
the reports were read out to him, they imply he was requesting the transactions,  as 
opposed to being  advised by Finance Shop and his accountant.
The reports had been separated as if they were  unconnected transactions,  yet the 
advice was delivered at the same time.
There was clear  evidence of churning. Hed been advised to put money into his 
pension, draw it down  via flexi access drawdown and then reinvest the proceeds  to 
get the tax back,  which he wouldnt have had to pay, had he not drawn  the money 
from his pension. 
As a result  of moving to flexi access drawdown,  his annual allowance  has now 
reduced. Whilst this may have been mentioned  in the report it was never  explained to 
him verbally. 
Ref: DRN93922755Hed been sold a tax avoidance scheme  in 2012, something he didnt understand 
until it was recently  explained  to him. 
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary it said that: 
It wasnt responsible for the advice given regarding the tax avoidance scheme.
It was aware that Mr M was dyslexic and the adviser  had always explained every part 
of the advice process before the reports were issued, which Mr Ms secretary would 
check and read to him.
There were  separate reports for the different  elements of advice, as this was what it 
deemed to be more easily understandable.
The fact that it produced separate reports for what was an overall  strategy to monitor  
the performance of Mr Ms funds,  and wherever possible minimise  his tax liability, 
doesnt constitute churning.
The recommendation to enter flexi access drawdown met Mr Ms needs.  And the 
overall strategy was to enable Mr M to take advantage of the benefits,  but not to 
suffer more tax liability than was necessary.
It was documented  and explained that Mr Ms money purchase annual  allowance  
(MPAA) would reduce after he entered drawdown.  And it was Mr Ms intention  that he 
would access his benefits; not contribute  further as he was looking to exit his 
business. So it wasnt deemed detrimental.
Mr M suffered a tax loss because he wanted to gain access  to his pension  fund. 
However, the VCT meant that additional  income  tax relief  would be obtained.
Making additional company contributions to the pension was to reduce  Mr Ms 
Corporation Tax liability.
Its not unusual  for investors to have a different attitude to risk with different  
investments.
Mr M was unhappy with Finance Shops response  to the complaint  so he referred the matter 
to this service for consideration. During a conversation with our adjudicator,  Mr M confirmed 
that the crux of his complaint was:
Sale of Flexible  Drawdown
Sale of VCT
Abuse  of trust due to Mr Ms dyslexia  and resulting inability to understand complex 
financial issues 
Ability to put money into pensions which also adversely affects the future  inheritance 
tax due on his estate
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought  it should  be upheld as the 
advice was unsuitable.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr M had an income need that necessitated entering into 
drawdown from his pension at that point in time. And by recommending that he drawdown,  
Finance Shop reduced Mr Ms flexibility in terms of future tax planning, this action having 
reduced his pension annual allowance.
The adjudicator also felt that it wasnt suitable  advice to recommend that Mr M withdrew 
money from his pension funds to re-invest  into a VCT, which he thought was beyond  Mr Ms 
appetite for risk.
Ref: DRN93922756Finance Shop didnt agree with the adjudicator  and presented its reasons, along  with a new 
statement from Mr Ms former accountant, giving his account of Mr Ms circumstances and 
needs at that time.  
In summary  Finance  Shop  said:
the adjudicators  opinion  didnt  take account  of Mr Ms wealth outside  of the pension 
which, in its view,  was capable  of maintaining his standard  of living in retirement
the reason  for phasing money from the pension was for tax planning purposes and 
Mr M was at the time trying to reduce his pension holdings
although Mr M had an overall  attitude  to risk of balanced, this shouldnt  prevent 
diversification within his portfolio that allowed investments that were higher or lower  
risk than the majority of his investments
Mr M had held meetings with other  advisers, having been  involved in transactions  in 
tax strategies that later failed with HMRC
The adjudicator reviewed Finance Shops arguments but he didnt think Mr Ms other  wealth 
was a reason  to give up the money  in his existing pensions, which  in the advisers opinion  
provided a good  base,  along with his state  pension to meet his required standard  of living 
once he did retire.
The adjudicator also thought Finance Shop shouldve given consideration to drawdown 
when Mr M had actually retired when an income need might have existed. This was because 
Mr M was still working with no plans to retire any time soon.
Finance Shop maintains  that the advice it provided was suitable and so the matter  has been  
passed to me to reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
the adjudicators  findings  for broadly the same reasons.
The main  points of complaint  that Mr M brought to this service, and which  I am focussing  on, 
relate to advice regarding Mr M moving  his pension to drawdown and the resulting 
implications of this. And the advice to take out the VCT.  
Finance Shop also arranged for Mr Ms wrap with N to be set up and for his ISA and 
Investment bond to be transferred to N. But Mr M hasnt asked this service to consider  any 
concerns regarding this advice.
I appreciate that when  Mr M initially complained  to Finance Shop he mentioned  advice 
relating to a tax avoidance scheme.  Finance  Shop  has explained that it wasnt  involved in 
this being set up; it was arranged by Mr Ms former accountant and another  adviser.  In any 
event, it didnt form part of the complaint referred to our service so Im not going to be 
considering any concerns  about the tax avoidance  scheme in this decision. 
Ref: DRN93922757Abuse of inability to understand  complex  financial issues due to dyslexia
While I note Mr M has dyslexia and that this may have contributed to him not fully 
understanding the rationale for advice when documented  in written format, Ive not seen  any 
evidence that the business has taken advantage of this. So Ive made my decision based on 
whether I consider the advice to be suitable or not. 
Advice to move pensions  with P and start drawing benefits via phased drawdown
In May 2014, Mr M was advised to transfer four pension plans he held with P, to his existing  
wrap with N, so he could start to access the benefits  via phased drawdown,  otherwise known 
as capped drawdown. The total amount transferred was in excess of £176,000. Mr M was 
advised to move £66,777.96 to capped drawdown,  and draw  £20,000  (TFC  - £16,694.49  and 
income - £4,131.88  gross).
The suitability report stated that this was part of an overall strategy to phase out Mr Ms 
pension benefits,  with a view to putting money in ISAs and Investment  Bond contracts. The 
report said this would  achieve additional  income tax planning associated  with VCTs and also 
give Mr M more  flexibility and control  over his investments. And it would provide a more  tax 
efficient income in retirement,  minimise  taxation on death and stop his fund being used to 
purchase an annuity. 
Ive thought carefully about this. Firstly, I note both Finance Shop and Mr Ms accountant 
have suggested  in their recent statements that Mr M was intending  to retire when he 
received advice in 2014. However,  Ive not seen anything in the sales paperwork to support 
this being imminent  at the time of advice.  In fact, the paperwork suggests that Mr M was 
looking to retire at the age of 65, so not for at least another  three or so years.  And I note that 
Mr M is in fact still working now and he, his secretary and his new accountant  have all 
confirmed that he has no intention of retiring. So, although I think  its likely Mr M may have 
said he wanted to get himself  in a good  position for when he retires, Ive not seen enough to 
support Finance Shops  statement that Mr M wanted  to exit his business at the earliest 
opportunity. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr M didnt require any income at the time of advice in 2014.  So, with 
retirement a few years off, the move  to drawdown seems somewhat premature. The sole 
purpose for this recommendation appears to be so Mr M could faze out his pension  benefits. 
This wouldnt usually  be considered suitable  advice, particularly when the pensions with P 
appear to have represented  Mr Ms entire  pension provision, other than his state pension 
entitlement.  However,  Finance  Shops  says that Mr Ms pensions werent important when 
considering his considerable wealth outside of his pension. 
The sales  paperwork  noted  that Mr Ms home  was worth £450,000 and he had another  
property and land.  Finance Shop  appears to have included these when  considering Mr Ms 
overall wealth but I dont  think  these assets  (the houses and the land) shouldve been taken 
into account when  considering what Mr M would be relying on to provide him with an income 
in retirement. I appreciate  that Mr M had mentioned  that he was considering selling  or 
developing the land. But there  was nothing to suggest this was definitely happening.  And 
even if there  had been fixed plans in place for the land, it wasnt known at the time what sort 
of income selling or developing the land would generate. I do acknowledge that Mr M had 
other investments and savings worth around £165,000, But in my view, these werent 
substantial enough  to suggest that Mr Ms pension plans wouldnt play be an important role 
in meeting his income needs in retirement. 
Ref: DRN93922758I also note that the suitability  report is contradictory  when it comes  to how Mr Ms pension fits 
in to his retirement  planning. The report initially states that Mr M doesnt need  to take an 
income from his pension, you have built up large  funds  of personal investment to 
comfortably fund your lifestyle in retirement  and your current pension  arrangements are not 
important. It also says that Mr M wants to use his funds  to invest. However,  later on in the 
report, income is noted as an objective, You would like the ability to take an initial income 
which is higher than is available from purchasing an annuity.
Like the adjudicator,  I think  the pension plans with P provided a good base for meeting 
Mr Ms target income  in retirement of £20,000. And I dont consider moving  the pensions  
away from P and into drawdown  was necessary  in 2014, nor was it in Mr Ms best interest.   
Although, this particular  recommendation to take some funds under capped  drawdown didnt 
trigger the MPAA, there was no obvious  reason why Mr M needed to access any funds  from 
his pension at that point  in time.  Mr M didnt  need any income and it appears that almost half 
of what was drawn at that time was left as cash and not reinvested.  
Ive thought about the overall  strategy  of phasing  out Mr Ms pension  benefits by drawing the 
funds and reinvesting them in other tax efficient vehicles. But I cant see how this was of 
benefit to Mr M at the time of advice in 2014, particularly as he was still earning.  And I think  it 
wouldve been more  suitable advice to delay drawing benefits until he had no other  income, 
in order to pay as little tax as possible  on his withdrawals.
In 2015, Mr M was advised  to make a one off contribution from his company into his 
pension. He was then advised  to take £21,694.50 as TFC and £30,000 (gross) as flexi 
access income. Again, for the same reasons Ive previously explained, I can see no benefit 
to Mr M withdrawing money from his fund as his circumstances  hadnt changed; he didnt 
need an income and he was still working. Moreover,  by taking flexi income from his pension  
Mr M incurred a tax charge and he triggered the MPAA. So it actually had several 
disadvantages, the most significant  being the removal of any ability to make significant  
pension contributions in the future. 
Mr M had managed to accrue a pension pot of over £175,000, so he clearly  had a history of 
making substantial  pension contributions. And this was evidenced  by the one off contribution  
only a few weeks earlier from his company.  The MPAA at that time was set at £10,000  and 
subsequently reduced to £4,000 - which was half of the recent  contribution Mr M had made. 
Mr M was still going to be working  for at least two more years. So, I dont  think  it could be 
said with any certainty,  at the time of advice, that he wouldnt have further funds  to invest  in 
his pension. And while the MPAA  was noted in the suitability report, theres no evidence to 
suggest that there was a detailed discussion around what this actually meant in terms of 
Mr M making  future  contributions and how he intended to move  money out of his company 
going forward.
I appreciate that, due to a subsequent tax bill, Mr M may not have actually had additional  
funds to pay into his pension but that wasnt known at the time of advice.  
Because I dont think it was necessary  for Mr M to move  to drawdown, Ive also thought 
about the advice he received to move  his plans with P to the wrap with N.  
Ref: DRN93922759I can see that there were  advantages to Mr M having his pension  and investments being 
managed on one platform.  For example,  it gave  him wider investment choices and access to 
FSWM service. But theres nothing in the paperwork Ive seen to suggest  that this is 
something Mr M was looking for. Nor is there any evidence that Finance Shop investigated 
the possibility  of fund switches in his existing arrangement,  if Mr M was unhappy with how 
his existing plans  with P were performing. 
By moving  his plans  when he did, Mr M had to pay outstanding  charges  on his plans with P, 
which reduced his transfer value by just over £2,000.  In addition, although there are no 
details in the suitability report regarding Mr Ms existing plans, I think  its likely he was 
moving to a more  expensive product  than his existing plans with P. For a start the wrap  with 
N had an initial fee, Ns platform charge,  Portfolio  costs  and Finance Shops  on-going  fee. 
Ive not been provided with any information to suggest that Finance Shop compared  Mr Ms 
existing arrangement with P against  the new arrangement to see whether he was likely to be 
better off by transferring. 
Finance Shop stated in the suitability report that drawdown was almost 1% per annum 
cheaper with N, then it was with P. But Im not satisfied that drawdown was necessary for 
Mr M at that time.  And so I think  he was moved to a more expensive product when he didnt 
need to be. He could  have left his plans  where they were with P until he reached retirement  
and had a need to start taking his benefits.  
I appreciate that Mr M may have wished  to reduce any tax liability he might have in 
retirement. And I note that Finance Shop says that he didnt wish to make any further 
contributions to his pensions.  So, Finance Shop says these objectives were the main reason 
for the strategy it recommended. However, this wasnt a situation where Mr M was simply 
giving Finance Shop an instruction. He went to Finance Shop for advice and it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that any advice it gave  him was suitable. And in providing that 
advice, it needed  to make sure that it didnt just facilitate  what  Mr M, or his accountant, 
thought he might like to do. Mr Ms objectives  needed to be considered and weighed up 
against what was suitable. 
I think it would have  been more suitable to have advised Mr M to continue making 
contributions to his pension  while he was still working and had his company. Any strategies 
for reducing  his tax liability  couldve been implemented once Mr M had actually retired. Im 
not satisfied that it was in Mr Ms best interest to transfer his pensions  when he did. 
Advice to invest in the VCT
The VCT was a higher risk investment  and above  Mr Ms usual risk tolerance.  It seems this 
was mainly recommended as part of the overall strategy because of the tax benefits it would 
provide, as a way of cancelling out the tax Mr M had had to pay by drawing funds from his 
pension.  
Ive already said above, that I dont think it was appropriate  for Mr M to start drawing benefits 
from his pension when  he did. As such,  I dont believe  the investment in the VCT was 
suitable. I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, it wasnt  in Mr Ms interest to take a 
significant level of risk for the purpose of obtaining  a tax benefit. There was a chance  that he 
could lose all or a large part of his capital. 
Ref: DRN939227510Finance Shop has referred to Mr M entering  into a tax avoidance  scheme. It considers this is 
evidence that he was prepared to take a greater degree of risk when it came to his tax 
planning. However, Im not persuaded that entering into any such scheme  can be interpreted  
as meaning that Mr M was generally  prepared to take a greater risk with his pension fund. 
And again, as Ive said above, even if Mr M had said he wanted to take a risk, it was for 
Finance Shop to weigh this up against  what was suitable advice. In any event, Im not 
satisfied that Mr M did want to take a risk. I think this is supported by his email to Finance 
Shop on 22 May 2014. While this email was in relation to advice provided  the previous  year,  
I think the comments are still relevant. In the email Mr M says My aim for my future is not to 
leave money to anyone else but to have enough  money to live on and buy whatever I want. 
Obviously I don't want to pay more  tax than I have to but security of my money is very 
important to me. What  security does this policy give me?. 
I can see why Mr M would want to take advantage of an investment with obvious tax 
benefits. But I dont  think such  benefits justified the recommendation of a high risk 
investment. I appreciate  the adviser described  the risks involved but I dont believe it was an 
appropriate recommendation in the first place and the inclusion of such warnings wouldnt in 
my view make it a suitable investment. Finance Shop argues that Mr M was prepared to 
accept a different  level of risk for his tax planning.  But given his comments  that Ive 
referenced above,  Im not persuaded that was the case. Looking at Mr Ms investment 
history, he appears  to have been prepared  to take a medium level of risk and was actually 
recorded as having a cautious level of risk in 2011 and 2012, when his relationship with 
Finance Shop first started.  
Considering Finance Shop was providing  advice on the basis that Mr M was due to retire in 
three years time, I consider it unsuitable to recommend an investment beyond  his appetite 
for risk at that stage of his pre-retirement  plans.  I would  usually  expect to see an element of 
de-risking of the portfolio in the lead up to retirement  to reduce fluctuations in value.
Whilst I recognise that the business recommended other investments more  in line with       
Mr Ms ATR,  I find the overall strategy employed  by Finance Shop on the whole to be 
unsuitable. It exposed  Mr M to additional fees and costs in the run up to his retirement, and 
limited what he was able to pay into his pension going forward.  
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  Finance Shop do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Finance Shop must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN939227511Finance Shop should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Finance Shop should pay into Mr M's pension  plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Finance Shop  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension  plan,  it should  
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would  have been  able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £250 for the advice received resulting in a reduced  pension input 
allowance.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Finance Shop deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Finance Shop  
should give Mr M a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
N pension 
and 
subsequent 
re-
investment 
(including 
VCTs, 
Investment 
Bond & 
ISAs)transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  IndexPlan value at 
the date of 
transfer from 
previous 
personal 
pensionsDate 
transferred  
from N to 
new providerAny loss should  
be bought up to 
date using the 
benchmark 
FTSE UK 
Private Investors 
Income  Total 
Return  Index 
from the date of 
transfer from N 
until the date of 
settlement. 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Ref: DRN939227512fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Finance Shop totals all those payments and deducts  that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Finance Shop Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Finance Shop Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9392275