K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  unfairly declined his buildings insurance 
claim. 
background
In mid-March 2019 Mr T made a claim to UKI under his buildings insurance policy  when a  
boundary wall in his garden  collapsed following a storm.  The boundary wall adjoins a public 
pavement and caused damage to his neighbours car.
UKI sent a surveyor to assess  the damage  a few days later.  When discussing the features of 
the wall, Mr T explained to the surveyor that it was built over thirty years before. 
UKI declined  Mr Ts claim towards  the end of March. It said amongst other  things that it had 
taken account  of weather reports and the surveyors report and photographs. Overall, UKI 
felt that the evidence showed the foundations  of the wall had been damaged  over time 
(although it noted  in its records  that it couldnt  fully check  as the damaged  wall had been  
moved to a safe place) and that the storm winds  had simply highlighted the existing damage.  
UKI also noted that it would have expected some of the foundations to remain in place if 
theyd been damaged in a storm. So, it relied  on the gradually operating damage exclusion  
within the policy when  declining the claim. UKI suggested that Mr T could obtain an impartial 
builders report for the claims  team to consider  if he wanted to. It also invited Mr T to 
complain to this service if he wasnt happy with its response.  
Mr T complained to us in May 2019.  Amongst other things, he said that there was evidence 
of the cement  mortar still being  in good condition because the majority  of it was still attached 
to the bricks. Our investigator  looked into Mr Ts complaint and felt that UKI had acted fairly 
in declining the claim. The investigator  felt that the storm conditions  had highlighted an 
existing weakness  in the wall, so he didnt  think it unfair or unreasonable for UKI to rely on 
the exclusion relating to gradually operating damage when declining the claim.  
Mr T provided further explanation for our investigator to consider. In particular, he said that 
the reason the wall collapsed at the bed joint was because the whole wall was held together  
with structural mesh and piers set at 1.5 metres apart. The investigator took account  of 
Mr Ts comments.  But, overall, he was still satisfied  that UKIs decision was fair in the 
circumstances. 
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
I sent Mr T and UKI my provisional  findings  on 3 April 2020 and said why I was intending to 
uphold the complaint. Ive included the relevant sections of my reasoning below.
my provisional findings
Mr T told us that hed been insured  with UKI for over 25 years without ever having  made  a 
claim. And he says he thought he was fully insured  in the event of a storm or unexpected 
damage, so hes unhappy  that UKI wouldnt pay his claim given the circumstances  he 
described. I can appreciate Mr Ts point.
It might help to explain that insurance  policies dont cover every eventuality and are 
designed to offer cover against  certain defined risks.  But I can see that Mr Ts policy  does 
Ref: DRN96418962cover for loss or damage as a result of a storm, or accidental  damage thats unexpected. 
The policy terms dont provide cover for damage that happens  over time. This is usually 
referred to as wear  and tear.
When considering  complaints  that relate to storm damage,  well generally consider three key 
questions:
Are we satisfied  that storm  conditions occurred  on or around  the time that the 
damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I dont think the answer to the first two questions is in dispute. I say that because  when 
making its decision, UKI pointed out that it had taken account of weather reports for Mr Ts 
local area. And Ive seen  in its claim notes that these reports described winds  of up to 
57mph. So, UKI appears to have been  satisfied that storm conditions  were present and that 
the type of damage caused  to Mr Ts wall could  be consistent with the type of damage 
caused by a storm. 
But UKI wasnt satisfied  that the damage to the wall was mainly  caused by the storm. 
I can see that UKI instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage and to assess  whats likely   
to have caused it. And, in the surveyors professional  opinion,  the storm had highlighted an 
existing weakness  in the wall. I should  say that its not for me to comment on or question  the 
surveyors professional  opinion. And I can see why UKI would want  to instruct a surveyor,   
as its unlikely to be an expert in building matters. I can also appreciate  why UKI would want 
to take account  of the surveyors opinion when making its decision. 
But I need to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case.  
And that includes whether UKI also took full account  of other information it had, including 
what Mr T had to say and the circumstances leading up to the claim. And, having thought 
about that, Im not persuaded that UKI did make a fair decision that took account  of all 
relevant factors. 
I say that because before Mr T made his claim,  theres no evidence  to suggest  he knew  of 
any problems with his wall. And Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to expect him 
to know of any potential  problems that may have been underground and inaccessible.  
The fact that the wall had stood for over 30 years  suggests that it had also been able to 
withstand normal UK weather conditions without issue.
But a storm  is an extreme weather condition. And Mr T had taken care to insure his buildings 
against such conditions,  so I think its entirely reasonable for him to assume that hed be 
able to rely on the terms of his policy when he needed to. And despite accepting  that 
extreme weather conditions were in force  immediately before the wall collapsed  and the 
damage was consistent with storm conditions, UKI relied on an exclusion that didnt provide 
cover when the damage is considered  gradual (wear and tear) rather than a clause that does 
provide cover for storm damage. I dont think thats fair and Ill explain why. 
As Ive said,  before  the storm, Mr Ts wall was standing without issue. And I think its highly 
likely that had the storm not happened  when it did, Mr Ts wall is likely to have remained 
intact for some time to come. But I havent seen any evidence that UKI thought  about  this 
when making its decision.  
Ref: DRN96418963I can also see that part of UKIs decision was that, due to the age of the wall, the mortar  
wasnt visible at the foundations. So UKI seemed to suggest (even  though it accepted it 
couldnt fully check) that that wasnt consistent with a one-off event. But Mr T says the 
mortar remained  firmly  attached to a large proportion of the bricks  which  he suggests is 
indicative of the mortar  being in good condition. Theres nothing  to show UKI specifically 
thought about Mr Ts comments when  making  its decision. Mr T also says he pointed out 
errors in some of the information  included  in the surveyors report, but UKI simply said it had 
to rely on the information it was given. Whilst I accept that UKI did give Mr T an opportunity 
to provide another expert  report (and theres  no evidence that he did that) Id have expected 
UKI to first show  it had considered all relevant information it had.
I think its difficult to dispute that there would be some wear and tear to a wall that had been 
standing for over 30 years. But the key issue here is whether it was wear  and tear, or the 
storm, that was the main  cause of the damage. And, as Ive outlined, I think  UKI had enough 
other evidence to suggest that the damage  was likely to have been caused  by the storm. 
And, given  that, I dont  think  it was fair or reasonable for UKI to rely on a policy exclusion, 
which says that it wont  provide  cover for damage thats considered  gradual.    
And, for all of the reasons  Ive set out above, Im intending  to direct UKI to settle  Mr Ts claim 
and pay him 8% simple  interest from the date of the claim  to the date of final settlement.  
In addition, I think UKI should  pay £150  compensation  to Mr T for the inconvenience hes 
suffered in his claim not being settled  sooner.
response to my provisional  decision
Both Mr T and UKI responded to my provisional  decision. 
Mr T told me that UKIs assessor  completed only a cursory inspection  of the damaged  wall. 
And he explained again that after the wall had fallen,  there were large amounts of debris. 
Mr T says the existing gateway  pier is still standing, which he appears to suggest  is 
indicative of it being structurally sound.  Mr T also says he sought  the opinion  of other 
professionals who agreed  with him. 
UKI said that whilst  it accepts that there  were  winds of 57mph immediately before the wall 
collapsed, it doesnt  think that a wall that was structurally sound would have fallen in the way 
that it did. So, UKI thinks that the wall fell due to gradual deterioration and that the strong 
winds merely  highlighted that problem. UKI also said that the wall appeared to have been  
built directly on top of concrete in the driveway  and it thinks  theres  a lack of adhesion  at the 
wall head.   It added  that:
there  is evidence  of full brick which have come away  clean with the mortar  intact  in one side 
which again would suggest a lack of adhesion with the brick and area below, going by some  
of the staining from the mortar  and the brickwork it is likely these would have been from the 
lower courses showing the deterioration  that was suggested  by the visiting buildings  claims 
inspector. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the comments  
that UKI and Mr T made in response  to my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN96418964And having done that, Im not satisfied that any of the comments made would lead me to 
change my decision. Ill explain why. 
Amongst its comments, UKI said that the evidence  of staining would suggest deterioration at 
the lower courses  of the wall. And it also said it was entitled to accept a surveyors opinion 
(as neither I or UKI are qualified surveyors)  that the likely cause of the wall collapse  was 
deterioration rather than the storm.  
In my provisional decision I said was satisfied  that UKI sought a professionals opinion,  as 
that seems to me to be the right thing to do. And I also accepted  that it was highly likely  a 
wall built over 30 years before would have  suffered  some deterioration. But I didnt think  it 
was fair to expect Mr T to be aware of deterioration that might have being going on 
underground, particularly  as he hadnt  highlighted any other problems  before the storm. 
I remain of that view.
The fact remains that irrespective of whether there had been some  deterioration  over 
30 years-which is likely-I wasnt satisfied that UKI had properly thought about other relevant 
factors for the wall collapsing. And Im still not satisfied that UKI thought about the fact that 
the wall had stood  without issue for 30 years  before the storm- and its likely to have stood 
for several  more years to come had it not been for the storm. So, for those reasons, I think  it 
was unfair  for UKI to rely on a policy exclusion relating to wear and tear when other 
evidence suggests  that the storm was the main cause of the damage. I uphold this 
complaint. I think a fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for UKI to settle Mr Ts claim 
(together with 8% simple  interest on top) and pay him £150 compensation for the 
inconvenience hes suffered by UKI not settling his claim  sooner. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. I now direct U K Insurance Limited to: 
Settle Mr Ts claim and pay him 8% simple interest from the date of claim to the date 
of final settlement.
Pay Mr T £150 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience  hes suffered by 
UKI not settling his claim sooner
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9641896