K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limited.  They are not 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim  under  their car insurance policy.
background
I looked at this case and provided  my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr and Mrs Cs car was involved in an accident and they made  a claim under their car 
insurance policy in November 2018.  Unfortunately, the car had to be returned to the repairer 
on a number of occasions as it wasnt repaired to a satisfactory standard.
Admiral acknowledged  some of its failings here and paid about £380 in compensation to 
cover for the delay,  trouble  and upset caused. But even after Mr and Mrs C got the car back 
they suffered  further problems and complained to Admiral again.
All this went  on over a period of a few months and I can see that Mr and Mrs C withdrew 
their complaint as they didnt feel it was getting  anywhere on a few occasions.
But Admiral  did acknowledge that it got some  further things wrong  and offered to pay for a 
replacement wheel and a cash-in-lieu payment in relation to bumper  scratches amongst 
other things.  It also offered further compensation at different stages in acknowledgment of 
the continued stress,  delay and inconvenience that Mr and Mrs C had to face. It offered a 
total of £1,355 throughout the time it looked at the complaint up until October 2019.
But Mr and Mrs C remained  unhappy  about a number of issues - especially a problem 
relating to the car door. Admiral said this must have been caused in another  accident which 
must have  taken place  after the November 2018  accident. While Mr and Mrs C were later 
told that their car wasnt drivable because of the problem  with the A pillar and the drivers 
door.
Our investigator looked into things for them  and upheld the complaint. Although she 
accepted that some  of the issues with the car were either pre-existing or there was 
insufficient evidence  to say they were caused by the accident or the repairer. She was of the 
view that Admiral didnt  have any evidence to say that the car had been involved  in another  
accident to the same  area of the car; that the two damaged tyres were  most likely damaged 
at the garage  while testing or moving  the car; that Admiral should also pay for the misaligned 
bumper as well as the scratches (which Admiral had already accepted responsibility for); the 
repair of the bodywork that has dulled since the initial repair; repair of the wing mirror casing 
(not just a cash-in-lieu  payment); pay Mr and Mrs C the cost they had to pay to get the digital 
radio working again; pay the actual cost Mr and Mrs C paid for the new wheel; that it should  
have made  sure that Mr and Mrs C were  in a suitable car when theirs  went in for rectification 
work; that its level of service and claim handling was poor but that its offer of compensation 
was reasonable;  and that it should pay a number of other costs Mr and Mrs C incurred.
Although Admiral accepted some of its failings it didnt agree with the investigator.  And Mr C 
outlined his general agreement but highlighted his ongoing problem of not being  able to use 
his car and the difficulties this has caused him. So the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN93162082Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded to agree that 
this complaint should be upheld. But Im suggesting a slightly  different outcome and want to 
give both sides the chance to comment and provide  further evidence before I finalise my 
decision.
It has been a complex and drawn  out complaint  but as a lot of things have been  agreed  or 
moved forward I dont propose  to go over all the detail again.  Indeed  Mr C has indicated  his 
general agreement  with the investigators view.
Instead I will focus on the key outstanding issues and look to each party  to provide further  
detail/information in order that I can finalise  the complaint.
The main  issue is the fact that Mr and Mrs C cant use their car as the drivers door cant be 
used. Admiral maintains  that the car has been  involved in another accident since the 
accident of November 2018. But it doesnt  have any evidence to support this position and 
without any evidence I dont find its argument  persuasive. Although  I accept that the car has 
done just over 2000 miles since the incident  there  is absolutely no evidence  to suggest that 
the car has been  involved in another accident, and Id expect there to be.
Throughout this period  of time Mr and Mrs Cs car has been checked by a number of 
mechanics and engineers and there is no direct evidence that the car has been involved in 
another accident - in the exact same  place. It is more likely that the additional  problems, that 
appear to be causing  the difficulties now, were simply missed or poorly repaired initially.
Given the various other difficulties Mr and Mrs C have  faced  with the repair  of their car this 
seems most likely. So, I agree that Admiral should  have  repaired  all of the outstanding work 
to the A pillar,  door and wing of the car.
Turning to the other issues, as no pre-existing damage was identified in relation to the 
bumper alignment  when the car was first repaired.  I agree  that it is most likely  that the 
misalignment happened during the repair of the car following the accident in November 
2018. So, I also agree  that Admiral should  ensure  that it repairs this part of the car.
Similarly, as it has been agreed  that the dulling of the paintwork (attributed to the repair of 
scratches to the bodywork) has happened  since the initial  repair I agree this should  be 
repaired at the same time as the mirror casing that has been identified as requiring repair  as 
well. I dont think it would be fair to ask Mr and Mrs C to get these things fixed  themselves 
and pay a cash-in-lieu  payment. I say this as all these repairs should have been undertaken 
by Admiral. It isnt Mr and Mrs Cs fault that the repairs werent up to standard and that they 
lost faith in Admirals  chosen repairer and questioned whether the repairer  had the 
necessary expertise and qualifications to undertake  the repairs  in any event.
Admiral has highlighted  that it feels that there might be further difficulties ahead if another  
repairer goes ahead with the additional work. And that it wouldnt be fair to ask a further 
repairer to take on this rectification work. I take its point.  But it wouldnt be fair for the 
consumers to have  to arrange this work  either. They have  been  subjected to enough  stress, 
hassle and inconvenience already.
Plus, Mr and Mrs Cs car has been  sat for quite a period of time now because of Admirals  
failure to deal with their claim. So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
Ref: DRN93162083circumstances of this complaint, is for Admiral  to write off their car or buy it back  for the 
market value from the time of the accident.  This will allow everyone to move on. And Mr and 
Mrs C to be put back into the position  they should  have been but for Admirals  numerous 
errors. Admiral can choose  to sell the car on in its present form or once it is repaired. This 
will prevent  any further  difficulties with the repair of the car and prevent further potential 
complaints about  the adequacy of repairs.
The alternative to this is for Admiral and Mr and Mrs C to agree a repairer to undertake the 
necessary work and potentially face further as yet unknown problems. I agree with Admiral 
that this wouldnt  be fair to the new repairer as there are a number of unidentified issues and 
the level of repair work  and rectification  work would be impossible to gauge  at this stage. It 
would seem fairer, to both sides, to draw a line under the problems and move on.
I have also looked  at the replacement tyre issue and I agree with the position taken in asking 
Admiral to refund the cost of the tyre. I say this as the damage was significant and Id expect 
its repairer to note such damage  and highlight it to the consumer upon return. So, although  I 
can understand Admirals  point - it is possible that the tyre was already damaged  - I think it 
should refund the cost of the tyre. And the two further tyre issues  would be dealt with in 
writing the car off in any event.
In relation to the various other costs I agree that Mr and Mrs C should  be refunded any costs 
incurred in gaining  specialist reports and assessments - subject to Mr and Mrs C providing  
receipts. Admiral should also pay the costs Mr and Mrs C incurred  in repairing the digital car 
radio. I say this as Im satisfied that the aerial  crossed the path of the repair area and so, on 
balance, I think it was affected by the accident or repair and should  be paid for by Admiral. It 
should also pay any shortfall in the amount Mr C had to pay for his new wheel and it should 
look to pay simple interest to Mr and Mrs C for the time they have been without any of the 
costs they have paid.
And in relation to loss of use and ongoing  costs such  as public transport  and hire car costs I 
understand Admiral  are happy to consider these.  But before I finalise this point I would ask 
Mr and Mrs C to send in details of what they have  done since  they were told they couldnt  
use their car, including any receipts  they have.
I will then consider the issue of travel  costs and loss of use before finalising my decision. But 
I must highlight that it is a longstanding principle of this service that we expect consumers to 
mitigate their position and limit costs incurred. I know Mr C has questioned the level of loss 
of use payments this service generally awards,  but this figure  is used by the courts and I 
think £10 a day is generally fair in circumstances like these.
Finally, I agree that Mr and Mrs C have  faced a significant degree of stress and 
inconvenience throughout the claim and Admiral  has acknowledged this. But its offer of 
£1,355 compensation is significant and in line with the kind of award  I might  make so Im not 
asking it to pay anymore.
replies and developments
Both sides responded. Admiral questioned whether  the car wasnt driveable and highlighted 
that the car passed its MOT (although the MOT did highlight the door was hard to close)  in 
July 2019. And said no evidence  had been provided to say the car couldnt be driven  or 
wasnt in a roadworthy condition. 
Ref: DRN93162084Admiral also reiterated  its view that the car must have been involved in a second accident  
and the original repair was satisfactory. And that it had acted more  than reasonably  in 
offering to pay for bumper damage as a gesture of goodwill  and the wing mirror  casing. 
Ultimately, it maintained it had acted  more than reasonably in offering to pay cash-in-lieu for 
the remaining  damage and feels that to, in effect  write the car off, would amount to 
betterment. It says it has paid to repair all the damage at the time of the accident  and to pay 
Mr C the full market value of the car would  significantly over indemnify the consumer.
Mr C sent a large amount of emails  and correspondence on a regular basis.  And some  
clarification was gained  from him about his actions since the provisional decision was made, 
especially around his ability  to use the car and its actual use while it has been  in his 
possession. 
After I sent my provisional decision Mr C had a change in circumstances. And because  he 
couldnt afford to keep  hiring cars, he decided to part exchange the car for another  
prestigious model. He approached a main  dealership, agreed a part exchange price for his 
car and agreed  to buy a new car. Mr C had taken some advice around this and believed  he 
was mitigating his position by doing this. He believed he was entitled to a like for like hire car 
but rather than keep paying  for hire cars he thought it would be cheaper to buy a new car. 
This meant he was mobile again and he was able to commute  to his new job.
However, he said he realised that he hadnt  followed the advice he was given correctly and 
so he reversed the trade-in aspect of his purchase. He still bought  the new car but kept his 
old car on his drive and re-insured it elsewhere.
Mr C also provided some clarity around his use of the car after the original  claim and after he 
was told it wasnt driveable.  He says he used the car as normal until May 2019  as he thought 
it was unsafe  and this was confirmed  to him in July 2019. Mr C said the car was only used to 
get to and from garages and professional experts  after that. 
Although Mr C wanted the matter concluding  he did ask for more time to respond to some  of 
this services enquiries. I note he wasnt able to get all the information he wanted me to 
weigh up, and he continues to question  whether  Admirals repairer  had the necessary 
qualifications to repair the car in the first place. But, hes now happy for the matter  to be 
reconsidered. The present position  is that Mr and Mr C have  the car on their drive  and have 
taken out insurance  to cover the car on that basis. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the latest 
representations, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
And although a lot has gone on since my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
In the main Admiral has rehearsed the same arguments. I know it feels  there has been  a 
secondary accident to the same part of the car. But I dont feel there  is sufficient evidence  to 
support its position.  Mr C feels that it is accusing  him of fraud here,  but I think  it is just 
following its engineers  advice. And they suggest the car was repaired to a satisfactory 
standard after the accident and so this is the only logical explanation. But there isnt any real 
evidence to support  this position and the likelihood of an accident  occurring in the same 
unusual position  seems remote.
Ref: DRN93162085So, Im satisfied the car either wasnt repaired correctly, or it had a pre-existing problem that 
Admiral failed to diagnose.  Either way I think the easiest and the fairest thing  to do, in the 
particular circumstances  if this case, is for Admiral to buy the car from Mr and Mrs C and pay 
them the market  value of the car from around the time they felt they couldnt use the car. I 
know Admiral  feel this will amount to betterment but as it stands Mr and Mrs Cs car will 
need an awful lot of rectification work  to make it roadworthy. And as this, on balance,  is 
attributed to the original accident  Admiral should  cover this. Plus, it can recover  some of the 
costs from the sale of the car.
Mr and Mrs C had use of the car up until the middle  of 2019 and the MOT  didnt highlight the 
car wasnt driveable. So, I think it would be fair to pay the market  value  from the end of July 
2019. This is when  Mr C said he saw pictures of damage to the car that worried him, and he 
says his new insurer and an engineer  told him not to use the car. To go from the date of the 
original claim  would be unfair on Admiral given  the fact the car was driveable until this point 
in time.
Admiral have questioned whether the car was driveable. And I can understand its concern 
as the car was driven from time to time and it wasnt declared  off road. But Im satisfied, from 
what Mr and Mrs C have said, that they didnt generally use the car as they felt it wasnt safe 
and because of what the various  engineers and insurer said. 
Mr C has said he shouldve been able to have a like for like hire car throughout the time he 
couldnt use his car. But as I outlined earlier this service generally expects consumers to 
mitigate their position. I know Mr C was able to buy a new car when he got a new job 
recently. But given  the amount of money Mr and Mrs C were paying  on hire cars (even  if 
they werent like for like), and the protracted nature of this complaint, they couldve  bought  a 
cheaper car while this was all disputed. This would have meant they were mobile and limited 
the level of costs incurred. They couldve then sold the cheaper car when all this was 
finalised and wouldnt have been out of pocket. And if they were out of pocket, as the run 
arounds value  had dropped, I wouldve said that Admiral should  pay any short  fall.
That said I think it is fair for Admiral to pay for the hire car charges Mr C has had to pay. I 
say this as Mr and Mrs C had to hire cars from time to time to fit in with their lifestyle and 
they believed  their car was dangerous. But Im not making any further loss of use award. I 
say this as this was Mrs Cs policy and she seems  to have remained mobile by using the 
other family car. And, as Ive outlined above, I do think Mr and Mrs C could have mitigated 
their position  and limited  the costs they incurred. But I dont think it would be fair to leave 
them out of pocket given the level of damage  to their car and Admirals failure to repair their 
car properly.
I understand from Mr and Mrs C that they didnt in fact incur  any costs in relation to the tyre. 
And a lot of the additional issues are dealt with by Admiral, in effect,  writing  the car off. But I 
think it is only fair Admiral pays the additional  costs incurred because of its failure  to deal 
with the repair satisfactorily in the first instance   such  as engineer  costs,  radio  repair costs, 
additional insurance costs from the time they bought the new car. I would expect Admiral to 
pay 8% simple interest for the time they have been without the money.
Mr C has highlighted what he feels the general  value of his car is, but I will leave it to Admiral  
to value his car and provide him market value.  I must highlight  to Mr and Mrs C that Admiral 
will follow our well-established approach in doing  this. It will use the trade valuation guides to 
establish the cars market value. These trade  guides undertake significant research based 
Ref: DRN93162086around car sales from that time (July 2019  in this instance) in order to establish  a cars 
market value. And generally, we feel this is a fair way to establish a market  value for a car.
Finally, I know  all of this has caused  Mr and Mrs C a great deal of stress, worry and 
inconvenience and Admiral have acknowledged this. And I know  things have still been 
drawn out following my provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs C took a number of steps since  
that time which meant things were further delayed. It was important further  enquiries  were 
undertaken, and I cant hold Admiral responsible for this. Plus,  they had another car at this 
point which  lessened the effect  in any event. So, I think that Admirals significant offer of 
£1,355 compensation to date is fair and I wont be asking it to increase it. 
I know both sides wont be completely happy  about  how this has been finalised. But I hope 
by taking the steps outlined here that both sides can move  on and I think  this is fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
recover Mr and Mrs Cs car and treat it as if it was a write  off from July 2019  and pay 
the market value of the car adding  8% simple interest from this time until the date of 
settlement,
subject to Mr and Mrs C evidencing their position consider and pay the remaining 
reasonable hire car costs subject to evidence adding 8% simple  interest  from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement,
subject to Mr and Mrs C evidencing their position consider any other public transport 
costs incurred adding  8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement,
subject to Mr and Mrs C evidencing their position pay the additional costs incurred in 
paying for the car radio repair, gaining specialist reports and assessments engineer 
reports adding 8% simple interest  from the date Mr and Mrs C paid for all this to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9316208