K821x#15Complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream  are holding her 
responsible for loans  which  she says she didnt apply for.  
Background
Mrs L says shes been the victim  of identity theft.  
Mrs L has explained to our service that her daughter applied for four loans in her name  
without her knowledge or authority. Mrs L said her daughter asked to use her account for her 
boyfriend to use, which Mrs L agreed to. So, each time she received a payment into her 
account, she assumed  it was for her daughters  boyfriend. Mrs L wasnt  aware that the loans 
which had been  paid into her account  were taken out in her name fraudulently.
Mrs L has told us the loans in question are:
Date Amount
09/02/2018 £600
03/04/2018 £920
17/05/2018 £450.84
21/05/2018 £552.28
Total loan amount £2,523.12
Lending Stream didnt  provide our service with any information regarding  Mrs Ls complaint 
despite several requests from the investigator.  Lending Stream  initially  confirmed they would 
only investigate Mrs Ls complaint if she provided them  with a crime reference number, 
However, as Mrs L became aware of her daughters actions, she didnt  report  the fraud  to 
the police.
In November 2019, the investigator upheld Mrs Ls complaint. She said that as Lending 
Stream hadnt provided any evidence to show Mrs L took out the four loans, she couldnt 
conclude Mrs L was responsible for them. The investigator asked Lending Stream  to:
remove the loans  from Mrs Ls credit file;
amend any internal  and external records which link Mrs L to the loans;
refund  any payments  taken from Mrs Ls account linked to the loans;
add interest onto the above amount in the sum of 8% from the date the payments 
were taken  to the date of the refund;
pay Mrs L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs L agreed with the investigators opinion. Lending Stream  responded to the investigators  
opinion and agreed with most of it but said they wouldnt  remove  the loans from Mrs Ls 
credit file unless they had a crime reference number. 
Lending Stream subsequently amended their offer and offered to refund Mrs L the amounts 
she paid towards the loans  less the actual principal loans  total.  The investigator 
communicated the offer to Mrs L but she didnt  agree.
Lending Stream reviewed  their position again and in February 2020, agreed  with the 
investigators opinion.
Ref: DRN96195132Mrs L got in touch with the investigator  in September 2020 to let her know  she hadnt  
received the settlement from Lending  Stream. The investigator attempted to resolve things 
by contacting Lending Stream  but was unsuccessful. Therefore, the complaint has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
The main  issue to address is that Lending  Stream hasnt provided us with any evidence  at 
all. We dont have  evidence of:
the loan applications;
the information Lending Stream relied on when approving the loans;
details of any repayments set up to pay back the loans.
I appreciate Lending Stream has said theyd expect  law enforcement to be involved if this 
was identity theft. The problem is I cant tell whether it is identity theft or not as they refuse to 
share even  basic information.  I respect Lending Stream  must  have  internal  policies  and 
processes to follow but they are also aware of our rules. These say under DISP  3.5.9  I can: 
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been  supplied and take account  of the failure  
by a party to provide information requested.
Ive also considered that Lending Stream did agree with the investigators  opinion. And 
therefore, Im satisfied that I can safely conclude Lending Stream agree  that these loans 
were taken out fraudulently.
Because of that I agree the complaint should  be upheld.  Lending  Stream should remove all 
evidence of the four loans from Mrs Ls credit file. They should also refund the principal and 
interest amount  of the loans  which Mrs L has already repaid and add 8% simple interest 
from the date the payment(s) were taken to the date they settle. And they should pay Mrs L 
£100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Gain Credit  LLC trading as Lending  Stream,  for the 
reasons Ive explained above.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending  Stream should;
remove the loans  from Mrs Ls credit file;
refund  any payments  in total (inclusive  of principal and interest)  Mrs L has made  
towards the loans;
pay interest on the funds Mrs L paid towards the loans  at 8% per annum simple from 
the date Mrs L made the payments to the date Lending Stream returned  the funds to 
Mrs L1,
1 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to take off tax from 
this interest. Lending Stream must give Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Ref: DRN96195133pay Mrs L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9619513