K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about advice he says he was given by a representative of TenetConnect
Services Limited (TSL) - Impact Financial Solutions  (IFS) - in 2011.  This advice was to
switch his pension  funds to a SIPP and then buy shares in certain  companies  so that he
could obtain a loan. Mr P complains about  the losses he has incurred in doing so.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 September 2019. A copy is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold the 
complaint. 
In response to the provisional decision Mr P wished  to clarify that he didnt approach the 
adviser, he was referred to him. He also queried whether the redress  calculation  covered 
both tranches of SVS shares that he bought  as this complaint only concerned one tranche.
TSL replied to the provisional decision and said:
Whilst it accepted  that the IFS adviser was involved in the pension  liberation scheme  it was 
unfair to make TSL solely responsible for the events  that occurred and the redress to be 
paid. In brief:
Mr P sought out the loan and it finds it unlikely  that Mr P would not have sought out 
other means to obtain the loan before releasing pension funds. 
It disputed that the reason for the creation of the SIPP was to purchase  the shares. It 
said Mr P had first approached Breatheasy  Loans (BL) to obtain a loan and not for 
financial advice on his pensions.  And he went on to take out a second loan using a 
pension, independently of IFS. Therefore if IFS had not been involved he would have 
taken the same  action  through other channels and be in the same position.  
It queried what the loan had been  used for? It said this could have been used to 
prevent a house repossession  or similar. It said Mr P had not disclosed what he had 
used the loan for. It said that the loan should be viewed as interest  free and interest 
applied to it when  calculating redress. 
Without the promise of a loan Mr P would not have transferred to the SIPP. BL and 
Elliott Laurence Limited were  the driving  force behind the scheme and should be held 
as least partially responsible. SVS is also responsible as it was the SIPP provider 
and had a vested interest. Mr P was told to invest in SVS and Titania Internet 
Ventures shares  the latter it suggests had some link to SVS.  It suggests 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ps confirmation that he was referred  to the IFS adviser. This would not alter my 
findings as it remains that Mr P was given advice by that adviser as to the creation and 
arrangement of the switch to the SIPP. 
Ref: DRN96372152I would also confirm that my redress only relates to the advice given by IFS on this occasion, 
which resulted in the purchase of shares on this occasion. Only those  shares should be 
taken into account  when calculating Mr Ps loss and only those  shares will be included  in any 
undertaking. 
I have considered TSLs  comments  carefully, which largely concern liability  and redress.
In terms of why the switch  to the SIPP was necessary, perhaps  it would be more accurate to 
say that the reason for the creation of the SIPP was to purchase  the shares so that the loan 
could be provided.  It may well be that Mr P approached other parties first  who would 
eventually provide the loan. But it remains that Mr P was referred to the IFS adviser who 
played a crucial role in advising on and arranging the SIPP so that the loan could  be 
provided.
The purchase of the shares and the provision of the loan was only made possible by the 
creation of the SIPP. The shares and the loan purchase could not have happened  without  it 
and the unsuitable share purchase  and loan flowed directly from the advice to undertake the 
switch to the SIPP. On that basis, whilst  there were other  businesses  involved in the process 
that led to the share purchase  and loan, I believe it is fair that TSL should  make good Mr Ps 
loss. As I set out in the provisional decision,  the IFS adviser more likely knew that the 
purpose of the switch  to the SIPP was to enable the kind of share purchase Mr P undertook  
and then the provision of the loan. 
I think that TSLs comments about  Mr P obtaining the loan via his pension  by other means if 
IFS had not been  involved, misses  the material point. That is that it did enable  the share 
purchase/loan/pension liberation scheme  to take place. It is therefore responsible for the 
ramifications of that. If another business  had done that then it would be similarly responsible  
for the ramifications.  In any event, if Mr P had been  told that this was not a suitable or 
permitted approach for him then I think it is more likely he would not have gone ahead  this 
advice or guidance coming from a professional and regulated financial adviser.   
Mr P has previously  explained what the loan was for. As I set out in the attached provisional 
decision, this was to repay a charge on his house  taken  out by his ex-partner. So it did have 
value to Mr P and it should be taken into account  because otherwise Mr P would have  had to 
find this money by other means. 
I did include this in my suggested redress but TSL has highlighted that there  is no allowance  
for the benefit  of having this money (i.e. interest). Having considered  that, I do believe that 
such benefit should be allowed for. Mr P would have had to otherwise find this money  
elsewhere and that would have likely  come  at some cost. It is very difficult to know  what  that 
cost would have  been. I believe a pragmatic  and fair approach  would be to apply interest to 
the loan sum at Bank of England Base rate + 1%, as applied  from time to time.   I have 
amended the redress accordingly. 
I did inform the TSL and Mr P of this change. I have not received any further comments  from 
TSL.
Mr P questioned the application of interest  to the loan amount in the redress calculation  - as 
the loan he was given was interest  free. Also, the loan amount repayable was based  on the 
performance of the share investments. As these  investments did not perform, he questioned 
the fact that interest should be payable.
Ref: DRN96372153At the same time Mr P questioned the amount of time I had allowed for TSL to calculate 
redress (90 days). He queried this as he thought 28 days was the usual period. He also 
questioned the amount payable for the trouble and upset caused. He asked why this was not 
higher given that the loss amount was at the maximum level.
Mr P questioned whether the loan amount  would be deducted from the maximum 
enforceable award this service could make  or the total loss amount. 
In respect of Mr Ps queries I would  say that:
I appreciate that the loan amount was interest free. But my allowance  of interest  in 
the redress calculation  is based on the fact that this loan would  not have been 
available if the transaction  had not gone  ahead. So Mr P would have needed to 
source the money elsewhere and that would likely have come at some cost. The 
interest is to allow for that.
I have allowed 90 days for the calculation because it is not straightforward.  I set a 
reasonable period for such calculations  based  on the work that needs to be carried 
out. 28 days is not always appropriate.
The size of the award for trouble and upset is not directly  related to the loss amount 
(appreciating that the more money  that is at stake could make the upset more 
pronounced). But the fact that the loss may be towards the higher end (or even in 
excess of) the maximum enforceable award does not mean  that the trouble and 
upset award will also be at the higher end of the example ranges. My award  reflects 
the level of trouble  and upset that has been caused.
The loan amount plus interest  will be deductible from the total loss amount, not the 
maximum enforceable amount. 
fair compensation
My understanding is that Mr P received £55,476  (the loan) as a result of the switch  to the
SIPP and making  the share investments. It is also my understanding that Mr P will not have
to pay any of this money back  because  repayment was conditional on the performance  of
the investments.  
So the loan amount should be allowed for in the redress calculation.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable
advice.
I think with suitable  advice Mr P would have kept his existing pension. The reason for the
creation of the SIPP was investing  in the shares and if that had not gone  ahead there would
have been no reason  to switch to the SIPP. So most  likely Mr P would have simply retained
his original pension.
However its unlikely  to be possible for TSL to reinstate Mr P into his previous pension
scheme.
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award.
Ref: DRN96372154While its complicated to put Mr P back in the position he would have  been  in if suitable
advice had been given, I think its fair that Mr P is compensated now.
In summary, TSL should:
1.  Obtain the notional transfer  value  of the amount of Mr Ps previous pension  plan that   
was switched to the SIPP in 2011,  as at the date of my final decision, if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP.
2.  Obtain the transfer value of the amount  of Mr Ps SIPP  represented by the 
amount switched to it in 2011, as date of my final decision, including  any 
outstanding charges.
3.  And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ps SIPP. This should  be less the 
loan amount, plus interest on the loan amount at Bank  of England  Base rate + 1% 
as applied from time to time, compounded annually. The transfer  value is then 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
In addition,  TSL should:
4.  Pay any future fees owed by Mr P to the SIPP, for the next five years,  if 
the shares cannot be sold.
      5.  Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each point  in further  detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of the amount of Mr Ps previous pension  plan that was
switched to the SIPP in 2011, as at the date of my final decision, if it had not been
transferred to the SIPP.
TSL should ask Mr P's former pension provider to calculate the notional transfer value that
would have applied  as at the date of this decision had he not switched the pension  amount
but instead remained invested.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
TSL should assume  that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would still
have been made, and on the same dates.
2.Obtain the transfer value of the amount  of Mr Ps SIPP  represented by the amount
switched to it in 2011,  as date of my final decision, including  any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be
a negative figure.
Ref: DRN963721553.Pay the amount of (1-2), less the loan amount plus interest,  into Mr Ps SIPP.  This 
payment should  take account  of any available tax relief and the effect of charges.
The loan amount plus interest  can be deducted  from the amount of (1-2) as Mr P has had 
the benefit of this money. If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, TSL 
should pay it as a cash sum to Mr P. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally  
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax in retirement.
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years  if the shares cannot be sold.
Had TSL given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  I am not aware of the
current status of the shares but it may be that one or more  of the share  types cannot be sold
or traded. If that is so, then its not fair that Mr P continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if the
shares cant be sold to enable the SIPP to be closed.
Ideally, TSL should take over the investments to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the
fairest way of putting Mr P back in the position he would have been in. But that may not be
possible.
So, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that if the shares cant be sold then TSL
pays Mr P an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth  of SIPP  fees (calculated using
the previous years fees), or undertakes to cover  the fees that fall due during the next five
years. This should provide a reasonable period for things  to be worked out so the SIPP can
be closed.
In return for the compensation set out above, TSL may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive in respect of the shares in that five
year period,  as well as any other payment he may receive from any party as a result of the
share investment. That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the
amount he may receive. TSL will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it
asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded by this decision
may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
If, after five years, TSL wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any
future payments from the shares, it must  agree to pay any further future  SIPP fees. If TSL
fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr P should  then have the option of trying  to sell the shares to
enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, TSL is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr P of any claim Mr P
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension switch  share investment. If TSL
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of
compensation is made. TSL must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr P for his
consideration and agreement.
If the shares  can be sold (or already have been sold)  then TSL will not have to pay any
future SIPP fees.
5.Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN96372156I believe this matter  would have caused significant inconvenience and upset for Mr P and he
should receive a payment for this.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award : I require TSL to pay Mr P compensation as set out
above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr P
within 90 days of the date TSL receives  notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of
90 days, that it takes TSL to pay Mr P this compensation.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend  that TSL pays Mr P the balance. I further recommend interest
to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time,  in excess of 90
days, that it takes TSL to pay Mr P from the date it receives notification of his acceptance  of
the decision, as set out above.
If Mr P accepts  my determination,  the money  award  is binding  on TSL.  My recommendation
is not binding  on TSL.
Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr P may
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and TSL to pay fair compensation  as detailed above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
David Bird
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN96372157copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr P complains about advice he says he was given by a representative of TenetConnect
Services Limited (TSL) - Impact Financial  Solutions (IFS)  - in 2011.  This advice  was to
switch his pension funds to a SIPP and then buy shares in certain  companies  so that he
could obtain a loan.  Mr P complains about  the losses he has incurred in doing  so.
background
Mr P says he was investigating the possibility of releasing  some money  from his pension.  He
says he came across a company called  Breatheasy  Loans (BL) who could offer a loan
against his pension. He says that as this company  could not deal with him direct he was
contacted by a financial adviser  (who  I shall call Mr T) of IFS. He says he filled out all the
documentation he was sent so that he could obtain a loan of £50,000. The money was to
pay a charge taken out on his house by his ex-partner.
To obtain the loan Mr P has said that he was advised that he had to switch his existing
personal pension to a SIPP and then buy shares in SVS Securities PLC and Titania  Internet
Ventures PLC. He says he was not given a choice of what shares  to buy and the investment
process was administered  by Mr T of IFS.
Mr P complained to TSL but it did not uphold the complaint.  It said that it was not responsible
for the actions of Mr T or IFS in respect of the matters Mr P complained about.
When Mr P referred his complaint to this service, TSL said that it would not fall within my
jurisdiction.
I considered my jurisdiction  and issued a decision in which I found  that I did have jurisdiction
to consider this complaint. So I will now go onto consider the merits of the complaint itself.
Some of the background to that jurisdiction decision is relevant to a finding  as to the merits
for Mr Ps complaint  so I may include some of that background in this decision.
TSL made some submissions when  I was considering my jurisdiction which I believe are
relevant to the merits of the complaint itself. In brief they were:
Mr P contacted BL of his own volition  in order to access  his pension before the age of
55. In order to receive a loan from BL, Mr P promised to invest his pension in certain
shares. This shows that BL were, driving the  investment recommendation.
BL referred Mr P to an adviser of IFS in order to facilitate the pension switch  into a
SIPP. Mr P did sign a letter  of authority (LOA) appointing  Mr T as his financial adviser
so that he could access  the required information. But the LOA did not refer to
advising on investments.
The financial adviser remuneration form has the ongoing advice section crossed out
and the adviser is only shown to be due a fee in return for establishing the SIPP.
There is an email dated 16 December 2011  which  told Mr P how to invest  his SIPP
funds and instructing him to do this on an execution only basis. He was provided  with
forms to do so by BL and/or you2invest. There is also an email Mr P sent to the
adviser on 19 December 2013 which shows BL were responsible for detailing the
investments that had to be made to access his pension.
Mr P subsequently invested on an execution only basis. There is a period of time
between the SIPP application and the investment instructions. This demonstrates the
Ref: DRN96372158adviser had no involvement in the investments.
Four months  later Mr P went to a different  firm called Blu Door  Ltd in order to
release another pension into his SIPP.  The involvement of BL is noted again.
Investment instructions were given  which  closely mirror those given previously. Mr P
was again instructed  to carry this out in an execution only basis. There is a conflict of
interest created by the involvement of SVS SIPP and the stock  Mr P was told to
invest in. This shows that you2invest, BL and the SIPP provider are responsible for
the Mr Ps investments. It queries why Mr P carried out these instructions when
legislation did not allow access to his pension funds at the time.
Whilst it agrees  the IFS adviser arranged the SIPP,  Mr P made the investments
himself.
Mr Ps complaint  to SVS Securities shows that the adviser did not advise him as to
the investments  and he did this without  an instruction from a financial advisor. The
investments were instructed  by Mr P on his own.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSL has not disputed that the IFS adviser arranged  the SIPP. But, for completeness  I would
repeat what  I set out in my jurisdiction decision in that there is:
An application for an SVS SIPP   which was received by SVS on 23 November
2011. This was signed by Mr P on 21 November 2011.
Confirmation  from SVS SIPP that it has Mr T of IFS as the appointed financial
adviser for the investments  in the SIPP.
A Financial Adviser Remuneration Form which records that Mr T has been
appointed by Mr P to arrange the SVS SIPP and provide ongoing advice. The
payment for arranging the SIPP was to be paid to Mr T.
An undated Client  Agreement  that states  IFS will be acting for Mr P in arranging
and advising on investments and pensions.
So I am persuaded that Mr Ps version  of events is more likely correct  in that an adviser
from IFS did provide advice  on and arrange the SIPP.
So I am persuaded that Mr Ps version  of events is more likely correct  in that an adviser
from IFS did provide advice  on and arrange the SIPP.
However TSL disputes that the adviser arranged  or gave advice on the investments (shares)
within the SIPP (as discussed earlier). It says any arrangement or advice of this nature was
carried out by other parties.
I have noted that the IFS adviser  emailed  Mr P on 24 October 2011 and asked him to
complete an SVS SIPP application form. The email began,  I am  an Independent Financial
Advisor working in association with the Elliott Laurence  company. The  SIPP application  was
signed by Mr P on 17 November  2011.
Mr P then received an email dated 16 December  2011 from You2Invest telling him what
shares to invest in.
Ref: DRN96372159The loan agreement is dated 13 January 2012. The Creditor is Elliott Laurence Limited. Its
email address is info@breatheasyloans.co.uk and its website address is
www.breatheasyloans.co.uk. My understanding  is that BL was a subsidiary  of Elliott
Laurence Limited.  The Client Intermediary  with respect to the loan agreement  is IFS. And
the email address appears to be for Mr T  who, as discussed, arranged and advised on the
SIPP.
Mr P has said that he was advised that after the pension switch he would  be told by email
what to invest the money into. He received  an email  from You2lnvest which instructed him to
fill in some forms. The evidence is that Mr P then invested about  £92,000 in Titania Internet
Ventures and about £94,000  in SVS Securities  PLC on 22 December 2011.
It is in my view clear  that, as Mr P says,  that in order to obtain the loan he was told that he
would need to switch  his pension to the SIPP and then invest in certain shares. He was
referred to Mr T so that his pension could be switched to the SIPP.  Mr T then carried  out the
switch. It does then seem that Mr P was advised by another business as to what  shares  he
needed to purchase. However  I do not believe  that this means that TSL is not liable  for the
suitability of the associated pension switch,  loan and share investments.
As discussed, the client intermediary for the loan itself was IFS and the adviser  at IFS
confirmed he was working  in association  with Elliott Laurence Limited. I think it is highly
unlikely that the adviser did not know that the primary objective of the SIPP switch  he was
carrying out was to enable the loan. And that loan amounted to pension liberation  which is
illegal.
Whilst the adviser may not have known  exactly what shares  Mr P would have to purchase to
enable that loan I believe it is likely that he was aware  that investments of that type would
have to be purchased for the loan to be granted. The email  from Mr P to the adviser of 19
December 2011 evidences Mr P referring  back to the adviser regarding the investments he
had been advised to make. In my view it is highly  likely that Mr T did know the pension
liberation scheme would require investment  into the type of shares  Mr P purchased.
In addition, IFS had a duty under the relevant rules,  in particular COBS  2 and COBS 9, set
out previously by the FSA and now Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), to act in Mr Ps best
interests, know its client and give suitable advice. In my view it could not do so without taking
account of the investment which the SIPP  was put into place to facilitate. The only reason  for
the creation of the pension switch to the SIPP  was to enable the loan and the adviser knew
this. I believe the adviser also knew that the type of investments Mr P subsequently had to
make.
And Im also mindful  that in January 2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been  brought to the  FSAs  attention  that some financial advisers  are giving advice to
customers on pension  transfers or pension switches  without assessing the advantages and
disadvantages of  investment proposed to be held within the new pension. In  particular, we
have seen advisers moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often illiquid unregulated
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases we  have  seen  tend to operate under a similar  advice model. An introducer will
pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which  markets  an unregulated  investment (e.g.
an overseas property development).  When  the customer expresses an interest in the
unregulated investment,  the customer is introduced to a regulated financial adviser to
provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated investment. The financial
adviser does  not give advice on the unregulated  investment,  and says it is  only providing
advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the  unregulated investment. Sometimes  the regulated
financial adviser also  assists  the customer to unlock monies held in  other investments so
Ref: DRN963721510that the  customer is able to invest in the  unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser  recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer will  transfer out
of a current pension arrangement to release  funds to invest in an overseas property
investment under a SIPP,  then the suitability of the  overseas  property investment must form
part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into  the SIPP. If, taking into
account the  individual  circumstances  of the  customer,  the original pension product, including
its underlying  holdings, is more suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not  suitable.
This is  because if you give  regulated  advice  and the recommendation will  enable investment
in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the  regulated
elements.
 The FSA asks regulated  firms, in particular  financial adviser and SIPP Operators to  report
those FSA  firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of  the FSA requirements
This alert didnt make  any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation  that had not
applied previously.  It simply re-stated the principles that already applied, and which were in
place in 2011  when the advice  was given.
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator as to the type of
process IFS carried out to facilitate the loan and share purchase. I take an independent view
based on the circumstances  of the complaint  and take into account the rules, law and good
practice in place at the time to arrive at decision that is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. But my view is consistent with general  comments from the regulator about
this type of process  that consideration  should  be given when advice is given  to transfer a
SIPP, to the suitability of the overall proposition.
I do not agree that simply because  the regulators alerts were given after IFS gave its advice
that they are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight the existing obligations (which
applied at the time this advice was given)  when giving  advice such  as this. It was not setting
out new standards for businesses  to follow.
So my view is that the IFS adviser did have to take into account and advise on the specific
suitability of the investment  as well as the overall  arrangement of SIPP, loan and investment
to be made.
The authority of Martin  v Britannia Life (2000) also makes it clear that advice as to the merits
of buying or surrendering an investment cannot  sensibly be treated  as confined to a
consideration of the advantages  or disadvantages of a particular investment as a product,
without reference to the wider financial  context in which the advice  is tendered,  and will
include advice in relation  to any associated or ancillary  transaction(s).
In order  to obtain the loan Mr P wanted, he was required  to transfer his personal  pension to
the SIPP  and then invest in the shares. The purpose of the transfer and the investment in
shares was to obtain the loan and they are clearly  inextricably linked.  One cannot  be
considered without the other and the transfer,  SIPP,  shares and loan are clearly part of one
overall transaction. The investment and loan could  not have happened without the transfer.
suitability of the investments
We have  asked Mr P what his financial situation was at the time the SIPP was set up and
the investments  made. He has said that his income  was approximately £67,000 per year. Mr
P has said that he did not have  any other investments or savings apart from his pensions.
Mr P was told to buy shares  in two small companies  with the majority of his pension funds.
The shares  themselves were  high risk investments and there is nothing in Mr Ps
Ref: DRN963721511background or history of investing which would indicate this kind of speculative high risk
investment was suitable  for him. In addition, placing so much of his pension, which was the
majority of his overall savings, was entirely  unsuitable and placed  his financial security in
retirement at serious risk. This investment approach  was entirely unsuitable for him.
I should  confirm here that I am not persuaded that these investments were made on an
execution only basis. That may be how SVS Securities, You2invest or BL wished to term
the transaction but it is not tenable to suggest that shares that Mr P was instructed to buy by
the parties involved  can be termed execution only purchases. It is clear that Mr P was
instructed what to buy as a means  to obtain the loan.
I am also not persuaded that Mr P knew that this method of obtaining money (essentially)
from his pension was questionable. Mr P did not have  a background in financial services or
pension legislation. He was simply following instructions given by professional parties as to
how to obtain money from his pension (in this case via a loan). I have not seen evidence that
he was told that this method might be in contravention of pension legislation and therefore
something he should not do.
summary
In my view the IFS adviser was aware  when he arranged  and advised on the SIPP of the
overall transaction this was to enable  that is the loan by way of making investments  within
the SIPP.  Even  if that were  not so, he had a duty to take into account the purpose of the
pension switch to the SIPP and the investments that were to be made. This was clearly
pension liberation which is illegal and therefore  unsuitable for Mr P. In addition  the
transaction was unsuitable  for Mr P as it put his pension funds at high risk. My
understanding is that Mr P has now suffered significant loss through investing. The loss
would not have occurred  but for IFS advising as to the SIPP and arranging it.
I therefore  believe the complaint should be upheld.
fair compensation
My understanding is that Mr P received £55,476 (the loan) as a result of the switch to the
SIPP and making the share investments. It is also my understanding that Mr P will not have
to pay any of this money back  because repayment was conditional on the performance of
the investments. If Mr P believes this is not the case then he should let me know.
So the loan amount should be allowed for in the redress calculation.
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr P
as close  to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable
advice.
I think  with suitable advice Mr P would have kept his existing pension. The reason  for the
creation of the SIPP was investing in the shares and if that had not gone ahead there would
have been no reason  to switch to the SIPP. So most likely Mr P would have simply  retained
his original  pension.
However its unlikely to be possible for TSL to reinstate Mr P into his previous pension
scheme.
There are also a number of possibilities and unknown  factors in making an award.
While its complicated to put Mr P back in the position he would have been in if suitable
advice had been given,  I think its fair that Mr P is compensated  now.
In summary,  TSL should:
Ref: DRN9637215121.  Obtain the notional transfer value of the amount  of Mr Ps previous pension plan that   was  
switched to the SIPP in 2011, as at the date of my final decision, if it had not been transferred to 
the SIPP.
2.  Obtain the transfer value of the amount of Mr Ps SIPP represented  by the amount 
switched to it in 2011, as date of my final decision, including any outstanding  charges.
3.  And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ps SIPP, less the loan amount, so that the 
transfer value is increased by the amount calculated. This payment
      should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges.
In addition,  TSL should:
4.  Pay any future fees owed by Mr P to the SIPP,  for the next five years, if the 
shares cannot be sold.
      5.  Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
I have set out each point in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of the amount  of Mr Ps previous pension plan that was
switched to the SIPP  in 2011, as at the date of my final decision,  if it had not been
transferred to the SIPP.
TSL should ask Mr P's former pension provider to calculate the notional  transfer value  that
would have applied  as at the date of this decision  had he not switched the pension amount
but instead remained invested.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock
Market Income  Total  Return Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of
return that could have been achieved  if suitable  funds  had been chosen.
TSL should assume that any contributions  or withdrawals  that have been made  would still
have been made, and on the same dates.
2.Obtain the transfer  value of the amount of Mr Ps SIPP represented  by the amount
switched to it in 2011, as date of my final decision, including any outstanding  charges.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take
charges from the SIPP and there wasnt an adequate cash  balance to meet  them, it might be
a negative figure.
3.Pay the amount of (1-2), less the loan amount,  into Mr Ps SIPP. This payment should  take
account of any available tax relief and the effect  of charges.
The loan amount can be deducted from the amount of (1-2) as Mr P has had the benefit of
this money. If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP,  TSL should  pay it as a
cash sum to Mr P. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided  a
taxable income. Therefore  the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow  for any
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax in retirement.
4.Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years  if the shares cannot  be sold.
Had TSL given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  I am not aware of the
Ref: DRN963721513current status of the shares but it may be that one or more  of the share  types cannot be sold
or traded. If that is so, then its not fair that Mr P continues to pay the annual  SIPP fees if the
shares cant be sold to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
Ideally, TSL should take over the investments to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the
fairest way of putting Mr P back in the position he would have been in. But that may not be
possible.
So, to provide  certainty to all parties, I think its fair that if the shares  cant  be sold then TSL
pays Mr P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using
the previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five
years. This should provide  a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can
be closed.
In return  for the compensation  set out above, TSL may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive  in respect of the shares  in that five
year period, as well as any other  payment  he may receive from any party as a result of the
share investment.  That undertaking  should  allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the
amount he may receive. TSL will need  to meet  any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it
asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded by this decision
may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking.
If, after five years, TSL wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for any
future payments from the shares, it must agree to pay any further future  SIPP  fees. If TSL
fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr P should  then have the option of trying to sell the shares to
enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, TSL is entitled  to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mr P of any claim Mr P
may have against any third parties in relation  to this pension switch share investment. If TSL
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be effected before payment of
compensation is made. TSL must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr P for his
consideration and agreement.
If the shares can be sold (or already have been sold) then TSL will not have to pay any
future SIPP fees.
5.Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I believe this matter would have caused  significant inconvenience and upset for Mr P and he
should receive  a payment  for this.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require TSL to pay Mr P compensation as set out
above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr P
within 90 days  of the date TSL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of
90 days, that it takes TSL to pay Mr P this compensation.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I also recommend  that TSL pays Mr P the balance. I further recommend interest
to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time,  in excess of 90
days, that it takes TSL to pay Mr P from the date it receives notification  of his acceptance of
the decision, as set out above.
Ref: DRN963721514If Mr P accepts  my determination, the money award  is binding on TSL. My recommendation
is not binding on TSL.
Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my determination  and go to court  to ask for the
balance of the compensation owing  to him after the money  award has been paid. Mr P may
want to consider getting independent legal  advice before deciding whether to accept this
decision.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  the complaint and order  TSL to pay fair compensation as detailed above.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9637215