K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that Virgin Money  plc misled  him on when his minimum monthly payment 
was due and that it ended the promotional interest rate he had on his credit card. Hes also 
unhappy it applied  a late payment charge and recorded missed  payment information on his 
credit file.
background
Mr U is a credit card customer of Virgin. He had a promotional rate whereby if he made the 
requested minimum payment before the due date he wouldnt incur interest on his account 
balance.
On 19 February 2019 Mr U contacted Virgin to query when his payment was due. During this 
call Virgin said it told him his minimum payment  was due on 4 March.  It also said he was told 
he should receive his statement around day 12 of each month and that he has up to 20 days 
for his payment  to reach his account.  Mr U made his payment that month without  any issues.
But Mr Us payment from his March statement didnt reach his account until 5 April 2019.  
Virgin said this payment had been  received late as it had been  due by 1 April 2019. So, it 
withdrew his promotional 0% interest  rate, charged  him a late payment fee and recorded a 
missed payment marker  on his credit file. 
Mr U complained to Virgin  about  this. He felt that Virgin had told him he would need to make  
him minimum payment  by the 4 or 5 of each month. So, he thought he had until 5 April to 
make Aprils payment.
After Virgin  investigated  Mr Us complaint it didnt uphold it. It said it had removed Mr Us 
promotional interest  free rate due his payment being received late. And it explained this was 
in accordance with the terms of his account. It also didnt think  it had done anything  wrong  in 
charging him a late fee or recording  adverse information on his credit file.
Being dissatisfied with Virgins  response  to his complaint, Mr U referred it to our service.  He 
told our investigator that he felt misled about  the payment due date. And he wasnt happy 
with the way in which  Virgin had dealt  with his complaint and he felt he staff had been rude 
and unsympathetic in their dealings over the phone with him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Us complaint and, while  they empathised with him, they 
didnt think that Virgin had misled him or needed to do anything more  here.  But Mr U 
disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Us complaint  either about the circumstances surrounding 
his late payment in April 2019 or the way in which Virgin  dealt with his complaint. Strictly 
speaking, we dont  have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated  activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, 
even if I did think Virgin hadnt  done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold  
Ref: DRN97515172that element of his complaint or make  an award.  I cant act outside the law. So, I wont spend 
any time in this decision on that. Ill deal solely with whether Virgin  misled Mr U about the 
date Aprils monthly payment was due.
Like the investigator Ive listened to the calls Mr U made to Virgin. During  Februarys call Mr 
U explains that he received an email  telling him his payment was due, which doesnt mention 
the payment due date. So he asks for clarification about when that months payment is due. 
Its clear that Mr U is told his minimum payment is due on 4 March.  
Theres no discussion during this call about when future payments would be due other than 
the adviser informing  Mr U that he should  receive his statement around day 12 of each 
month and that he then has up to 20 days for his payment to reach his account. I understand 
that Mr U took this to mean that his payments would fall due around days  four or five of each 
month. But this isnt what Mr U was told during Februarys call. And, while  he may have 
misunderstood what Virgin told him, I cant fairly hold it responsible for that. 
Ive reviewed Mr Us account statements from 12 February and 12 March 2019, which 
stipulate that his monthly payment should  reach his account by 4 March  and 1 April 
respectively. Both these  dates are both 20 days  from the date of each statement. This is in 
line with what Virgin told him. It follows that I cant agree  Mr U was been  misled by Virgin. 
And so, I cant fairly hold it responsible  for Mr U making his payment late.
Mr U has provided our service with a screen  shot of a text message he received from Virgin 
on 3 April 2019 which states a quick  reminder that your Virgin Money  Credit  Card payment 
is due. He says this reinforced his belief that he hadnt missed his payment deadline.  But 
Virgin said courtesy text messages are sent when a payment hasnt  been  received by its due 
date to remind customers their payment is due. And it explained that because texts  arent  
considered a secure method of contact they dont detail  the specifics  of when the payment is 
due or that its late. 
Im satisfied that Virgin followed its system process here as Mr Us payment was overdue at 
this point. While I can understand why Mr U might  have thought he hadnt missed  his 
payment deadline the text he received doesnt say that. And I dont  think this could be 
reasonably inferred. I also dont think the content  of this text was misleading or ambiguous  
particularly given the previous telephone  discussion Mr U had had with Virgin. 
As a result of Mr U making his payment Virgin withdrew his 0% promotional rate. Ive 
considered whether Mr U ought to have been aware that Virgin  could do this. I can see that 
during the online application for a Virgin  credit card customers are provided with clear 
information that explains the impact  of making a late payment. Virgin also makes  customers  
aware of this on each  statement it provides. So, Im satisfied that Mr U ought to have known 
his promotional rate would  be withdrawn  if his minimum payment didnt reach his account by 
its due date.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Us credit  card agreement clearly outline  the circumstances 
in which  a promotional  rate can be revoked. As this is a binding  agreement Id expect Mr U 
to have read this document. Im satisfied that Virgin has complied with section 7 of that 
agreement in the action it took here.  This means  its entitled to charge Mr U interest on his 
balance at the time the payment was missed.  It follows  that I cant  fairly ask Virgin to 
reinstate the promotional  0% rate that it withdrew  from Mr Us account.
Ref: DRN97515173I recognise that Mr U isnt happy about  the late payment charge Virgin  applied  to this 
account. But its entitled to do this when  a payment isnt received on time and its acted in 
line with section 7 of Mr Us credit card agreement  in applying that charge. So, I wont be 
asking it to remove it. 
I understand that Virgin has recorded late payment information on Mr Us credit file, which  he 
would like removed. Financial businesses  should  make sure that the information they report 
to credit reference agencies is accurate. As Virgin receive Mr Us payment  late I cant say it 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  in reporting  this information. So I cant  ask it to remove  it as 
its a true reflection of what happened. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr U brought this complaint to our service. And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But for the reasons given I dont think Virgin has 
done anything  wrong here and, because of this, I wont  be asking it to do anymore.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9751517