K821x#15complaint
Ms S says Gain  Credit  LLC  trading as Lending  Stream - irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Lending  Stream provided to Ms S between  
September 2011 and July 2012, and between July 2014 and October 2014. Ms Ss 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Largest Amount Repaid
1 12/09/2011 31/01/2012 6 £315.00 £157.50
2 06/02/2012 27/07/2012 6 £500.00 £250.00
3 02/07/2012 04/07/2012 6 £605.00 £311.50
      
4 04/07/2014 outstanding 6 £400.00 £216.00
5 03/08/2014 outstanding 6 £290.00 £345.50
6 12/10/2014 outstanding 6 £290.00 £575.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ss complaint and thought loan 6 shouldnt have been 
given. Lending  Stream agreed but Ms S disagreed.  She queried  the amounts  she had 
already paid, and she also said she wasnt happy  that her debt has been sold on to a 
collections agency after it was recommended  in the adjudicators view that Lending Stream 
pay compensation.  
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Ms S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN95420862the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Ms S could sustainably repay  her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ss complaint about loans 1 to 5. Ms S hasnt responded 
directly to us about the adjudicators opinion, so Im assuming  she doesnt disagree with the 
adjudicators findings.  So, I wont make any further  findings on these loans. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators findings that loan 6 shouldnt  have  been  lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why loan 6 wasnt  
suitable for Ms S. So, all thats left for me to decide on is what Lending Stream needs to do 
to put things right. 
Ms S is unhappy that Lending  Stream sold the debt onto a third party  after our adjudicator 
recommended it bought  the debt in their findings. Whilst this is unfortunate, I have outlined 
what Lending Stream should do in this situation  to fairly compensate Ms S. But it is important 
that for me to say that I cant force Lending  Stream to buy back  the debt. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
              
I understand Ms M hasnt repaid loan 6. If Ms M still owes  Lending Stream any of the 
principal balance, she borrowed on this loan Lending Stream should remove all the 
interest and charges  applied to the outstanding  balance. Lending Stream should then 
re-work the account as if all payments made  by Ms M went  to towards the principal.  
But importantly, Lending Stream  needs to make  sure that Ms M doesnt  repay  more  
than the principal amount borrowed. 
Ref: DRN95420863If after doing this Ms M hasnt  repaid  the principal she borrowed Lending Stream can 
deduct this from the compensation.  If, Ms M has already paid enough to repay  the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
and if Lending  Stream no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make  a deduction 
due to the amount owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to 
make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms M.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Ss credit file in relation to loan 6. 
                                                                                                                   
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending  Stream 
must give Ms S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Ms S still has an outstanding balance due on loan 6 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Lending  Stream of its obligation to treat Ms S fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ss complaint.  Gain  Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9542086