K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that a predecessor  of Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a term 
assurance policy to cover  a business loan.
background
In 1991 Mr and Mrs B started  a new business and took out a loan of just over £160,000  to 
fund it. To provide  them with protection, they were recommended the Mortgage Payment 
Protection policy (MPP) in question and also a Personal Accident  and Sickness policy 
(PAS). 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B complained to Santander  that it hadnt  been made clear the policies 
were optional, or that they couldve been  taken out with alternative provider. They  said theyd 
been placed under pressure and had been  led to believe  they had to take out the cover in 
order for the loan application to be successful. Further, Mrs B had been included  
unnecessarily as she worked elsewhere  and only helped out occasionally with the new 
business. 
Santander upheld  the part of the complaint concerning the PAS and refunded its premiums. 
But Santander felt the MPP had been suitable. It said, in brief;
There was very limited information  available due to the sales having been in 1991.
The sales  process at the time wouldve made  clear that the cover wasnt  conditional. 
Mr and Mrs B were  taking on an entirely  new business and with a dependent  child 
the cover  wouldve  been  beneficial. 
Mr and Mrs B were  making their argument with the benefit of hindsight, many years  
after the lending  had been paid off (in 2001). 
In 1996, Mr B had written to the business seeking  an informal reduction  of the 
borrowing term as their cash flow had been better  than expected. But Mr B had 
indicated that he wanted the protection arrangements to remain as they were, 
indicating that he was happy  with them.
Our investigator also didnt feel that the complaint should be upheld. He said, in brief;
The loan application form included an option  that the lending could be capital and 
interest without cover, which suggested that cover  had not been a condition of the 
lending. 
Mr and Mrs B had asked for a full refund of premiums but had also said that if theyd 
been given a choice they wouldve opted  for cover for just Mr B. 
There was insufficient evidence to conclude that Mr and Mrs B had been  misled 
about the policy being a condition of lending or that theyd been pressured  into 
buying the policies. 
The MPP was a suitable recommendation given their circumstances. 
Although there did appear to be a discrepancy  between the loan amount of just over 
£160,000 and the policys sum assured of £130,000, there wasnt enough to show 
this hadnt been  intentional.  And in any event,  it wouldve meant that the premiums  
actually paid were  less than theyd have  been  to cover the full amount. So there was 
no loss. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree and commented,  in brief; 
Ref: DRN95246752While  the business may have  had procedures in place, these were not followed and 
the policy was mis-sold to them.
It would  have been irresponsible of them to take the loan without cover for Mr B. The 
complaint is that they were obliged to take it for both Mr and Mrs B. 
They were pressured into buying the policy; being told it was compulsory amounted 
to pressure selling.  
The business plan provided at that time showed  that Mrs Bs involvement in the 
business was minimal.
They only have their personal testimony to support that they were mis-sold  to. But 
Santander has no evidence to refute  it.
They dont agree that joint cover  was appropriate as Mrs B had employment  benefits 
in place.
They would like the under-insurance issue to be looked into more. How could the 
policy be suitable if they were under-insured?
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters been  referred  to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
Id note also that its clear  Mr and Mrs B have strong feelings about the business actions. 
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that they wont take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, 
but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint initially focussed on the mis-selling of both the MPP and the PAS 
 saying that they were pressured  into buying both on the basis that they had to be taken out 
to ensure the loan for their new business  was successful.  
As noted,  premiums for the PAS have already been  refunded, with Mr and Mrs Bs current  
position being that the premiums for the MPP should  also be refunded.  
Having reviewed the matter in detail, it appears  that the complaint is now focussed  on  
a)The sale of a joint policy rather than a sole name  policy  for Mr B, as its accepted  that 
life cover for Mr B was entirely sensible in the circumstances. 
b)The MPP being unsuitable because  the sum assured was less than the balance of 
the loan, leaving  Mr and Mrs B under-insured. 
In respect of point (a), while I recognise that Mr B was clearly going  to take the lead in 
managing and running the business,  it was nevertheless still the case  that the loan was in 
joint names. The proposal document for the loan was presented  as being from both 
Ref: DRN95246753Mr and Mrs B, included  Mrs Bs work and salary details, and explained that she would assist 
in the management of the business  at weekends. 
Given this involvement  albeit relatively minor   I dont think  it was unsuitable to 
recommend joint cover  to Mr and Mrs B. The business was being started as a result  of 
Mr Bs redundancy from his existing role and was quite  a departure  although  his previous 
business experience would clearly  have placed  him in a strong position. But there  were  
nevertheless risks involved and Mr and Mrs B still had a dependent child. So, I think  
extending the cover from what  Mr and Mrs B saw as the essential cover  for Mr B to also 
include Mrs B, was a prudent and reasonable recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they only agreed to take out the cover  because they were 
pressured into doing so, on the basis that it was a condition of the loan. I note their 
recollections  although  I have to consider that theyre being provided  almost thirty years on 
from the sale  but I have  to weigh them against  a consideration of the (limited) documentary 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Doing so leads  me more  to the view that this was a suitable recommendation made for cover 
that, more likely than not, Mr and Mrs B wouldve seen at the time as a sensible choice. Im 
not persuaded that they were misled about the policies being conditional. 
In respect of point (b), it does seem clear that the policys sum assured was for less than the 
amount drawn  down.  While theres  no clear explanation for this, it does appear that the initial  
requirement for borrowing was the £130,000 amount   the sum assured. But there  was a 
proposal to reschedule Mr and Mrs Bs existing residential mortgage of £32,000 over the 
same term as the new loan and to also take a £10,000 overdraft facility.  So, the question is 
why the sum assured was not increased  to match this?
It may well have been because of Mr and Mrs Bs intention to make  lump sum repayments to 
the total borrowing to quickly bring it down, which it transpired they were able to do  hence 
the letter of 1996 in  which Mr B suggested  a informal reduction  of the loan term. While  I 
cant be sure of this, it seems a plausible  explanation as to why the sum assured wasnt  
increased to match the total borrowing. 
But in any event, as the investigator  noted, if I accept that the life cover was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B about  which  they werent misled  which I do  then 
theres no loss as the premiums actually paid will have  been less that those that wouldve  
been paid to support a higher sum assured.
In summary,  as noted, I do acknowledge how strongly Mr and Mrs B feel about the matter. 
And I can understand that with Santander acknowledging the mis-sale of the PAS sold 
alongside the MPP, and paying compensation for it, that it would feel that the same rationale 
might apply to the MPP. 
But these  were different  products, providing different types of cover. While there may have 
been issues with the PAS, these would  not necessarily have applied to the MPP. My view,  
having given close scrutiny to all the evidence  and careful consideration to the wider  
circumstances, is that the MPP was a suitable  and sensible  recommendation by the 
business that, on balance, I dont feel was mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs B and which I dont feel 
they were misled about.  
Ref: DRN95246754my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9524675