K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket, has lent to 
her irresponsibly.
Background
Mrs C was approved for one instalment  loan from Pounds to Pocket in December  2011.  It 
was for £850  over 364 days with twelve regular instalment  amounts  of around £133. The first 
instalment was due on 30 December  2011.  The last one was due on 30 November 2012. 
Mrs C was not able to pay the first instalment and emailed Pounds  to Pocket  in early 
January 2012  to say that she was receiving help from a debt counsellor. The email  
exchange I have  read tells me that Mrs C decided  not to use the debt management 
company, because of the cost to her of doing  that, and she negotiated  a repayment plan with 
Pounds to Pocket directly.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mrs C and Pounds to Pocket said and thought  
Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator was aware that Mrs C had been a 
customer of the sister company, QuickQuid, and had a lending history  on which Pounds  to 
Pocket was able to draw.  The records for QuickQuid showed that Mrs C had been  having 
trouble repaying  loans  before she applied  for the Pounds to Pocket instalment loan. 
So our adjudicator thought that Pounds to Pocket  ought to have made more thorough and 
therefore proportionate checks before approving the loan. If these checks  had been  done 
Pounds to Pocket would have seen  that this loan should not have been given to Mrs C.
Our adjudicator recommended  Pounds to Pocket put things right by doing as follows:  
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs C had paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement; (There followed  a short paragraph  about the tax element which  I do not 
set out here.)
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mrs Cs credit  file.
Pounds to Pocket agreed in full and as well as doing  the above  it offered to remove  the loan 
from Mrs Cs credit  file. 
Mrs C rejected the offer and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  But it does 
appear that the complaint  has been  resolved in principle and the outstanding issue relates to 
the detail of the offer from Pounds  to Pocket to Mrs C. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
Ref: DRN94437232without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. A lender should  gather enough 
information for it to be able to make an informed decision  on the lending. Although the 
guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list a number of 
things a lender  could  take into account before  agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into 
account a number of different things, including how much was being  lent and when the sum 
being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Having reviewed the details of the case and the financial  circumstances surrounding  Mrs Cs 
situation in December 2011 then I agree  with our adjudicator and for the reasons she has 
given. Pounds  to Pocket agrees with the complaint being upheld. And so the matter  to 
resolve is the recommended redress and actions.
Mrs C has concerns surrounding the fact that even  after the refund of interest plus 8% there 
will be a set off  the monies calculated to be refunded to her would be set off against the 
outstanding principal sum she owes to Pounds to Pocket. 
Mrs C does not think that the refund  is enough. She did ask at one point for the principal 
sum to be written off so that would  leave her with nothing to repay to Pounds  to Pocket. But 
after explanation by our adjudicator as to why we would not normally ask a business  to do 
that, Mrs C seems to have understood and accepted that point.
Mrs C has explained her circumstances and I empathise.  However, I reiterate the fact that 
the principal sum will need to be repaid.  Mrs C was repaying it slowly. I am unclear whether  
this is continuing.  Id expect Pounds to Pocket to treat Mrs Cs request  for a further 
repayment plan in a positive and sympathetic  light if a fresh  one needs to be set up. 
So I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and endorse the Pounds to Pocket offer. I set out below what  
I think Pounds to Pocket needs  to do to put things right. I have included its offer to remove 
reference to the loans  from Mrs Cs credit  file as that is what  it has said it would do. 
what Pounds to Pocket should do to put things right
refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of the loan; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest* on the above refunded 
sums from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove all reference to the loan from Mrs Cs credit file as offered by Pounds  to 
Pocket. 
Pounds to Pocket is entitled to apply any monies arising from the redress  against any 
monies Mrs C may owe it, but this should  only be in respect of the principal  sum borrowed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Pounds  to 
Pocket intends to apply  the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so 
after deducting the tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as 
Pounds to Pocket,  should do as I have set out above. 
Ref: DRN94437233Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9443723