K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains, with the help of a representative, that he was advised by Neovision  Global  
Capital Limited (then The TJM Partnership  Ltd referred to hereinafter as Neovision) to invest 
in high risk unregulated investments which were  not suitable for him and that the risks 
involved were not explained to him.
Background
Mr C appears  to have been  referred to Neovision by an unregulated introducer.
A SIPP application form submitted to a SIPP provider (SIPP provider A) confirmed that:
The source of the funds was a transfer  from another arrangement.
The investment  strategy  was stockbroking/trading account (nominee account) to be 
provided by Neovision.
Mr C did not wish to waive his cancellation rights.
There is no date or adviser listed on this. Based  on Mr Cs submissions this was 
recommended by a different business.  
Mr Cs existing pension provider issued a transfer certificate on 15 December  2014,  this
confirmed that, SIPP  provider A was the receiving  scheme.
Neovision was named on a platform application  form as the investment adviser. The 
application form was signed on 18 December 2014.  A limited power of attorney was granted 
to Neovision  within the application form to allow it to perform transactions within the 
providers terms of business, including making  investments on Mr Cs behalf.
The Neovision  fact-find was dated 19 December 2014. Under  knowledge and experience 
Mr C was asked how many  times  he had traded in futures, options, cash  equities,  
commodities, forex or CFDs in the last twelve months, he responded:
none  looking to become more active
It was noted that he traded in penny  stocks three times annually.
Under Investment, Suitability and Objectives it was noted:
He was looking to invest  for ten years.
His financial objectives  were  speculation  and capital growth on funds.
He would not take a cautious  approach to trading  with Neovisions guidance.
From  1-10 in terms of investment experience with 1 being inexperienced and 10 
being very experienced, he was 1.
The source of funds was listed as his SIPP.
A second SIPP application form was signed  on 19 December 2014,  this confirmed that:
Mr C was 45.
He was self-employed earning  over £100,000.
Neovision was to be appointed as investment adviser in respect of the SIPP
Amount to be invested: £114,000.
Ref: DRN90088012The intended investments were listed  as FTSE100,  EUROSTOXX, DJ and NASDAQ  
indices, including  CFD (Contracts for Difference).
The transfer was from SIPP provider A.
On 19 December 2014, Mr C signed a risk warning form, this said:
We are in receipt of your application  to open  an account on the [name of provider] 
trading platform using SIPP funds as trading collateral.
On the basis of the information that you have supplied  on your application form in 
relation to your knowledge and experience, we consider that FX & CFDs are not 
appropriate products  for you.
If you still wish to proceed to open and trade  on the account with us, you should 
consider carefully  the fact that you may be exposing  yourself to risks that you may 
not have the knowledge  and experience to assess properly or control.  You should 
also ensure that you familiarise  yourself with the products and fully understand the 
nature and risks involved. You should seek independent advice if necessary.
On the same  date SIPP provider  A wrote to Mr C confirming that it had received the 
transfers into his SIPP  and awaited  investment instructions.
Also, on 19 December 2014,  Neovision  wrote  to Mr C, it said:
May we take this opportunity to formally welcome  you to [Neovision] and thank you 
for choosing  our services  and products for your investment requirements.
And
Your account is set up as a Retail Advisory  client, and as such  we will be advising 
you either by telephone  and/or email  to discuss and obtain your agreement to trade & 
invest with the following:
The potential positives  & negatives on each trade idea,  stop loss and 
profit taking levels, and we aim to produce about  1-1.5% return per month 
in overall trading,  and 12% conservatively annualised.
The main areas  of our trading will be FTSE100, Euro Stoxx, Dow Jones 
Nasdaq Stocks and Indices, using CFDs and will have a maximum of 4x 
gearing or leverage on clients funds and all positions are constantly 
monitored by the Traders at [Neovision] .

Your SIPP Transfer is going through the normal procedures, and once your [name of 
platform provider] SIPP Trading account is formally  opened you will be issued with 
your unique ID for on-line  access. At this stage you will be requested  to kindly  
instruct your funds into your [name  of provider] Trading Account  for the Investment 
and Trading models to be deployed.
We have been  provided a copy  of the details from a transfer system,  this said:
Transfer creation  date: 7 January 2015
Ref: DRN90088013Adviser Firm Name:  [Neovision]
Ceding Contract Details:  [name of SIPP provider A]
The second  SIPP  provider  (SIPP  provider B) wrote to Mr C it confirmed:
It had received all of the paperwork  necessary  to process  the application.
Mr C had the right to cancel the SIPP within 30 days of the letter  but said:
However, before you take any action,  we strongly  recommend  that you contact
[name of adviser] at [Neovision]  for further  independent advice.
On 14 January 2015, SIPP provider B wrote  to the schemes administrator to confirm  that it
had transferred around £115,000 to it, this also said:
This payment represents the full value of the clients SIPP fund and please  note that 
as the policy  was a SIPP there may be subsequent payments that come  relating to 
interest accrued  or investment income.
Mr C signed a The [name  of SIPP provider B]  Instruction to SIPP Trustee  [name of 
platform] on 30 January  2015. This instructed it to establish an investment portfolio with the 
platform provider and transfer around  £34,000, it also confirmed  that he had received advice 
in relation to this transaction  from Neovision.
On 7 April 2015,  Mr C emailed Neovision asking it to move his money  back to the SIPP  bank 
account because  he was unhappy  with its services and charges.
Neovision responded on the same  day it said that it was surprised by his request because  
his funds had grown  by 2% since the funds  had been received in January 2015   and, whilst 
that may not seem like an attractive  level of return, it was in line with its guidance  which had 
been sent to him. it went on to ask to speak to him about it but confirmed that if he still 
wanted to close  his account that would be arranged.
On 16 April 2015, a client fund withdrawal request was signed  for funds to be transferred 
from the platform to the SIPP bank account.
The funds were withdrawn from the platforms portfolio and sent to Mr Cs SIPP  bank 
account, this was done in a number of tranches as the monies were disinvested/released 
from positions.
Mr C, it seems based on the suggestion from an unregulated introducer, went  to a different 
investment manager  (Firm B). He opted for the [name of Firm B] Model Portfolio:  Aggressive  
Growth, the application form was signed  on 15 May 2015.
On 16 June 2015, the SIPP administrator emailed  Mr C to confirm  that his new account had 
been opened and asking  him to confirm how much  of his SIPP fund was to be sent to Firm 
B. Mr C confirmed  that the full amount available within his SIPP  was to be sent to it. These 
funds were received  by the investment manager on the same day.
A few months later Mr C seems to have approached Neovision again. A Neovision bespoke  
brokerage fact-find dated 10 November 2015 was completed, this confirmed:
He had invested in cash equities  and CFDs for approximately two years.
Ref: DRN90088014Neovision and Firm B had been  his brokers.
He took advice and used managed services  to make decisions.
His investment experience was seven out of ten.
On 10 November 2015, Neovision wrote to Mr C confirming that it was satisfied he could be 
treated as an elective  professional client. The relevant form was signed by Mr C.
On the same  day, a discretionary investment management agreement  between Neovision 
and Mr C was signed.
On 20 January 2016, SIPP provider B emailed  Neovision to confirm that around £10,000 had 
been received  from Firm B, to confirm  if it should transfer the monies to the account under  its 
management. Neovision  confirmed it should. Further funds  appear  to have been sent to 
Neovision in tranches over time.
On 8 March 2017,  the SIPP administrator wrote to Neovision  requesting payments to cover  
an outstanding  amount  of £605.35 on the account.
The accounts under  Neovisions management  and the account  under Firm Bs management 
were valued  on 11 May 2017 at around  £37,000  and £8,000 respectively.
Unhappy with the performance of his pension and the advice  he received Mr C complained.
The complaint is described in the complaint form as being:
[Mr Cs name], a retail  client,  transferred £114,862.10 from his pension  with [name 
of ceding scheme]  into a [name of SIPP provider  A] SIPP.  He then transferred 
£114,934.49 from the [name of SIPP provider A] SIPP on 14 January 2015 into the 
[name of SIPP provider B] SIPP. As part of this process the client used the services  
of [Neovision]  for ongoing investment selection and management. Recommendations 
to the client were misleading and unbalanced.  [Name of platform provider]  markets  
stated that their FX and CFD products were not suitable for the client  however  
investments were still made. [Mr Cs name]  has confirmed that he had no investment  
experience prior to the transfer and that he was a cautious investor  and yet he was 
advised to invest  his pension funds into illiquid, high risk and unregulated 
investmentsHe has confirmed that the investments were  done on his behalf and he 
did not know what or where they had been placed  until he investigated later. He has 
stated that he did not have  an online facility  to check his investments  and found  it 
very hard to communicate and find out how his investments were doing until it was 
too late. [Mr Cs name] has confirmed  this was his only investment for his future.
When the complaint  was raised with us Neovision had not responded to the complaint. On 
25 April 2019, Neovision responded, it said:
Mr C identified himself to it as a professional client with an appetite for speculation
and capital growth on his funds.
In the signed fact-find Mr C confirmed and recorded his experience and risk profile.
The level of risk involved  was made  clear  to him and he confirmed he wanted to 
proceed.
At no time whilst with Neovision did Mr C invest in unregulated  products and the loss 
supposedly caused by it has not been quantified.
Ref: DRN90088015Mr C may have  invested in unregulated products after leaving Neovision, the 
complaint should be directed to that fund manager (Firm B).
It provided clear and balanced information,  Mr C was confident of his experience  and 
risk profile and he confirmed this.
Mr C did have access to his account  online.
After leaving Neovision Mr C appointed another investment manager and invested in 
unregulated products  which  later failed, Neovision cannot be held responsible  for 
this.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld. 
Neovision disagreed,  it said:
Mr C was introduced to it along with some other clients around November/December
2014.
He already had a SIPP when  he became  its client.
He invested  in equity CFDs   these were all for FTSE100  stocks Major Market 
indices, so they were  liquid.
At the time it was common for retail client to invest in CFDs through  their SIPPs.
When Mr C moved  his monies away from Neovision to Firm B his fund was only 
£1,657.20 lower than when  he invested with it originally, this drop is most  likely as a 
result of trading  commissions  due to the short time of investment.
In May 2015, Mr C moved away from Neovision to Firm B, as it understands 
investments were made in unregulated investments  and significant losses were  
incurred.
In November 2015. Mr C returned  to Neovision and still has an account with it, if he 
believes that Neovision advice  was inappropriate it is not clear why he would return  
to it to try and make up for the losses he had incurred.
It also maintained that the CFDs were  suitable for Mr C at the time of the original 
advice.
Because agreement  could  not be reached this complaint was passed to me for review. I sent 
Mr C and Neovision my provisional  decision explaining why I thought  the complaint should  
be upheld on 10 June  2021. I invited both parties  to make any further submissions they 
wanted me to consider. Mr C accepted my decision and Neovision didnt make any further  
submissions. 
I then issued revised redress and again invited both parties to make further submissions 
should they wish to. Mr C confirmed he had nothing further to add and Neovision didnt 
respond. 
Because no further submissions were made my findings remain  largely as outlined  in my 
provisional decision and as amended in my letter detailing the revised redress.  Ive set these 
out below.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. 
Ref: DRN90088016Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.  
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to 
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every 
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress 
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Neovision maintains  that the losses Mr C complains  about were incurred when he 
transferred his funds  to another investment manager   Firm B  and invested in unregulated 
investments. And that the CFDs were suitable  for him. Neovisions involvement did not end 
when Mr C transferred to Firm B, a few months after the monies were moved away from 
Neovision, funds were  moved back under Neovisions management.  It also appears that 
Neovision was acting  as the adviser in respect of the switch  from SIPP  provider A to SIPP  
provider B. It originally acted as investment  adviser in respect of Mr Cs SIPP, later it was 
appointed as discretionary manager.
There are significant differences between the first fact-find completed by Neovision and the 
second one which was completed  after Mr C returned to it from Firm B in November 2015 
despite the short amount  of time between the two and there  being  no obvious significant  
change in Mr Cs circumstances.
Mr Cs investment experience went from one on a scale of one to ten to a seven on the 
same scale  within the course of less than a year and although there had been  significant 
numbers of high-risk trades made via his SIPP, this was all done  by investment managers. I 
dont think this would have resulted in a significant  increase in Mr Cs investment knowledge 
and experience. Given that Neovision  completed the original fact-find  it reasonably ought to 
have been aware  of these differences and the short amount of time between  the two fact-
finds, so it was well placed to identify  discrepancies  and/or inaccuracies  but, it does not 
appear to have done this.
It is not clear  why Mr C moved initially to one SIPP provider and then to another.  Based on 
the initial SIPP providers  response to Mr C it may have been because  it would not allow 
non-standard investments  such  as those Mr C subsequently made.
There was some involvement from an unregulated introducer in the background but 
Neovision was the investment  adviser in respect of the SIPP and was advising Mr C on how 
to invest his pension  throughout,  apart  from when  the monies were with a different 
investment manager.  Based on the information that we have, I think Mr C could have 
accessed suitable investments through SIPP provider  A. So, I dont think the switch  was 
necessary. Also, given the size of Mr Cs pension, his capacity for loss and the level of risk 
that would  have been suitable for him to take,  I dont think it was suitable  for Mr C to pay for 
ongoing active management of his pension  or discretionary management.
Ref: DRN90088017The purpose of Mr Cs pension was to provide him with an income in retirement. The switch  
and subsequent investments represented a very significant increase in the level of risk  
Mr Cs pension provision was subject  to. There is no indication that Mr C was a very high-
risk investor or that he had the capacity for loss to afford to employ such a strategy with his 
only personal retirement provision.
Neovision was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. All of this needs 
to be considered through the lens, so to speak, of the overarching principles for businesses  
 in particular,  principles 1 (integrity),  2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1 required Neovision to gather the 
necessary information  about Mr Cs knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment, his financial situation  and investment objectives.  This was to 
enable it to make a recommendation which was suitable for Mr C.
COBS 9.2.2 required Neovision to gather  enough  information to ensure that the 
recommendation; met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
Amongst other things, under the rules  applicable at the time of the advice, to fulfil its duties
Neovision had to know its client,  act in his best interests and give suitable  advice.
I am satisfied that I have  sufficient information to conclude  that the advice for Mr C to switch 
to a different  SIPP provider to invest a substantial amount of it in high risk complex 
investments such as CFDs was clearly unsuitable.  I think that suitable  advice would have  
been for Mr C to retain his existing SIPP and invest in suitable funds within  that or switch  to 
a low-cost alternative such as a stakeholder.
It has not been suggested that Mr C was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
act against suitable advice from his financial adviser  but, for the sake of completeness, I 
have thought about this. Having done  so, I am satisfied that if Mr C had been advised as I 
have found would have been suitable,  he would have followed this advice.
If Neovision  had given  Mr C suitable  advice at the outset  I am satisfied that he would not 
have ended up switching  to SIPP provider B and investing in non-standard investments. It is 
as a result  of Neovisions original unsuitable advice that Mr C was able to invest in the way 
he did but I do think that Firm Bs involvement  needs  to be taken into account and I do not 
think Neovision should reasonably be held responsible  for any losses  incurred as a result  of 
Firm Bs management of Mr Cs investments.
So, Neovision  should  compensate Mr C for any financial loss he has suffered as a result of 
its unsuitable advice,  less any losses incurred as a result of Firm Bs management of his 
pension. In addition,  I think  this situation  and the losses  suffered  to his main  pension 
provision caused  Mr C distress and inconvenience,  Neovision  should  compensate  him for 
this as well.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Ref: DRN90088018I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr C's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Neovision do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Neovision must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Neovision should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Neovision should  pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Neovision  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension  plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Neovision deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Neovision should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The monies 
switched to 
Mr C's 
existing 
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
Ref: DRN90088019of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Neovision totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Firm Bs involvement
To ensure that Neovision is not compensating Mr C for losses for which Ive found it is not 
responsible, it will need to work out how much Mr C lost from the funds  managed by Firm B.
Neovision can establish the total losses incurred  to Mr Cs pension funds under Firm Bs 
management and deduct it from his overall loss, as established  above, to arrive at the sum it 
owes Mr C. Or, alternatively, Neovision can make an allowance for any monies  that were 
managed by Firm B as a series of notional withdrawals and contributions for the purposes of 
the notional value calculation. To do this any monies from within  the SIPP that were  passed 
to Firm B for management would be treated as notional withdrawals as at the date those 
monies were  actually moved  to, and became available  for, Firm B to manage and invest.  
And, if adopting this approach, Neovision should also then credit back into the notional  value 
calculation, by way of treating them as notional contributions (and from the earliest date on 
which this became the case), any liquid  monies  held within the SIPP  that had been under 
Firm Bs management but then ceased  to be, such that they were  no longer available  to Firm 
B to manage and invest.
For the purposes of the notional value calculation then any monies which  mightve been 
invested by Firm B in holdings that subsequently became illiquid shouldnt be treated as 
notional contributions until such time as those holdings were readily realisable again. 
Further, if any such holdings are still illiquid then they should be treated as having a nil value 
for both the Actual value and Fair value  sides of the notional value calculation  (so if any 
such illiquid holdings  are still held, and if theyre  shown as having a book value of more  than 
£0 in a current SIPP valuation then, for the purposes  of ascertaining the Actual value of the 
total SIPP as part of the notional value calculation, these monies are to be treated as having  
a value of £0).
Ref: DRN900880110Neovision must provide  both Mr C and this service with a full copy  of its redress  calculations 
promptly after theyve been completed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get 
a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr C's circumstances  and risk attitude.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Neovision Global Capital Limited  should  pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Neovision Global Capital  Limited should provide details of its calculation  to Mr C in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9008801