K821x#15complaint
Mr V has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  handled his claim under his 
motor policy  following an accident.
background
In October  2017, Mr V was involved in an accident.  Initially he thought  the damage was 
minor so wasnt going to claim  under his policy. So his main dealer recommended a repairer 
for Mr V to go to. 
He agreed the estimate and asked for some other repairs  to be done  at the same time. 
However, the repairer then said the damage  was far more that they initially  thought. So Mr V 
decided he needed  to make a claim  under  his policy and he informed UKI. 
UKI got its approved repairers to go and collect the car from Mr Vs repairers. However, they 
wouldnt release  the car to UKI without storage charges being paid. So then, nothing  
happened until Mr V complained to UKI. UKI then decided to send  out an engineer  to look at 
his car and that engineer  further advised Mr V that UKI would not have chosen this repairer.
UKI then made a cash in lieu offer for the costs of the repairs  to his car in the sum of 
£2,233.81 so he could get the repairs done himself. But Mr V said the costs of the repairs  
were much higher than this and it wasnt enough. So Mr V complained  again.
His repairer said Mr V should  get his own engineer to assess  the damage so Mr V did. That 
engineers estimate  was similar to the original repairers estimate. But UKI didnt  increase  its 
cash in lieu offer. However,  it did offer Mr V £150 compensation and offered to consider the 
storage charges from 15 December 2017 onwards.
Mr V remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator thought  his 
complaint should  be upheld.  She thought UKI should pay and further £991.19 to cover  the 
repair costs, with interest from the date of its initial cash in lieu payment to the date of 
settlement. And add £50 more compensation 
UKI disagreed so Mr Vs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
The accident  was Mr Vs fault and there  was no one else involved. It happened at time when 
his wife was seriously  ill  she died in March 2018.  Mr V didnt think  the accident had caused 
much damage and he asked his main dealer to recommend somewhere to repair it. Given  
these circumstances,  I dont consider that to be unreasonable.
When this recommended repairer found  the damage  was more extensive than originally 
thought Mr V then made a claim under his policy. Sadly, this recommended repairer required 
UKI to discharge storage  charges before it released the car. And instead of working with Mr 
V then, UKI just did nothing.  Mr V said it took him from 29 November 2017  to 5 February to 
reach the cash in lieu settlement. I consider this very unreasonable.  I also consider it more 
unreasonable given Mr V was obviously dealing with his wifes terminal  illness at this time 
Ref: DRN91573122too, which UKI knew. Mr V didnt need to take up the courtesy car option, as he had his 
wifes car to use since she was too ill to drive it. UKI were  aware  of this. So I agree UKI 
should pay Mr V a total of £200  compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him in 
dealing with his claim.
Turning to the cash in lieu settlement, Mr V was left in a situation that his car wasnt being 
repaired due to these  storage charges.  UKI finally sent an engineer out to estimate the costs  
of repair, it bore little relation to his repairers  estimate where his car was effectively being 
kept. That meant Mr V had the added trouble of having  to get his own independent  
engineers view. That came out matching the original estimate more reasonably. 
We looked at all three estimates and the adjudicator fully detailed the differences in UKIs 
report in her view. And I agree a reasonable figure  given the issue of sill work not needing to 
be done, for the repairs from the accident to be £3,500, less the policy  excess. That means  I 
consider UKI owes Mr V a further  £991.19  for his cash  in lieu settlement.  Interest  should  be 
added to this sum.
As Mr V got his car repaired  at his original repairers,  he confirmed he wasnt  charged any 
storage charges. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr V a further £991.19 cash  in lieu settlement.
Add interest of 8% simple from the date of its initial cash in lieu payment to the date 
it pays him.*
Pay Mr V a further £50 compensation ensuring  the total compensation paid to him is 
£200.
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9157312