K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with costs  for legal  work  that have been charged  to their 
mortgage account with Pepper (UK) Limited  (which trades as Engage Credit).
background
Mr and Mrs P question  the legitimacy of the following  amounts added  to their mortgage  
balance:
Solicitor interim  legal  fees of £385.60,  applied on 7 August 2015;
Solicitor interim  legal  fees of £19.20,  applied  on 19 August 2015; and
Solicitors costs of £50, applied on 26 October  2015.
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Engage  hasnt been able to provide copies of the invoices 
for the interim legal fees, which  would evidence that the costs were  actually incurred and 
what they relate to. And they say the £50 costs ought to be removed as they relate to legal 
action that shouldve been withdrawn   a point about which Engage  has already upheld in 
response to a previous complaint. 
Engage says its not done anything wrong. It says it doesnt have invoices  for the interim  
legal fees, which relate  to work instructed by the previous loan owner.  While the £50 costs 
were applied to the account after it took over administration of the account, it says this was 
for work instructed by the previous loan owner  and wasnt  related to the legal action that 
Mr and Mrs P connect it to. It has an invoice from solicitors for that work, and says the cost 
was legitimately passed on to Mr and Mrs P.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said:
Shed  asked Engage for copies of the invoices, but it didnt have them. It said it 
couldnt get them from the previous loan owner as it had ceased  trading,  which  our 
investigator thought  was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P had referred a complaint to our service  about the fees and charges 
applied to their mortgage previously. And under that complaint, one of our 
ombudsmen had decided that the interim  legal  fees in question  had been fairly 
applied. So she didnt  think we could  look any further into that now.
The £50 fee had been for work carried out by solicitors on behalf of the previous loan 
owner in respect  of adjourning a hearing  date. While the legal action was 
subsequently withdrawn,  that was only because a payment arrangement  was agreed 
after the adjournment. Thered been legal work  carried out beforehand, so our 
investigator thought  the costs were reasonable. And she noted  that such costs were  
allowed to be charged to the mortgage  under the terms  and conditions.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept our investigators  view. They said that delays caused by our 
Service had prevented the invoices being obtained  from the previous  loan owner. And they 
maintained that the £50 costs ought  to be reversed, on the basis that the previous loan 
owner had always  refunded  costs in similar circumstances. They added that Engage  had 
failed to notify them of the fee  and had it done so, they wouldve taken it up with the 
previous loan owner.
Ref: DRN90125282With no resolution, the matter was passed  to me to decide. And on reviewing matters, I 
found that the previous  loan owner  had provided  the invoices at issue to our Service during 
our investigation  of the previous complaint from Mr and Mrs P referred  to above. So we 
provided Mr and Mrs P with copies of invoices for the two sets of interim legal fees.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  last month, setting  out why I 
didnt think it should be upheld.
On the issue of the interim legal fees and the invoices, I said:
Mr and Mrs Ps main  concern  was whether the interim legal fees had been 
legitimately applied.  Understandably theyd sought  some evidence of the costs  and 
what they were for. When that evidence wasnt forthcoming, theyd naturally had 
greater cause for concern.
The previous  loan owner  shouldve had the invoices (and seemingly it had, at least 
until a certain point in time). It should then have sent them  on to Engage when the 
loan was transferred  (which seemingly it hadnt). Mr and Mrs P felt that Engage 
couldve done more  to try to get the invoices from the previous loan owner to begin  
with and I was inclined  to agree with that. It wasnt right for Engage to say that it 
couldnt contact  the previous loan owner  in this respect  there was an administrative 
arm that still functioned. But when I made the same  request myself, the previous loan 
owner told me it hadnt retained the invoices  so I didnt think this wouldve yielded a 
different result.
With the invoices  now having been  located and provided to Mr and Mrs P, I hoped 
this went some way to allaying any concern they had over the legitimacy of the costs 
 although I appreciated it wasnt the outcome they were  hoping for. While I was 
sorry for the delay  in reaching this point,  there  was now no basis  on which  I could 
reasonably direct  Engage to reverse the charges  particularly  as wed deemed  them  
to have been fairly applied under a previous complaint.
And on the solicitors  costs, I said:
Solicitors costs of £50 were applied to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage on 26 October 2015. 
The terms and conditions allowed for the lender to recover expenses,  such as legal 
costs, from Mr and Mrs P  and to do so by way of adding  them  to the mortgage  
balance.
Engage had provided us with a copy of the invoice for these  costs,  which  was dated 
15 September 2015. It detailed this as the court fee for adjourning a hearing. 
So the key question here was whether it was reasonable for these costs to have 
been applied  to the mortgage. And I thought  it was. Under the previous complaint 
from Mr and Mrs P, wed considered the issue of whether it had been fair for the 
previous loan owner to have initiated these proceedings  and decided  that it was. I 
didnt think there  was any new information or evidence that would lead me to reach a 
different conclusion on that. And the amount itself didnt seem  unreasonable, being  a 
set fee for dealing  with the administration  involved in adjourning a hearing. 
Ref: DRN90125283Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy that theyd not been notified of the costs  sooner. The 
adjournment was in August 2015, they were applied that October and I thought  Mr 
and Mrs P had been aware of them by that December at the latest.  I didnt think  there  
was any significant  delay there.  And I didnt think any slight delay wouldve had much 
of an impact. The account had been  transferred to Engage  in mid-September, so it 
seemed it would always have been  its decision (rather than that of the previous loan 
owner) as to whether  the costs should  stand. 
Mr and Mrs P said that the previous loan owner had refunded  costs  in similar 
circumstances in the past. I thought  that was only likely to have been  done on the 
basis that the action to which  the costs related had been unfairly or unreasonably 
initiated  which  wed not found  to be the case. But even if I was wrong about that, it 
didnt follow that either  the previous loan owner  or its successor should be bound to 
keep refunding such costs  whatever the circumstances.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  evidence  or information 
for me to take into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information for me to consider, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So this final decision confirms my provisional findings  as set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019. 
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9012528