K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reduced his overdraft without notice and unfairly 
recorded a default on his credit file. He wants HSBC to remove the default  maker. 
background
Mr S had a current account with HSBC which had an authorised  overdraft limit of £1,250.
In February 2016,  a payment was made  into Mr Ss account which he didnt recognise.  Mr S 
went into a HSBC branch  and told staff that hed received a payment into his account which  
wasnt meant for him. HSBC blocked Mr Ss account  whilst it conducted a fraud  
investigation. At the time Mr Ss account was £920.79 overdrawn. 
Whilst Mr Ss account was blocked  he wasnt  able to make payments from his account. 
However, HSBC allowed  direct debits and some credits to continue. In June 2016, HSBC  
completed its investigation and removed the blocks. So Mr S was able to fully use the 
account. At the time the account  was £724.75  overdrawn.
On 8 August  2016, HSBC wrote to Mr S explaining  that they hadnt received  a payment from 
him towards  his overdraft  since  2 June 2016. HSBC asked Mr S to contact  them to discuss 
his overdraft and make a payment as soon  as he could. On 18 August 2016, HSBC  sent 
another letter to Mr S. HSBC explained  that it expected to see regular  payments  into his 
overdrawn account. And it asked Mr S to get in touch with them to discuss his account as 
soon as possible. The letter also explained that if Mr S didnt get in touch his overdraft may 
be cancelled  and a formal demand issued  for repayment of the full overdraft  amount.
Mr S didnt contact HSBC. So on 12 September 2016, HSBC  wrote to Mr S to let him know  it 
had cancelled his overdraft. HSBC asked Mr S to contact them  and arrange  a repayment 
plan. On 24 September 2016, Mr S made two payments  into his account  of £15.17 and 
£50.50. 
On 13 October 2016, HSBC wrote to Mr S asking him to make a payment towards his 
overdraft. And it asked him to get in touch to sort out repayment.  The letter warned Mr S that 
he may be issued with a final demand. On 24 October 2016,  Mr S made a payment of £50 
into his account.  On 26 October  Mr S rang HSBC to talk about  his account. He asked  HSBC  
to reinstate his overdraft  because hed made payments into the account as requested.  The 
advisor wasnt able to access Mr Ss account information. So Mr S said hed go into a branch  
to discuss his overdraft.
On 14 November 2016, HSBC wrote  to Mr S. His account was £947.60  overdrawn.  HSBC 
asked Mr S to repay the debt in full immediately. On 18 November 2016, Mr S contacted  
HSBC to discuss repaying his overdraft.  HSBC offered to arrange a repayment plan. But 
Mr S didnt want to enter into a repayment  plan. He wanted to settle the debt on his own 
terms, which was to save up the money  he owed. And pay it off in a lump  sum. 
On 21 November 2018 Mr S went into a branch.  He told HSBC  that he hadnt wanted to put 
money into his account until the fraud  investigation  had been  sorted  out. HSBC  explained  
that the investigation had been completed  and that it had already made Mr S aware  of the 
situation when  he visited a branch in June 2016.
Ref: DRN98887022On 12 December 2016, HSBC wrote  to Mr S to explain  that he needed  to repay  £947.60 and 
that he was no longer  able to use his debit card.  On 16 December 2016, Mr S contacted  
HSBC. He was offered  a repayment plan.  But he declined and said he wanted to make 
repayments on his own terms.  On 29 December 2016, HSBC sent Mr S a default notice. And 
a final demand letter  on 14 February  2017.  
Mr S moved address and asked the Post Office to forward his mail onto his new address 
from 30 December 2016. But the Post Office made a mistake and didnt forward his mail. So 
he didnt receive  the default notice and final demand  letter.  He says he didnt inform  HSBC 
about his address change  because he felt harassed  and threatened  by them  when trying  to 
recover the debt.
Mr S says HSBC hasnt treated him fairly  because it didnt give him enough notice to repay 
his overdraft. He says this made things hard for him financially and caused him a great  deal 
of stress. He wants HSBC  to remove the default  marker from his credit  file. 
Mr S complained to HSBC. It said it had complied with the terms and conditions  of the 
account. And it had acted  correctly when it applied the default marker.  HSBC also said it had 
tried to speak to Mr S about the debt without success. Unhappy  with this response,  Mr S 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He accepted that some of the letters from HSBC 
had gone to an old address for Mr S. But he thought  that, regardless of this, Mr S had been  
aware that he needed to pay off his overdraft.  So HSBC had been entitled  to withdraw the 
overdraft and place  a default  marker  on Mr Ss credit file. He also thought HSBC had acted 
fairly in trying to arrange a repayment plan. Mr S disagreed.  So the complaint has come  to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S is upset. Im sorry this has been a stressful  situation  for him. 
I can also appreciate that Mr S is understandably worried about how this will affect his future. 
And that it would help him if HSBC removed  the default from his record. But I dont think 
HSBC has done  anything wrong.  And Ill explain why.
The account  terms and conditions state: overdrafts  are a short-term  way to borrow money. 
You must make regular payments into your account  and tell us straight away if youre not 
able to do this.  Having considered the timeline of events, Im satisfied that HSBC gave Mr S 
opportunities to bring the balance of his account up to date  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. It also communicated  with him throughout which included offering 
him a repayment plan.  So I dont think HSBC treated Mr S unfairly when it removed his 
overdraft facility and asked him to repay  the debt.
Mr S says he wasnt able to make payments into his account because hed asked HSBC  to 
block payments in and out of his account  in February 2016, whilst it conducted its fraud 
investigation. And that HSBC didnt inform him about the outcome of its investigation. So he 
didnt understand  what  was happening  with his account. However, from looking at HSBCs 
notes I can see that Mr S visited a HSBC  branch  in June 2016 to discuss the fraud 
Ref: DRN98887023investigation. The notes  show  that during this meeting HSBC told Mr S that the blocks on his 
account had been removed. 
Of course I cant  be sure how clearly HSBC explained this to Mr S, but I think  its likely he 
understood he could make  payments  in and out of the account. I say this because from 
looking at Mr Ss account statements after this date, I can see he visited  a branch to make a 
withdrawal, made payments towards  his overdraft and direct  debits were being paid from the 
account. So I dont  think the fraud investigation  prevented Mr S making payments into his 
account.
Mr S says HSBC unfairly registered a default marker  on his credit  file. He says he didnt 
receive the default notice because his mail wasnt forwarded by the Post Office. I understand 
why Mr S didnt want to update HSBC with his new address  he says he felt harassed.  But I 
cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for Mr S not receiving the letters.  It was Mr Ss 
responsibility to update  HSBC with any changes to his address. So I think it was appropriate 
for HSBC to write to the last address he gave. 
In addition, I note that Mr S didnt change his address until 30 December 2016. And hes 
acknowledged he received all HSBCs letters  prior to this date. I can also see that after 
receiving these letters Mr S spoke to HSBC  on several occasions between  September and 
December 2016  about his account. So I think its likely he wouldve realised the importance  
of the issue, even though  he didnt receive  the default notice. 
Ive considered if Mr S not receiving the default  notice would make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. Im afraid  I dont think it would. I still think Mr S was told quite 
clearly by HSBC that the overdraft had to be repaid.  HSBC also made it clear that the 
account could  be defaulted. When I weigh everything up, Im satisfied  Mr S ought  reasonably  
to have known  his account was in arrears and the consequences of not repaying his debt. 
So I think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably when it applied the default. 
HSBC has a responsibility to report financial information accurately. So I would only ask 
HSBC to remove the record if I thought it been  registered in error. In this particular case, 
I think HSBC communicated  clearly  with Mr S about what would  happen if he didnt repay  
the debt. And I think HSBC gave Mr S enough  notice  before it registered the default. So 
while I sympathise with Mr Ss situation, I think HSBC were entitled  to decline his request to 
remove the default from his credit  file. The default  recorded on Mr Ss credit file is an 
accurate reflection of the account. So I wont be asking HSBC to remove it.
Ref: DRN98887024my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. Under  the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 March  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9888702