K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK plc gave him the incorrect  details for an overseas 
payment which  was then delayed.  He wants Santander to pay him £10,650 as compensation 
for this error. 
background
Mr S wanted  to make a transfer from an overseas account to his UK based savings account 
with Santander.  But after a few days,  the money hadnt arrived. When Mr S got in touch with 
Santander, it identified  a problem with the transfer.  The bank liaised with its overseas 
counterpart to sort out the problem. But it was nearly three weeks after Mr S first tried to 
make the transfer  that the money finally reached  his UK account.
Mr S complained to Santander. It seems the international  bank  account  number (IBAN)  
which uses a customers account number and sort code  Santander provided on Mr Ss 
account statement  was wrong. This was because his savings account was a historic account 
which didnt have a standard eight-digit  account  number  or six-digit sort code. 
Santander apologised for this error and accepted full responsibility.  The bank calculated that 
due to the delay and exchange rate fluctuations, Mr S had lost £613.84. It credited this 
amount to his account along  with £500 for the trouble and upset hed experienced. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and continued to write to Santander. In short, he asked for 
£7,500 compensation because he had no money  available to him for 21 days. He said this 
meant he couldnt make various investments or make arrangements for his sons  wedding. 
Mr S also said he was unable to pay bills, was under constant stress and lost 21 days of 
salary. 
When Santander didnt  agree to pay any further  compensation,  Mr S raised the amount he 
wanted from the bank to £10,650. He said this was because he now needed trained 
professionals to correspond with Santander.  The bank didnt agree to pay this increased 
amount either. 
So Mr S brought  his complaint to us. The adjudicator who looked into it didnt think 
Santander needed to do anything else. Briefly,  the adjudicator thought: Mr S was still able to 
use his account  to make payments before the transfer credited  his account; and, it was his 
choice to involve  trained  professionals. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators view. So his complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its not disputed  that Mr Ss transfer  was delayed  by Santander providing  an incorrect IBAN. 
Im pleased to see the bank very quickly accepted full responsibility  for this and apologised 
to Mr S. So what I need to decide is what Santander  should  do to put things right. 
Ref: DRN98868182Santander has paid Mr S £613.84 for the cost of the transfer delay and exchange  rate 
fluctuations. But Mr S isnt happy  with the £500 it also paid him for the trouble  and upset he 
also experienced. I can see he wants much more  than this. 
Mr S says he wants Santander to pay him £10,650 in compensation. He told Santander that 
because of the transfer delay he: couldnt make stock market investments; couldnt  book  a 
reception hall for his sons wedding;  couldnt  invest in a garage; couldnt inject money into 
his business; couldnt pay bills; was under constant  stress;  and lost 21 days  of salary. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss bank  account with Santander. I can see that at the time he first tried to 
make the transfer,  this account had a credit balance of over £50,000. The amount  of the 
delayed transfer  was just under £9,000. 
Given the amounts  involved, Im not satisfied the delay in the transfer being credited to his 
account would have stopped Mr S being able to carry out any of the activities  hes 
mentioned or pay his bills. At that time,  he already had far in excess  of the transfer  amount 
available to him. 
Nor do I accept Mr S lost 21 days  of salary. I dont doubt he would have needed to spend 
some time dealing with this matter. Indeed, I can see Mr S needed to visit a local branch with 
identification. But I can also see the Santander  branch  director  dealt with the issue 
personally and kept Mr S informed of her progress. So Im not satisfied he wasnt able to 
work during this period.  
I can fully appreciate Mr S would  have been  worried about the transfer being delayed. But as 
Ive just said, the branch director dealt with this personally, and kept him up to date with the 
situation. Also, this issue was resolved within a relatively short  time - just under three  weeks. 
Mr S also says hes had to involve trained professionals. I presume hes referring here the 
solicitors he appointed to write to Santander  in December 2018. It was Mr Ss choice to 
engage the solicitors  - one he was perfectly entitled  to make.  But he didnt have to do this. 
Mr S was able to bring his complaint to us free of charge. I can see Santander correctly told 
him this when it first responded to his complaint in November 2018.  It repeated  this in two 
further letters. So, theres absolutely no basis for me to ask Santander to cover  these  costs.  
Taking all the above into account, I think the £500 compensation Santander has already paid 
to Mr S is fair and reasonable. I would also note its more than I would typically award in 
similar situations. So, in the circumstances here,  Im satisfied Santander has dealt with 
Mr Ss complaint fairly  and reasonably. Im not asking it to do, or pay, anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9886818