K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr E, a named driver  on Ms Ss motor  insurance policy,  complain that AXA 
Insurance UK Plc has declined  their claim following the theft of their car. They want it to pay 
their claim. 
background
Ms S left a bundle  of keys, including the keys to her car, in the glovebox  overnight.  The car 
was then stolen.  But AXA declined the claim because of the keys in car exclusion in the 
policy. Ms S and Mr E thought this was unfair  as when  the car was driven away they said the 
alarm was sounding and the lights were flashing. They thought  this meant  the keys hadnt  
been used to steal the car.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the keys 
had been left in the car and AXA could rely on the exclusion to decline the claim. He thought 
there wasnt evidence  to say that the keys hadnt  been used to steal  the car after the thieves 
gained access.  
Ms S and Mr E replied that they thought the keys hadnt been used in the theft as the alarm 
hadnt been silenced when the car was driven  away. They asked  for an ombudsmans 
review, so their complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt that Ms S and Mr E are honest and truthful people. I can 
understand that the loss of their car has affected  them financially. Our approach in cases  like 
this is to consider  whether the insurers acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
AXA relied on the keys in car exclusion to decline the claim. Ms S and Mr E said their 
attention wasnt  drawn  to the exclusion. I think this is a common exclusion in motor  
insurance policies,  and I dont find it unusual or unreasonable. But it is significant and I 
would expect it to be set out clearly in the policy wording, which  I can see that it is. 
Ms S and Mr E were also directed in the policy  to take care of their car by removing the keys 
from it completely when it wasnt in use. So I think AXA made Ms S and Mr E reasonably  
aware of the exclusion and so I think it can reasonably rely on it when considering their 
claim. 
Ms S and Mr E said the car had been  left locked and with the alarm on. But they said the 
keys were in the glove  box. They said they were  awakened by the alarm  sounding  as the car 
was driven off. Ive no reason to doubt this and I can see that they then contacted  the police 
to report the theft.  They  thought this meant that a thief had broken into the car but the keys 
hadnt been used to steal it. But AXA said it couldnt say that the keys hadnt  been used to 
drive the car away. 
Ref: DRN98051642The car hasnt  been  recovered, as far as I can see. So theres no evidence to show how the 
car had been  stolen.  But theres no disagreement that the keys were in the car at the time of 
the theft. As the investigator has explained, the exclusion AXA relied on doesnt  say that the 
keys had to be used in the theft, just that they must  not be left in the unattended car. The car 
was on the driveway,  but clearly unattended at the time as Ms S and Mr E werent in a 
position to deter the theft. 
So I think theres no evidence to show that the keys werent used in the theft. The keys were 
in the unattended  car. So I cant say that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the 
exclusion and declining the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9805164