K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the increases on his premiums on his home insurance policy, held with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
background
In 2013, Mr B through  Santander, took out a Peace of Mind Plus Home Insurance policy. 
The policy was underwritten by Aviva and started in May 2013. It provided Mr B with 
buildings and contents insurance with accidental damage and it also included  personal 
possessions cover. 
It initially cost £413.49 for the year. 
The policys  cost increased  gradually over the years and in May 2017 Mr Bs annual 
premium was £661.37.
Unhappy with the cost, Mr B cancelled his insurance  in September  2017. Mr B complained  
to Aviva explaining that he had obtained  alternative  quotes for new insurance which  cost in 
the region of £120 - £180.
 
Because of this, Mr B says he doesnt think he had been treated fairly  and believes Aviva  
had taken advantage of him by unfairly  increasing the cost of the policy every year.  He says 
he was charged too much  and should  be reimbursed for the extra  he considered  he had paid 
over the years.  
Aviva reviewed Mr Bs concerns. It said the premiums charged over the years were  correct 
and were in line with the type of policy Mr B held and the cover  he had selected.
 
Unhappy, Mr B referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Aviva hadnt  treated Mr B unfairly. As Mr B disagreed, the matter  
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr B, so Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Within my role I can look at whether Aviva has treated Mr B fairly during the time he held his 
policy. 
When looking at whether Aviva has treated Mr B unfairly - I would need to satisfy myself that
Aviva had unfairly increased the cost over the years  - and this was due to Mr B not engaging 
with the renewal of the policy and not for any other reasons. 
Ref: DRN98631232Aviva has explained  that when  Mr B took out his policy  in 2013 it would have included an 
introductory discount. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially be priced  lower  to 
attract new customers. And I dont think its unfair for an insurer  to seek  to recoup that cost 
over the subsequent years. 
Aviva says the gradual increases in the premiums  each year, were due to the initial discount 
being recouped and the increases in Insurance Premium Tax. Having considered  the 
available information,  I agree, the increases each year were to bring the policys cost up to 
the true cost of the risk Aviva says associated  with insuring Mr Bs property, alongside  the 
levels of cover provided, under the policy.
So having  looked at Mr Bs journey, considering what Ive said above,  and given  Mr Bs 
policy was taken in 2013 and cancelled  in 2017,  I dont think Aviva has unfairly  taken 
advantage of Mr B. It was recouping the initial discount applied and wasnt  increasing the 
premiums because Mr B wasnt engaging in his renewals. 
Also, and importantly,  I would like to add that in the years Mr B held his policy  Aviva  wouldnt 
have known that Mr B wasnt the type of person  to shop around or wasnt  engaging with his 
renewals  that wouldnt have been known for some years.  
Mr B thinks  because  he got alternative cheaper  home insurance quotes  it shows he was 
being overcharged. I do understand why Mr B thinks this and why he thinks he may have  
been overcharged over the years he held the policy.
But I am mindful the new insurance quotes he obtained are likely to have included  a new 
customer discount. As I have explained  above, I think  it's fair that an insurer recoups that 
discount over the subsequent years. I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that 
discount for the duration someone  has their policy. So the new policy  quotes  Mr B obtained, 
while cheaper at the outset, were always going to increase in price.
And I must also bear in mind that the new policy quotes most likely provided different levels 
of cover and excesses than the Aviva policy Mr B had. I say this because  looking at Mr Bs 
Aviva home insurance policy schedules  I can see that he had chosen  comprehensive  cover  
in 2013 which continued into the subsequent  years  as it wasnt amended.
So, for those reasons,  I dont think it would be fair to compare the difference in cost between 
the policy Mr B had and the policy quotes  Mr B subsequently obtained. While Mr B, when he 
decided to shop  around in 2017,  obtained  cheaper  quotes  it doesnt automatically  mean  
that Aviva  had treated Mr B unfairly  during the years  he had the policy. 
Overall Aviva has shown that the increases in Mr Bs premiums were due to it recouping  the 
initial discount applied.  And as Ive said, I think its fair for an insurer to do this. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Aviva  increased Mr Bs premiums  unfairly  between  
2013 and 2017.
Ref: DRN98631233my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9863123