K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr S took out with a store  card in 1995. Its been  agreed 
that FICL,  as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity,  Ill refer 
to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr M says he never asked for the PPI and it was added without his knowledge.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mr Ss application  form for the store  card. This included a section 
on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show whether he wanted  to take it out. And 
the yes box has been ticked.
Mr S has said that he didnt tick the box, and said that anyone couldve ticked  the box. But I 
dont think theres enough  evidence here for me to say that the box was ticked against 
Mr Ss wishes.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think FICL  made it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about 
the PPI, and that Mr S chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mr S any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to him. This means FICL didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mr M. But it did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the costs, benefits  and main  exclusions of 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he doesnt appear to have been affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. And the policy  couldve paid out for longer 
than Mr M has told us he wouldve been  entitled to full sick pay. So it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  to him if something went wrong. And so I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI wouldve put Mr S off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN99324162my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9932416