K821x#15complaint
Ms G says MYJAR  Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans MYJAR provided to Ms G between December 
2017 and December 2018.   Ms Gs borrowing history based  on what  MYJAR provided is as 
follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest  
Repayment*
1 23/12/2017 18/02/2018 6 £400 £122
2 19/02/2018 26/02/2018 6 £450 £140
3 27/02/2018 01/12/2018 12 £700 £106
4 01/12/2018 25/01/2018 6 £325 £97
           *these amounts have been  rounded  up/down
Ms G has said MYJAR did not lend to her responsibly. MYJAR has said it completed  the 
appropriate checks before  providing  the loans.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Gs complaint and thought loans 1 to 4 should not have  been  
given. MYJAR disagreed  so the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN99361832There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. And I can see from what  we
know about Ms Gs finances that she had little disposable income (after the loan repayment). 
In order for Ms Gs loan to be sustainably affordable for her, she needed to be able to make 
the repayments on time, while  meeting  other reasonable commitments and without having to 
borrow again. I can see from the information MYJAR obtained before lending that Ms G had 
little income left over after meeting her usual monthly living costs and credit commitments.
Ms G declared monthly expenses of between £1,106 and £1269  against a monthly income 
of between £1,300 and £1,400 when taking  out loans 1 to 4. I thought MYJAR had enough 
information to see that Ms G was likely to have little to no disposable income left to afford the 
repayments on loans  1 to 4. Or at the very least the results shouldve  prompted MYJAR to 
carry out further checks.
For example, from what I can see of loan 1 Ms G had £194 left after paying her usual 
monthly commitments and had to make a payment of £122  to MYJAR. That would leave  her 
with just £72 for any unexpected expenses and leaves almost no margin  for error in terms of 
her declared  expenditure  which is after all only an estimate.
MYJAR had to make sure the loan was sustainably affordable. So I think  it ought to have
realised that leaving  Ms G with disposable  income  (after the loan repayment) was most
likely to cause her difficulties. So MYJAR  was wrong  to give loan 1 to 4.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms G paid on loans 1 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN99361833remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 4 from Ms Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Gs complaint. MYJAR Limited  should  put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9936183