K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that a loan she had from Oakam Ltd became unaffordable  and Oakam  did 
not respond fairly or sympathetically to her financial difficulties.
 
background
Miss J was approved for a £1,300 loan from Oakam on 6 June 2016. She needed to repay 
around £153 per month for 12 months. Miss J says that when the repayments  became 
unaffordable to her, she entered into a payment arrangement.  She says that, although  she 
maintained the repayments, Oakam unfairly issued a default notice and demanded full 
payment within  seven days. She says that making  the payment  has put her into financial 
hardship.
Oakam says it carried out a full credit check  at the time of Miss Js application and was 
satisfied, after talking  with Miss J, that it had no concerns of wider financial difficulties. It 
says it also validated Miss Js banking details and conducted a full income and expenditure 
evaluation. Based on all the available  information, Oakam  says it approved  the loan.
Oakam also adds that this service has already found  that it acted reasonably  when issuing 
the default to Miss J and that it gave  30 days notice to action the account, rather  than the 
seven days claimed  by Miss J.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He explained  that he 
was only considering the affordability aspect of Miss Js case and was satisfied that Oakam 
had carried out proportionate checks. On the basis of the available  information, our 
adjudicator found  that the loan was affordable and there was nothing  to indicate Miss J was 
in financial difficulty at the time.
Miss J responded to say, in summary, that the adjudicator hadnt considered that the loan 
subsequently became  unaffordable and that Oakam  was unfair to demand full payment even 
though she was sticking to the payment arrangement. She says she had to borrow further to 
make the payment and this was at a time when her financial priority should have been  her ill 
daughter who was receiving life-saving  treatment abroad.  Miss J adds that Oakam also took 
money out of her account erroneously on a few occasions and the small amount of 
compensation she received for this did not sufficiently compensate her for the distress this 
caused.
Our adjudicator explained that the additional aspects of Miss Js complaint had already been 
considered in a previous case that was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. As 
such, he said, this service cannot  reconsider  these  points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying  that, when making my decisions, I have to consider complaints  in 
accordance with the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, which  are set out in the Financial  
Conduct Authoritys  handbook. This allows us to dismiss some complaints without 
considering their merits  in certain  circumstances  if we decide its appropriate to do so. 
Ref: DRN90898882One such circumstance is when the subject matter of the complaint has previously  been  
considered [by]the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
I have carefully reviewed a previous complaint made by Miss J, for which an assessment 
was issued in December 2018. Miss J requested the closure of this case later the same 
month.
Within the previous complaint, this service has already considered:
The issuing of the default notice;
Oakam taking money out of Miss Js account  without her permission;
The misrepresentation of the amount owed;
The way in which the debt was collected  Miss J says the default  notice pressured 
her into making full payment, thereby creating further financial hardship;
The enforceability  of the debt due to inconsistencies regarding  the amount owed.
For the reasons  cited, therefore, I cannot reconsider the above points as part of this 
complaint.
However, the affordability of the loan was not considered  as part of the previous complaint,  
as Miss J hadnt raised this issue with Oakam at the time. As she has now done so, and 
Oakam has responded, I can now make a decision  on that aspect of Miss Js complaint.
Oakam was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have  made  checks to make  sure Miss J 
could afford  to repay the loan before it lent to her. Those  checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Miss J was borrowing, and her lending  history. But there was 
no set list of checks Oakam  had to do.
Miss J initially applied  for a £3,000 loan but, following affordability checks, Oakam  approved 
a loan for £1,300. I cant say it was wrong to do so. I say that because  Oakam asked Miss J 
for information about her income and expenditure and checked  her credit file. I cant see 
there was anything in the available information  that suggested Miss J was having difficulty 
managing her money, and her declared disposable income was over £760.  So Im satisfied it 
was reasonable  for Oakam to consider the monthly repayments of £153 were affordable to 
her.
I accept Miss J got into financial difficulties during the loan repayment period, but I find 
Oakam acted positively  and sympathetically  by agreeing  a repayment plan with Miss J.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9089888