K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Society  of Lloyd's wont  pay their claim under  their buildings 
insurance policy for damage to their underground  pipes.
background
Mr and Mrs C reported a claim  to Lloyds in August 2017 because they had a blocked foul 
drain. Lloyds  sent out a drainage company, who inspected the system and found it consisted 
of pitch fibre pipes. It found  that the system was in very poor order.  It said the pipework had 
degraded over a period  of time and that as the policy doesnt cover damage caused  by 
anything that happened gradually,  it wouldnt be able to pay the claim. It also added  that it 
wasnt covered under  the accidental damage to underground pipes term in the policy. This 
was because in accordance with the definition of that term in the policy,  the damage had to 
be sudden unintentional and unexpected,  and not gradual.
Mr C said this was unfair   he didnt know that his property had pitch fibre pipes and pointed  
out that there was no exclusion in the policy for such pipes. He also felt that the damage was 
sudden unintentional and unexpected.  He pointed out that there was a delay in getting a 
response in writing  he only received an oral response and this wasnt initially  followed up 
with a letter. Lloyds  apologised for this and paid compensation of £25.
On referral.to this service  our adjudicator thought  that Lloyds had acted reasonably.  Mr C 
didnt agree and referred to our technical  guidance  on our website, where we said that if the 
pitch-fibre underground pipes have failed following ordinary usage, we are unlikely to be 
persuaded that this is sufficient to establish  that the failure arose  as a result  of wear and tear 
- unless there is clear  evidence of this. 
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to be clear first of all as to under what grounds Lloyds is saying that the claim is 
declined. It said that "...the damage  identified to the pitch-fibre pipework which  serves  your 
property is faulty  and has degraded over a period  of time." And it further said that, ".. your 
policy does not cover damage  caused by "wear  and tear maintenance or anything  that 
happens gradually".
Looking at the drainage  contractors report, after using CCTV they found that the system 
was in very poor order, with restrictions and blistering up to 50% of the systems  capacity for 
the majority of the systems length  and impassable  in places with the CCTV camera. While  
the exclusion also refers  to wear and tear, Im satisfied  that Lloyds has declined the claim on 
the basis of gradual  deterioration. 
Mr C has referred  to our technical guidance  relating to pitch  fibre pipes. This says:
Where  the damage that led to the insurance  claim is likely to have resulted from a process 
that has taken  effect gradually over many  years,  and an insurer can show that: 
Ref: DRN98910602the policy contains a clearly-worded provision excluding loss or damage caused by 
gradual deterioration (or gradually-operating  causes), either generally or in respect of 
underground pipes;  and
the provision was adequately brought to the policyholder's  attention.
it is likely  that we would agree  that it is fair and reasonable for an insurer to turn down a 
claim for damage to pitch-fibre pipes - on the grounds that it was excluded as the claim 
resulted from gradual deterioration (or a gradually  operating cause).
In the policy  there is an exclusion as follows:
Your insurer  will not pay for:
.. .3. Gradually operating cause
Any loss, damage  or liability  arising from wear and tear or damage that happens  gradually  
over time.
I think that is clearly worded, and while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C couldnt  have known 
that their underground pipes are pitch fibre, because of the inherent flaw in the structure of 
those pipes a gradual deterioration was always likely to happen.  
I understand that the clause in the policy wasnt drawn to Mr and Mrs Cs attention.  I believe 
it was sold through  a broker who would have been responsible  for that. But I would just say 
that this sort of clause is standard in most home insurance policies, so I wouldnt expect it to 
be drawn specifically  to Mr and Mrs Cs attention.  Even if they were aware of it I doubt very 
much that a policy would  be available to cover the sort of situation Mr and Mrs C find 
themselves in. I know this is disappointing  for them, but an insurance policy  would cover  
damage to a pitch fibre pipe only in very limited  circumstances.
Mr C has said that he thinks the damage  is accidental, in line with the terms of the policy.  
The definition of accidental  damage in the policy is "Sudden, unintentional and
unexpected physical damage  caused  by an identifiable external means."
Again I think that is clearly  worded and although  Mr C argues that the damage was sudden  
unintentional and unexpected, I dont  think the evidence show  that it was caused  by an 
identifiable external means.  In any event the accidental damage  term is still subject to the 
overall exclusion for wear  and tear or gradual deterioration. So where its shown that the 
damage is due to gradual deterioration then the exclusion still applies.
Mr C has said that there  wasnt a specific exclusion for pitch  fibre pipes.  But there doesnt 
have to be. There may have been situations in which damage to such  pipes may be 
covered. But I don't  think it was in this case.
Finally Ive considered  the service Mr and Mrs C received in respect of their claim.  The claim 
was made  on 1 August 2017  and within two weeks Mr C was advised that Lloyds wasnt  
going to pay the claim.  He had to chase up the response himself and Lloyds agreed that the 
loss adjusters should have followed up their response in writing. For this they paid 
compensation of £25. Whilst I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs C were in a difficult  situation  as 
their drainage was blocked I think that Lloyds  gave its response fairly quickly. And I think 
that its payment  due to the failure  to follow up was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN98910603my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9891060