K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about an insurance  policy taken  out alongside a hire purchase agreement  
in 2008. The policy provided Mr W with life, and critical illness  cover. 
Mr K says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Black Horse  sold Mr W the policy over the phone  when he was purchasing a vehicle. Mr W 
says that it wasnt made clear that the policy was optional and that he thought  he had to 
have it to be accepted for the hire purchase agreement.  I dont have a recording of the call 
that took place,  but this isnt unusual given how long ago the sale took place. 
But Black Horse has told us that Mr Ws agreement would have already been agreed before 
it spoke with him. It has also provided  a copy of Mr Ws hire purchase agreement which 
doesnt include the policy to confirm this, along with a copy of the call script  which  was in use 
at the time. I can see that the script  shows that the advisor was prompted to present the 
policy as optional  and gain proper consent.  While  I cant  be certain  how closely  the script 
was followed,  I havent seen anything  to suggest that Black Horse did anything differently 
when it spoke with Mr W. So I think its most likely  that Mr W knew he had a choice in taking 
the policy, but I can understand why he doesnt  remember as it was a long time ago.
Black Horse  says that it recommended  the policy to Mr W  so it needed to check the policy 
it sold was right for him. I can see on the demands and needs statement that was completed  
at the time, Mr W opted to take less cover than was Black Horse had made a 
recommendation for. But based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that the policy he chose to take was right for him. For example, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the cover  and he seems to have had a need for it.  
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr W about the policy, wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take it out - it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better 
information about it wouldve put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. So Black Horse doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mr W paid for the cover. 
But Black Horse has offered to give Mr W back some of the cost of the policy. And I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think this policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN93340952Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9334095