K822xComplaint
Mr B, represented by Mrs B, complains that there are issues  with the car he acquired 
through a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc. He says he has been  
without the car for long periods of time and that adequate replacement  cars havent been 
provided.
Background 
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a new car in September 2017. In 
December 2018,  Mrs B says that the car was returned due to a fault. A repair was carried  
out but Mrs B says the car needed  to be returned  to the garage again on 10 January 2019 
and was not then returned until 4 April. Mrs B says that although she was told the fault had 
been fixed it re-occurred  a few days later. The car went back to the garage  and was returned 
again on 25 April when  again she was told the fault had been  fixed.  However the fault re-
occurred again  on 4 May and the car had to be returned again.
Mrs B says that they have been provided with courtesy cars while Mr Bs car has been  at the 
garage but that the replacement cars havent  been  like for like and given her family situation  
this has caused  undue  trouble and upset. She says that Mr Bs car is registered disabled  
and so isnt required  to pay the congestion charge but she has needed to pay this with the 
replacement car and that changing cars has been distressing for her children.
Mr B wants  to be compensated for the inconvenience that he has been caused  due to being 
without his car for extended  points of time and for the lack of communication  received while  
the repairs were being  undertaken. Mrs B is also concerned that there may still be ongoing 
issues with the car.
Vauxhall Finance  says that the first fault was reported in December 2018, 15 months after 
acquisition and that there had been no evidence to show  the fault was present or developing 
at the point of supply.  It says that while sympathising with Mr Bs situation,  it thought  the 
garage had acted fairly by providing courtesy  vehicles. It acknowledged  it was unfortunate 
that repairs were required  on more than one occasion but said these were undertaken under 
the warranty and so at no cost to Mr B. It says the disabled badge  was registered to the 
individual and so could have been used in the replacement cars.
Vauxhall Finance  did however agree with our investigators initial  view suggesting  a 15% 
refund of the monthly rentals for the period of time Mr B was without his car. This was due to 
the number of replacement cars that had been  provided and the upset this caused along 
with not all the cars being like for like.
Our investigator understood why Mr B was unhappy  with the time taken for the repairs  to be 
completed but said this was an issue  for the garage. He said that Mr B had been kept mobile 
while he was without  his car and while he didnt  think the replacements  were  wholly  
satisfactory he thought  the offer to refund 15% of the monthly rentals for the time Mr B didnt 
have his car was reasonable.
Mrs B didnt think the offer was sufficient for the time Mr B was without his car and all the 
inconvenience and upset this had caused.
Ref: DRN90294092My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a new car. Under the regulations  
Vauxhall Finance  can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Given the car was new when supplied, we would expect it to be free from faults, 
including any minor  defects.
Mr Bs car experienced issues in December 2018. This was around 15 months after 
acquisition and after the car had been driven  around 5,800 miles. The issue  was with the 
instrument cluster. Repairs were carried out under warranty but the issue  re-occurred. Given  
the time that had passed since  acquisition I accept that repairs were a reasonable remedy.  
These were  undertaken under warranty and so at no cost to Mr B.
In certain cases when repairs have not been successful there  can be a final right to reject 
the car under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  However, for me to say this should happen, I 
would need to be satisfied that the issue with the car was present or developing at the point 
of supply. Based on the information I have  been provided, I do not find I have enough 
evidence to say this. 
The complaint s in regard to the time taken for the repairs  and the service received  during 
this time. 
I can understand why Mr B is upset by the service he has received. However, this complaint 
is against Vauxhall Finance and I cannot  hold it responsible for the service provided  by the 
garage. Mr B was kept mobile while his car was in for repairs  and so I find it reasonable that 
he remained  liable for the monthly rental  payments. 
However, taking the unique  circumstances  of this case into account,  I understand the upset 
caused by having to use different cars and that not all the cars were  wholly  suitable  to Mr Bs 
familys needs. Therefore  I find it reasonable that Vauxhall Finance has agreed  to refund 
Mr B 15% of the rentals for the months he was without his car.
I note Mrs Bs comments about this offer not being  sufficient and her concerns  about the 
issue re-occurring. However I can only make my decision on the information available and 
not on the possibility of further issues in the future. As Mr B was kept mobile  I find that the 
refund offered is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vauxhall  Finance plc should, as it has offered, refund 15% of the 
monthly rentals for the months that Mr B was without his car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9029409