K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy about the advice given  by Andrew Morton  & Company Limited (AMC) to 
open a stocks and shares  ISA account with Transact and make  an investment of £10,200 
into the SWIP global bond. AMC was an appointed representative of Best Practice  IFA 
Group Limited (Best  Practice) and so Mrs C thinks Best Practice should compensate  her for 
what she now considers  to be unsuitable  advice.
background
AMC had been  Mrs Cs financial adviser  for a number of years. In 2009  Mrs C and her 
husband met with AMC and a fact find and suitability letter was prepared.  AMC 
recommended that Mrs C make an investment of £10,200 into the SWIP global bond  via a 
ISA stocks and shares account with Transact.  
After the ISA account was established and fees deducted, around £9,751 was invested  in 
the SWIP global bond. It was sold for around  £10,233 in November 2010.  
Mrs C now thinks  the advice to make this investment  was unsuitable.
Best Practice rejected  Mrs Cs complaint. It says that Mrs C had indicated  in the fact find that 
she was an adventurous investor  and that the advice to make  the SWIP global bond  
investment was suitable for Mrs Cs circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 October 2019  and gave time for both parties to respond.  
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I didnt  intend to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Neither party made any submissions in response to my provisional decision.  As such, my 
findings remain as set out below.
Mrs C is also unhappy about advice that she says was provided by AMC over a number of 
years in respect of other investments including subsequent trades made using  the stocks  
and shares ISA account. An investigator has explained to the parties in separate  
correspondence how we will proceed with the investigation of the other investments that 
Mrs C is unhappy about. This provisional decision is solely about the opening  of the 
Transact ISA account and the investment in the SWIP global bond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at whether the advice given here was suitable, I need to take account of 
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time including  her financial  requirements and objectives, her 
attitude to risk and her capacity to bear loss. 
The fact find and suitability letter  shows that in 2009  Mrs C:
Was 53 years old;
Earned around £12,000  per year as a secretary to her husband, a medical 
professional who earned  £270,000  per year;
Jointly owned a mortgage free home valued at around £1,000,000;
Ref: DRN97825942Jointly owned two buy to let properties;
Had joint cash savings of around £250,000;
Had existing ISA investments with Cofunds  valued at around £39,000;
Wanted to utilise her ISA allowance for a lump sum investment of £10,200;
Had an objective of growth for this investment rather than income.
Mrs C also set out that her attitude  to risk for this investment  was adventurous.  The fact 
find / suitability letter defined this in the following terms:
"People in this category accept a low level of safety and can understand and bear 
more specialised  risks that can be associated with overseas markets  and assets. 
Typically values will be subject to a number of different  risks and values will be highly 
variable with the potential for capital losses. An example would be funds linked to 
other western stock  markets and specialist UK equity funds".
Based on all this, AMC recommended the SWIP global  bond  via an ISA account with 
Transact. The suitability  letter  said of the bond:
The investment objective of this fund is to provide  a total return  by investing in a 
portfolio of predominantly fixed-interest securities. The Fund  will predominantly invest 
in bonds issued by governments,  public bodies  and financial  institutions from around 
the world.
The Fund may also invest in investment grade corporate bonds,  The Fund may also 
invest in other transferable securities,  money  market instruments, deposits, cash  and 
near cash, derivatives and collective investment schemes, and may hold securities of 
any duration.
Im satisfied that this was a fair and accurate description of the SWIP global bond. 
Looking at Mrs Cs circumstances and objectives,  I think the advice given  here was suitable. 
The advice to make  a tax efficient  investment  via a stocks and shares ISA account was 
reasonable and the SWIP global bond (managed by a large and reputable  fund 
management company)  met Mrs Cs aim for an adventurous  investment aimed at providing  
growth rather than income. Mrs C may not have  been  a sophisticated investor,  but she had 
substantial income  (jointly with her husband),  assets  and savings and the investment made 
here was relatively  modest. In other words  she had the capacity to bear capital losses from 
the investment.
As Ive explained above, we will look into subsequent trades conducted  using the stocks and 
shares ISA separately. But its worth noting  here that the SWIP global bond investment was 
later sold in November  2010 for a small profit. So although Mrs C hasnt made a great deal 
from the investment,  she hasnt suffered  a loss. 
my final decision 
For the above reasons, I think the advice  to make an investment in the SWIP Global  bond  
via a Transact ISA was suitable and I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Ref: DRN97825943Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9782594