K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr M bought  a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections  
Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of PPI), life cover  and critical illness  cover. 
The Life and Critical illness sections of the policy have been dealt with previously and Mr M 
has confirmed he is happy with the response  he has received from the business.  So Ive 
looked at the sale of the PPI cover  only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his mortgage. I dont know for certain  what was said when the policy  was sold,  
and there  isnt much paperwork  available, but from what we know about how Halifax sold 
this type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax made Mr M aware  the PPI was optional, 
and he chose to take it out, although I can understand  why he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the policy  was right for him. 
Mr M has told us he had substantial savings at the time he took the PPI. But the PPI would 
have allowed Mr M to keep his savings in place  to be used towards any other essential costs 
he may have had.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  25 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN97985112
Ref: DRN9798511