K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr W says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
PPI was added to Mr Ws account in 200, some  years after he took out his store  card. Mr W 
says PPI was sold in the store. FICL say it was sold over the phone,  after he took out the 
store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
 Mr W says he wouldnt have purchased PPI if hed been told all the facts. I think  the 
PPI was sold over the phone,  some time after Mr W took out his store card.  I say this 
because Ive seen  his store card application  and PPI isnt selected.  FICLs records 
indicate that PPI was sold quite some time after the card was taken out, on the phone. 
I think this more  likely based  on the limited information now available.
 I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr W and the person selling PPI on the 
phone. The call recording  is no longer available. From  what  we know about FICLs 
phone sales at the time, I think its likely  that FICL wouldve given Mr W a choice about 
whether or not to take the cover   although  given the amount of time thats  passed,  I 
can understand why Mr W may no longer remember this.
So, without anything else to support  what Mr W has told me I havent been able to 
safely conclude that FICL  didnt make him aware that the policy was optional  and he 
didnt choose  to take it.  
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt  have to ask about any employer  sick pay he was entitled to, 
or savings he couldve  used  to cover  his payments. It was for Mr W to decide whether 
or not the PPI wouldve been  useful  in his particular circumstances.  But,  I cant see 
that PPI wouldve  been obviously unsuitable for Mr W, given his circumstances. He 
said he wouldve got sick pay through work; six months worth of pay at full pay and six 
Ref: DRN90194832months at half. But, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this, allowing Mr W the 
opportunity to use his work benefits  to meet his other household expenses. Mr W also 
said that he had around £2,000, but I cant see that his other means made  the policy 
inappropriate.
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But its unlikely Mr W would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  him buying  it.
I cant see that Mr W has lost out because of anything that FICL  may have done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9019483