K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs A. 
background
This complaint is about PPI policies taken  out with two credit cards  in 1995. Mrs W applied 
for the two cards in the same application. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs A has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
I think Barclays made Mrs A aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take it  
although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. I say this because  the form, 
which Mrs A says she filled in and posted,  set out the PPI as a choice. The customer 
accepted the PPI by ticking a box, and I can see that Mrs As form has been ticked in this 
way.
Mrs A says that she made  the application  by post, and that Barclays gave her no advice 
about the PPI. Barclays says it isnt clear from their records whether the PPI was sold by 
post or in a branch. But it says that, because it isnt sure, it has assessed the complaint as 
though it was a branch sale, in which case it would have recommended the PPI as suitable  
to Mrs As circumstances. I think thats  a fair approach,  because  if it did make  a 
recommendation in this way, Barclays had to meet a higher standard  in the sales  process  
it had to find out about Mrs As situation and make sure the PPI was suitable for her.
But, if it did make  a recommendation  of the PPI, I think it would have  been  a reasonable one, 
based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped 
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mrs As full employer sick pay lasted; and it 
would have been in addition to any such sick pay or redundancy pay. Also it seems Mrs A 
didnt have savings,  and the PPI would have put of the time before  she needed to call on the 
family help she has mentioned. So the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks  like the PPI 
was probably affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. The information on the form 
wasnt as full as it should  have been, and I dont know  if other information was given at the 
time. But I dont think, in Mrs Ws circumstances, that full information about costs  and 
benefits would have affected  whether she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
Ref: DRN92346182This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI for one card,  and has offered to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI on the other card. This is because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Mrs A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it has not already  made the payment:
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays  should  also pay back  to Mrs A any 
extra interest she paid because  of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs A the difference  
between what Mrs A owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay 
Mrs A 8%* simple  interest  if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs A can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9234618