K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Consumer  Finance  Limited cancelled his direct debit mandate  
for his payments  under  a fixed sum loan agreement and that its recorded missed payments 
and a default on his credit file.
background
Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation  Consumer Finance in July 2015 
to pay for some  furniture.  It was an interest free loan with no repayments until March 2016  
and then 36 monthly repayments  of £59.02 which  were to be paid by direct  debit.  He 
switched banks and noticed in July 2017 that there  were two direct debit mandates  to 
Creation  one active and one inactive. Mr R gave notice to cancel the inactive mandate  but 
the active mandate was cancelled so his repayments  werent  collected. 
Creation Consumer Finance tried to contact  Mr R but hed moved and not given it his new 
address. Six repayments were missed  so it defaulted the account and sold the debt to a debt 
collection agency in January 2018. The missed payments and default were recorded  on his 
credit file - but when  he was contacted by the debt collection agency he cleared  the debt. 
He then complained to Creation Consumer  Finance.  It said that it had received a direct debit 
cancellation from Mr Rs bank which it acted  on and it attempted  to contact him by letters 
and phone calls.  Mr R wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained  to this service. Hes 
also made a separate complaint about  his bank.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that when Mr R 
switched banks in 2015 his bank  sent Creation Consumer Finance  details of his direct debit 
but Creation sent it back with a different reference (an additional letter)  so two direct  debits 
were set up. He said that Mr R reasonably  cancelled  the inactive mandate  in July 2017 when 
he became aware  of it but that the reference for it didnt match Creation Consumer Finances 
reference and he said that it had a responsibility  to check it with the bank. He recommended 
that Creation Consumer  Finance should remove the default and the missed  payments from 
Mr Rs credit file but he didnt think that it needed  to do anything  else as it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to ensure  that he advised it of his change of address. 
Mr R has accepted the investigators  recommendation but Creation  Consumer  Finance  has 
asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that it uses the bank  
account number  and sort code to identify the cancelled  mandate as the reference isnt 
always complete on the reports  submitted and it wouldnt  be possible to double  check all the 
requests it receives  on a daily basis. And it doesnt  agree that checking  with Mr Rs bank 
was an option.  It says that it tried to contact Mr R but he hadnt updated his personal details, 
as required by the terms agreed  in the credit  agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R became aware in July 2017  that there  were  two direct debit mandates  to Creation 
Consumer Finance on his account  one active and one inactive. He gave notice to cancel 
the inactive mandate but the active mandate was cancelled. Ive seen no evidence to show  
that Mr R intended  to give  or gave  notice  to cancel the active mandate. As a result  of the 
Ref: DRN96672912cancellation of the active mandate Mr Rs monthly repayment to Creation Consumer Finance 
wasnt collected.
It then made  reasonable efforts to contact Mr R by letters and by phone  calls. But hed 
moved and not given  it his new address (as he was required to do by the terms of the 
agreement) and the phone  number  that it had for him wasnt  correct. Six payments were  
missed and his account was defaulted and the debt sold to a debt collection agency. But in 
the circumstances that Mr R has described  I can understand how he overlooked the need to 
tell Creation Consumer Finance about  his new address. But if hed done so hed only have 
missed one payment  and it wouldnt have defaulted his account  or recorded adverse 
information on his credit file.
When Mr R was contacted by the debt collection agency in January 2018 he cleared the 
debt. I dont consider  that Mr R cancelled the active mandate  and Im not persuaded that his 
failure to tell Creation Consumer Finance about his change  of address justifies  the adverse 
information that its recorded  on his credit file  and the consequences that have arisen  from 
that.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  in these  circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to remove the adverse information about  the agreement that its recorded on Mr Rs 
credit file. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. And I order  Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited  to remove the adverse information about the fixed sum loan 
agreement that its recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9667291