K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about some disputed transactions  on her account which  Santander UK Plc 
has refused to refund.  She also complains about  the service she received when she 
complained.
background
Mrs T first raised a complaint with Santander  in 2011. She was complaining about 
transactions on her account from 2003 onwards.  There  was also a complaint about some 
charges on her account.  Mrs T said she wasnt regularly checking her statements at the 
time and that is why she hadnt noticed the payments.
Santander looked into her complaint.  It thought there may have been  a data merge of Mrs 
Ts account  with another and that might have  caused some confusion   but that issue was 
resolved relatively  quickly.  Santander also refunded some  charges on Mrs Ts account from 
December 2011  to January 2012.
It did not uphold  any other  aspects  of her complaint.
Further letters were sent by Mrs T  and a number of final responses  were sent to her with 
the last one being in 2013.  In a telephone  call in 2018, Santander  gave Mrs T referral rights 
to this service again  so our investigator  did not think her complaint was brought  to us out of 
time.
When our investigator looked  at Mrs Ts complaint, he concluded the following:
-we could consider  the complaint despite  Mrs T bringing it to us later than six months 
from the written final response letter in 2014.  This was because during a call 
between Santander  and Mrs T in March 2018,  she was given referral  rights again;
-Mrs Ts complaint about potential  data merges with another account  holder was 
being brought within the time limits which govern this service.  She was first made 
aware of the merges in 2012  and she complained  in 2013.  But he could not see 
any evidence that her account had in fact been merged with a third party.
-Mrs Ts complaint about the historical disputed transactions was partly  in time and 
this service could only consider transactions which occurred in the last six years.  In 
relation to these  transactions, our investigator  thought the evidence showed Mrs T 
had authorised them  but may have  simply forgotten  the details over the passage  of 
time.
-£250 paid by Santander  was a fair and reasonable sum of compensation and he 
wasnt going to ask Santander  to increase  on that.
But Mrs T did not agree with his view and so the matter  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92801932The conclusion I have  arrived  at is very much the same as the investigators   and for very 
much the same reasons.  He has provided  a detailed response  to Mrs T so for ease, I will 
summarise my findings using the same headings. 
data merge
I accept Santander  first raised the issue of a data merge  with another third party  account.  
But there was some  confusion over an account  which Mrs T held with her sister.  That 
confusion was rectified relatively quickly.  I have seen nothing  else to suggest that Mrs Ts 
account had been incorrectly merged with another person.
disputed transactions
The investigator pointed  out to Mrs T that this service is not free to investigate every  
complaint.  We are bound  by rules called the DISP Rules and which  can be found  on our 
website.  These say as follows at DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response , redress determination or summary resolution 
communication or
(2) more than: 
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other  
record of the complaint  having been received ;
So, this service can only consider complaints about  events  which  occurred up to six years 
ago or three years from the date Mrs T ought  reasonably to have become aware that she 
had cause for complaint.  
I think Mrs T would have  known at the time about these transactions because  they appeared 
on her statements  so I think the time limit of six years  applies here.   In those 
circumstances, we can only look at disputed transactions from 2005 onwards.  If there were 
exceptional circumstances  which prevented  Mrs T from raising her complaint sooner, I would 
consider those. But in this complaint,  Mrs T has told the investigator that she simply hadnt 
looked at her statements. I dont find these to be exceptional circumstances.
I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Mrs T made or authorised the transactions  
from 2005 onwards  for the same  reasons as the investigator has already highlighted.  The  
transactions were  sporadic, and many  were local to Mrs T.  A large transaction  for a holiday 
which she complained  about didnt appear on her statements so its difficult  to comment  on 
that.
Ref: DRN92801933trouble and upset
There have clearly been some delays  in the investigation of Mrs Ts complaint  but the 
£250 which has been paid is fair in the circumstances.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mrs T  but it does bring an end to 
what has been a lengthy complaint for her.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9280193