K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that the advice he received from Standard Life Client  Management Limited 
(Standard Life) to transfer his pensions to a self invested personal pension (SIPP) was 
unsuitable.
background
Mr P met Standard Lifes  adviser in 2008.  The paperwork from the time shows  that:
Mr P was aged 61, working  on a self-employed basis;
He didnt intend to retire until age 70, although this depended  on the availability of 
suitable contract work;
He was divorced,  with no dependants;
He had £40,000 as an emergency fund and approximately  £160,000  in 
deposits/shares/ISAs;
He was debt free;
He had five pension funds  three with Standard Life and two with other providers;
He was a low to medium risk investor.
Standard Life advised Mr P to transfer  his five pensions to the Standard  Life Wrap SIPP  and 
make future contributions to the SIPP. It said, in summary, that this:
Allowed him to consolidate his pension plans  to a single provider;
Meant he wasnt committed to the level of monthly funding as the payments could be 
stopped, started  or varied without penalty;
Could  take benefits from the SIPP at any time without a penalty;
Portfolio Management  Services would provide him with the level of service  and 
ongoing advice  required both in accumulation of his benefits and potentially  taking 
benefits via an income  drawdown.
The client  report sent to Mr P gave projections  showing  how his current investments might 
perform compared against the recommended investment strategy over 10 years.  It showed  
that his current strategy might provide Mr P with a higher  growth potential over a 10 year 
term than would be achieved using the proposed new strategy under the SIPP.
The documentation  also noted  that charges were higher under the SIPP  than Mr Ps current 
pensions. But the suitability report recorded  that Mr P had confirmed that he was aware of 
the difference in charges  but was prepared  to accept them based upon the additional service 
and benefits provided by Portfolio Management.
Following the advice from Standard Life Mr P transferred his pension funds to the Standard 
Life Wrap SIPP (less the protected  rights element of one personal pension,  which  couldnt  
be transferred at that time).
Mr Ps representative complained to Standard Life in 2018. It said that the advice Mr P had 
received had been unsuitable. But Standard Life didnt  uphold the complaint. It said, in 
summary:
Mr P had five personal  pensions,  which he wanted to consolidate to simplify  charges  
and administration.  It felt it fair and reasonable to assume that he would have a good 
understanding of how those pensions  worked  and their risks;
Ref: DRN94599592Mr Ps objectives and investment intentions were clearly established and discussed 
before suitable  funds  were chosen;
The risks associated  with the investment choice, charges, aims, benefits and 
regulatory requirements were fully disclosed  in the sales paperwork;
The charges  and ongoing  fees were clearly  considered and disclosed to Mr P at the 
point of sale;
Mr P was given ample opportunity to reflect  on the suitability  of the advice  given 
before going ahead.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt that Standard Life hadnt given Mr P suitable advice. She appreciated 
that Mr P wanted to consolidate his pension  plans but he also wanted  to achieve growth. 
She felt that if Standard Life had explained  that he was unlikely to achieve  the growth  he 
wanted then he wouldnt have transferred.
Standard Life doesnt agree with our investigators  findings and so the complaint has been  
referred to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 14 January 2020. I said, in summary:
Standard Life said that Mr P was seeking to consolidate his five pensions to simplify  
administration. And it said that Mr P accepted  the higher charges associated with the 
SIPP because of the additional services  and benefits associated  with the portfolio 
management service, which were really important to him. But Mr Ps representative 
argued that consolidation and administration  were  not on their own sufficient 
rationale to transfer the pensions.
Id considered what both parties have to say. And I noted  that the suitability report 
prepared for Mr P in May 2008 also recorded that another objective was to ensure 
that his pension funds were  invested in an appropriate  way to ensure the best 
potential for future growth to protect [his] long-term retirement income interests.  I 
was satisfied from this that Mr P was also seeking  to achieve growth on his pension 
funds.
Standard Life said that the risks and charges were fully disclosed to Mr P. And I 
accepted that he was provided with projections which showed that his current  
investment strategy might potentially outperform the proposed  strategy under the 
SIPP. But the projections illustrated towards the beginning of the report didnt take 
account of charges.  And the information  set out later in the report was confusing.  
Under the heading What are the potential disadvantages? the suitability  report  
said:
Based on a comparison of the effect  of charges, the projected  benefits at 
retirement on transferring  your pension fund to a Wrap  SIPP  are less than if 
they continued to be invested in your existing plans.
Details of the comparisons are shown in Annex B. The illustrative funds have 
been calculated  using identical assumed growth  rates  to clearly  show the 
impact of charges.
Ref: DRN94599593You consider  that the potentially greater net returns available through  more 
accurate asset allocation and rebalancing based on your personal objectives  
and risk profile, are more important than the lower charges that currently  apply 
to your existing plans.
In other words, the report appeared to be saying that Mr P has taken the view that 
the new investment  strategy would provide greater net returns  despite the 
increased charges.  But the projections didnt support this view.
As Mr Ps adviser, Standard Life was under an obligation to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable for Mr P taking account of his knowledge, experience,  
financial situation and investment objectives.  And, although the objectives of 
consolidation and simplification of administration may have been met by the advice, 
this was potentially  at the risk of Mr Ps objective of achieving  future  growth on his 
funds.
I was not persuaded that Mr Ps goal of consolidating  his pensions and simplifying 
administration outweighed his goal of achieving growth on his funds. In my view, if 
Mr P had understood that by consolidating  his pensions he was unlikely to achieve  
the growth he wanted, then he wouldnt have transferred his pensions. And so Im 
not persuaded that the advice  to transfer  his pensions to the Standard Life Wrap  
SIPP was suitable at the time.
I noted that Standard Life had said that, as Mr P held five pensions, it was 
reasonable to assume that he had a good understanding  of pensions and how they 
worked. It said that Mr P should be considered to be a knowledgeable customer. I 
took it from this that Standard Life meant that Mr P made an informed decision to 
consolidate his pensions and was fully aware that the additional charges might  
impact on growth.
Id considered what Standard Life has to say, but, having done so, I didnt agree. I 
was not persuaded that the fact that Mr P held five pensions or other investments 
automatically meant that he was knowledgeable about pensions.  And Id seen  
nothing else in the evidence supplied to me to lead me to this conclusion. I was 
persuaded that Mr P would have relied heavily on the advice he received from 
Standard Life when deciding whether to transfer  his pensions. So this didnt change  
my decision.
Although I didnt consider that Mr P was properly advised  to transfer his benefits in 
2008, I noted that Mr P did in fact take his cash free cash and started to draw down 
benefits in 2010.  Standard Life has confirmed that Mr P would not have been  able to 
drawdown from his three previous  Standard Life products, and I considered it unlikely 
he would  have  been able to drawdown from the two other pensions he held. So I was 
persuaded that he would have needed to transfer to a SIPP  in 2010 when he decided  
to take his tax free cash and draw  down benefits. And I was persuaded that 
Standard Lifes  adviser would have  recommended the Standard Life SIPP at that 
time.
Finally, I noted for completeness  that Mr P also transferred  his ISAs to Standard  Life 
as a result of the same advice. However, this did not form part of Mr Ps complaint  to 
Standard Life so, for the avoidance of doubt, I had not considered it as part of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN94599594my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life does not agree with my provisional  decision. It says, in particular:
the documentation demonstrated that a key objective for Mr P had been  to simplify 
and consolidate  his pensions;
the funds he held previously were  not best suited  to allow  him to maximise growth 
until retirement, as he wished;
Mr P was aware of the higher charges associated  with the portfolio management 
service and was willing to pay the higher cost for the possibility of ongoing 
investment advice, rebalancing and the opportunity for better growth;
The adviser had taken considerable time to understand  Mr Ps personal  
circumstances, goals,  risk and objectives. The recommendation was consistent with 
Mr Ps demands and needs and allowed him to take his pension benefits at any time;
It believes that Mr P hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the pension  
consolidation.
Mr Ps representative agrees with my provisional decision.
Ive carefully considered  what Standard  Life has to say but, having  done so, I havent been  
persuaded to change  my view, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.  And 
although I note that Standard Life says it doesnt believe that Mr P has suffered a financial 
loss as a result of the pension consolidation, this doesnt mean  that the advice given at the 
time was correct.
As I havent  been  persuaded  to change my provisional decision  I confirm it here.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr P back into the position he would have been  in, had he received suitable  
advice. In my view, it seems likely that Mr P would not have transferred his existing pension  
plans into the SIPP in 2008  had he been advised  appropriately. But I do think  he would have 
transferred his pension  plans  to the SIPP in June  2010, before taking his tax free cash and 
started to draw down.  As Mr P took his tax free cash on 21 June 2010 I consider it 
reasonable to assume that the transfer  would have taken place on 1 June 2010.
what should Standard Life do?
To compensate Mr P fairly Standard Life should:
(1)Determine the total notional transfer  value as at 1 June 2010 of the five 
pension policies Mr P held previously, on the following assumption:
that the amount Mr P actually contributed to his SIPP before 1 June 2010 is 
notionally credited  to his Standard Life Stakeholder Pension Plan;
(2)Determine the current notional transfer  value  of Mr Ps SIPP as at the date of 
my decision  on the following assumptions:
Ref: DRN94599595that the SIPP was established on 1 June 2010,  and the amount calculated  in 
(1) above was transferred to the SIPP that date;
that Mr P took 25% tax free cash on 21 June 2010;
that Mr P has taken  a regular monthly  income  from the SIPP from 
25 June 2010 at the same rate as he has actually taken income.
(3)Establish the actual  current transfer value of Mr Ps SIPP as at the date of my 
decision.
(4)Determine any loss as at the date of my decision  as (2)  (3).
(5)If there  is a loss, Standard Life should pay this amount to Mr Ps SIPP,  together 
with interest at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision to the date of 
settlement (if compensation is not paid within 28 days  of the business being  
notified of acceptance).
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. If Standard Life is unable to pay the compensation 
into Mr Ps pension plan,  it should pay that amount  direct to him. But had it been 
possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable  income.  Therefore 
the compensation should be reduced  to notionally allow for any income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement age.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax.
(6)Pay Mr P £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused  by the 
inappropriate advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Standard Life deducts  income  
tax from the interest  it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. Standard  Life 
should give Mr P a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN94599596my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Standard Life Client Management  Limited 
to pay fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9459959