K821x#15complaint
Miss D is unhappy because she believes that Hughes Insurance  Services  Limited  
miscalculated her refund  after she cancelled her motor policy.  She is also unhappy  that 
Hughes took too long to answer  her complaint.
background
Miss D renewed her motor policy  with Hughes in December 2018 and paid £335.  Six weeks  
later, her car broke down  and she sold it to a dealer. She cancelled  the policy with Hughes at 
the end of January. When she received her refund, it was for £197.40.
She complained to Hughes in February as the refund was less than she was expecting.
Hughes said that it had calculated the fees and cancellation charges in accordance with the 
terms and conditions.
Miss D was not happy with Hughes response, as she disagreed with their calculations.  She 
said she was told her insurance cost £1 per day and the £50 administration  fee for 
cancellation is all it would  cost her to cancel her policy. So she complained  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  Hughes had done anything 
wrong. She thought the terms and conditions were clear and allowed Hughes to charge £50 
for the cancellation  of the policy and to keep the cost of the breakdown  cover, which  
included motor legal expenses insurance.  She also listened to the calls and thought Miss D 
had been provided with accurate information about  the cancellation charges.
Miss D was unhappy with our investigators view, so the matter  has come  to me for decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Hughes has said that they calculated  Miss Ds refund based on their terms and conditions as 
well as in conjunction  with the insurer based  on the terms and conditions of the policy.  In 
order to decide  the fair and reasonable outcome this complaint, I firstly need  to consider 
whether Hughes  have  calculated the refund correctly and if they have whether it produces  a 
fair and reasonable outcome if this is all that Miss D receives.
The policy document says that if cancelling after 14 days  a pro-rata charge will apply for the 
period you were on cover. I have  seen a calculation provided  by Hughes that shows cost of 
cover for 54 days to be £42.60.
A £50 cancellation charge made by Hughes  applies if the policy is cancelled after the first 14 
days. And this was detailed in a document provided with Miss Ds renewal invitation entitled  
Information  about  our services, fees and remuneration. This also stated there  is a charge 
of £20 for arranging the policy. Finally, the product  information  document  provided for the 
breakdown cover and motor legal expenses cover after Miss D renewed the policy says it 
can be cancelled any time after the 14 day cooling off period: by informing your insurance  
broker, however, you will not be entitled  to a refund of the premium .
Ref: DRN98290652I can see that Hughes have complied with the relevant terms and conditions to calculate 
Miss Ds refund. So Im satisfied the refund Hughes has provided is in line with these.
I have listened  to recordings of the telephone  conversations Miss D had with Hughes  about 
cancelling the policy. And theres no mention of the cost of the insurance being  £1 per day.
In the first call Miss D spoke  to an adviser  Ill refer to as J. She told J her car was broken and 
she was selling it and wanted to know how cancelling the policy  would work. J said she 
could cancel the policy at any time and the cost would be worked  out on a daily basis  and 
that waiting to the end of the month  would not be cheaper. J confirmed that there  was a £50 
cancellation fee and said Miss D would  get a refund less this fee.
I think in this call it was clear Miss D was asking  what  it would cost her to cancel the policy.  
Therefore, I would have  expected her to be given the full picture  of what  would be deducted.  
The £50 cancellation fee was mentioned, but there  was no mention of the £20 set up fee or 
the £25 for the breakdown  cover.
I think that J should have mentioned that the premium for breakdown cover would not be 
refunded, especially as breakdown cover is included by Hughes automatically as part of the 
package they provide.  J should have also explained  the £20 arrangement fee would not be 
refunded. And I think if the adviser had mentioned these  things  Miss D would have realised 
she was going  to get a smaller  refund.
Miss D made a subsequent call after she had received her refund cheque.  She mentioned 
there was no calculation provided with the refund. I can hear that Miss D was frustrated,  
because she was expecting the deduction to be the cost for cover  plus £50. So its clear that 
she had interpreted what J said in the first call to mean that only £50, plus the cost of 
insurance would be charged.
Hughes representative on this occasion mentioned to Miss D that the fees were £45 extra. 
This was incorrect, as £25 of that was the cost of breakdown cover,  which was non-
refundable, but not a fee. This caused Miss D confusion and further distress to realise  that 
the total charged now amounted to £95.
So, although  I can see Hughes calculated the refund in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, I think Miss D was given incomplete information  in the first call she made about 
cancelling the policy, as she was given the impression she would only be charged £50 worth 
of fees. And in the second call, she was told the fees were  £95, which  wasnt strictly  correct.
So I think that Hughes could have done more to provide Miss D with clear, fair and not 
misleading information, in accordance with its obligations. The confusion  over how much  the 
refund would be clearly  caused her distress and she had to make  several  calls to Hughes to 
try to clear up the confusion.
Miss D didnt get a breakdown of the refund calculation until after Hughes dealt with her 
complaint. I think that Miss D experienced inconvenience because  Hughes did not explain 
the refund  calculation  or what was deducted and this caused  her to be upset and angry.  
And, even  when Hughes tried to explain how it had arrived at the calculation, it wasnt  very 
clear. Therefore, I think Hughes should  pay Miss D £50 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience all this caused her.
Ref: DRN98290653I requested further  information from Hughes, as the calls I listened to suggested  that Miss D 
would not have purchased the policy had she known  the full extent of the fees for cancelling  
it. The new information suggests that Miss D was provided with the documents Ive referred  
to above setting out the Hughes fees prior to renewing her policy, so I think  Hughes  did 
enough to highlight its own fees.
I have listened  to a call Miss D made following the receipt of the first renewal notice in 2018. 
In the call, she discussed the price of renewal,  but did not mention anything about  
cancellation. So there was no reason for the adviser  to mention the fees specifically.  But the 
abovementioned fees should have been highlighted prior to renewal.
As far as I can see, Hughes didnt highlight the fact there was no refund for cancelling the 
breakdown and legal expenses cover  it automatically included  as part of Miss Ds renewal 
before she actually agreed  to renew the policy. It only drew this to her attention after shed 
agreed to go ahead.  But, as Miss D clearly wasnt thinking about cancelling  her policy  when 
she renewed it, I dont think Hughes  failure to do this made any difference  to her decision to 
go ahead  on the terms it was offering.
Miss D has also complained that Hughes  delayed in dealing with her complaint. Having 
considered the evidence,  I can see that Hughes took eight weeks  to come  back to Miss D 
with their final response. This is within the period that is permitted for investigating 
complaints. So I will not be asking Hughes to do anything else.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss D has accepted my decision.
Hughes have  disagreed  with my provisional decision. In summary theyve said the £20 
administration fee is a one-off fee, and it doesnt  form part of the discussion around 
cancellation of a policy, as its paid when  the policy is renewed.  Hughes are concerned at 
the expectation to mention the renewal fee and the breakdown charge when a customer 
calls to query the cancellation of a policy. 
Hughes has also mentioned that Miss D did not want to speak  to a manager, as she wanted  
to put the complaint in writing. Had a conversation taken place Hughes says the manager  
would have been able to talk Miss D through the cancellation calculation.  
Hughes have  also queried the use of the phrase But the above  mentioned  fees should have 
been highlighted prior to renewal. They say that the 2018 renewal letter details the fees and 
lists the charge  for the Breakdown and motor legal expenses.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Hughes  response  to it.
Hughes have  said that they are concerned with the expectation that they will have to 
mention the renewal fee and breakdown charge when a customer contacts them  about 
cancelling their policy. I think each  situation depends on the customer, but I think all 
customers need to understand the impact  non-refundable fees theyve  paid up front will have 
when they cancel their policy if they are being  provided with clear,  fair and not misleading  
Ref: DRN98290654information. In Miss Ds case she had renewed  her policy  only a few weeks  prior to 
cancelling and so she had expectations that most  of her money would be refunded.  It was 
clear from the first conversation that she was not aware of how cancellations were  
calculated. So, I think she needed the information Ive suggested to fully appreciate  what  
refund shed get.
I accept that had Miss D spoken to a manager  the manager may have taken Miss D through 
the cancellation calculation. However,  I can only consider what actually happened and in this 
case Miss D didnt get a breakdown of the refund calculation  until after Hughes dealt with her 
complaint. 
Hughes have  also queried what Ive said about  highlighting  fees in my provisional  decision. 
And I accept  that the renewal letter contains  details of the fees and charges. Although these 
fees were included in the relevant terms, Miss D relied more  on the conversations  she had 
with staff than on the documents  she was sent. So, in her case I think the fees should have 
been highlighted when she called. 
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and I require Hughes Insurance 
Services Limited pay her £50 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she 
experienced.
Hughes Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell them Miss D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9829065