K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs P bought the policy in 2011  at around the same time as taking  out a loan.  She applied  
for the PPI policy over the phone. 
The loan was repayable over a 36-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was £112.13 
with the PPI costing  an additional £19.44  making the total monthly repayment £131.57. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs P for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ps monthly loan repayment for up to 
12 months in the event  of a successful disability  or unemployment claim. 
At the time,  Mrs P has indicated she was employed as a catering manager. She has told us 
she was entitled  to at least  three months full pay if she was off work sick and would have 
received a payment worth at least three  months pay if she was made  redundant. She said 
she had savings of £3,500. 
Santander sent us information indicating that the loan account started in 2011.  
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  
However, for ease  of reference, I will refer to its representations as being  Mrs Ps from now 
on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs P said:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs P believes  there  
to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs P and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim.
Ref: DRN98573672As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by our adjudicator, it was passed to me for a 
decision. Both parties have seen and had the opportunity to provide their responses  to my 
provisional decision. In it, I set out why I didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. I also 
explained why I considered Santanders  offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  fair in all the 
circumstances.
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision and that they had nothing more to 
add.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint
Santander accepts  the unfair relationship provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment also apply.  I will come  back  to this later on.
This sale took place  in 2011 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN98573673GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mrs Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mrs P, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mrs P suffered  loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Mrs P has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
Ref: DRN98573674taking into account  sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), 
Santander should have disclosed the commission  it received - and if it didnt, what  
would be fair compensation in all the circumstances .
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps alleged mis-sale complaint.  I have  also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission and Ive decided  that Santander 
should have disclosed  the commission it received. My findings  are set out below. 
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Unfortunately, there are gaps in the information thats still available from the time of the sale. 
For example, Santander hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale 
took place.
That said,  Santanders provided a call script  it says its agent would have followed in selling 
the PPI to Mrs P. Im satisfied I can rely on the script as being  a broad reflection of what  was 
discussed during  the call. And I can see the agent was prompted to ask the customer if they 
wanted to add PPI.  
In addition, I can see the loan agreement Mrs P signed included a separate  page for PPI. 
The information on that page  indicates  she confirmed she was eligible for the PPI and that 
she wanted the cover. She signed separately  for the PPI in the relevant place.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says advice wasnt provided during this sale.  Mrs P cant recall if it was. Looking 
at the call script Santanders provided,  Im not persuaded that it provided advice.
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs P. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs P to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mrs P 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate  costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs P would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN98573675So I dont  think Santander gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing her attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs P has raised  a number of general points 
with regard to the requirements on a business when  providing information in PPI sales.  It 
suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs P considers to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in insurance  law 
imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract to disclose material facts and not to make  
material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain  what a court would say  I think  its 
unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims ratio 
information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mrs P 
has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Santander ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Santanders shortcomings have on Mrs P? To what extent  did Mrs P 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs P. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
Mrs P says she would  not have  taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs P had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs P chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs P thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN98573676Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander  told her the exact premium at the point Mrs P 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems Mrs P was told the cost when she signed 
the loan agreement and she paid for some time, so if the costs were  significantly at odds 
with her expectations at the point of sale, its possible  she might have raised that with 
Santander at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mrs P would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the call in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mrs P would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be unable  to 
do her normal work or any other work which her training, education or ability 
reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs P was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  she had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs P would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any other work which in the insurers  view she might reasonably become qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs P was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation  
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN98573677Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences were  Mrs P made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs P would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs P says the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear  that, 
where a significant  failing is identified,  it should be presumed the consumer wouldnt have 
taken out PPI, unless  there is evidence to outweigh the presumption.  They  say we should 
follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mrs P wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs P says a court might  take if it were  to find 
Santander had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
Ref: DRN98573678the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs P in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Mrs Ps complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mrs P to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Mrs P has made a number of representations about the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mrs P 
said that:
-Santander failed  to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to pay 
claims), and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If Santander had told her about  those things, she would not have taken  out the 
policy, so she should get back all the money  she paid by way of premium for the 
policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  and the FCAs ICOB rules  did 
not specifically  require Santander  to tell Mrs P about commission or about the claims 
ratio (nor, for reasons Ive already explained, did the duty of utmost  good faith require 
Ref: DRN98573679that). As the FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance  to businesses for the 
handling of PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose 
commission was not in breach of ICOB/ICOBS (or the industry  codes which 
preceded them) and would  not  in and of itself  have been a breach of FCAs 
Principles for Businesses. Those Principles include a requirement on businesses  to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade  associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as Santander  did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would  have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether 
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship  
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the 
appropriate remedy - if any.
Ref: DRN985736710-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Santander has not sought to rebut  it in 
Mrs Ps case. In fact, Santander recently  agreed to make an offer or payment to 
Mrs P, calculated  in line with the FCAs guidance.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that Santander didnt tell Mrs P about  the high levels of commission  and profit share 
paid in this case, I think  its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  
Santander and Mrs P was unfair under section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs 
rules require Santander to determine  appropriate  redress in those circumstances, and I have 
had regard to those rules  below  in deciding what compensation  it would  be fair to award  
Mrs P in order  to remedy that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that Santanders failure  to disclose information about the claims ratio also 
meant there  was an unfair relationship. But in some respects, commission  and the claims 
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums 
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that Santander should have told Mrs P about  
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
Santander and Mrs P was unfair under section 140A  because it didnt tell her about 
the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think Santander  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mrs P insofar  as it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mrs P should get a full refund  
of the premiums she paid to put her in the position  she would have been in if she hadnt 
taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission  and profit share Santander  received,  
or a refund of the commission  paid above  a certain  point  for example by taking the 
Ref: DRN985736711approach set out in the FCAs rules  and guidance (as has recently  been offered  by 
Santander).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mrs P says that she should get a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums she has paid.  In summary, Mrs P says that the high level of commission (and/or 
the low claims  ratio)   together with the policys limitations and exclusions  meant  that the 
PPI policy  generally  represented poor value for money for her. I should therefore  find that 
Mrs P would not have  purchased the policy had she known of the level of commission  and 
accordingly, she should receive  a refund of all the PPI premiums she paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mrs P suggests  it does  i.e. 
that she necessarily would not have purchased the policy had the level of commission been 
disclosed to her at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Santander did not disclose the high 
level of commission to Mrs P, the court would necessarily order Santander to return all the 
premiums Mrs P paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court  would necessarily find 
that Mrs P would not have purchased the policy but for Santanders failure  to disclose the 
high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs P in order  to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact Santander did not disclose the 
high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mrs P, I have, as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
Ref: DRN985736712The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
Ref: DRN985736713undisclosed commission  may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mrs P is now making   i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
Ref: DRN985736714level of commission means that I should find that Mrs P would not have purchased  the policy 
had she known about the level of commission at the time she bought  the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Ref: DRN985736715Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mrs Ps (involving a regular premium policy) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mrs Ps 
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mrs P has urged  me to conclude that because Santanders failure to disclose the 
high level of commission (and/or profit  share) made her relationship with Santander 
unfair, I must  find that she wouldnt have purchased the policy  had she known about 
these matters at the time she purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mrs Ps suggestion.  As I said above, I recognise  it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mrs P at the time of the 
sale, she might have  decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, 
I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Mrs P by the failure to disclose the high level of commission   I am 
not, as Mrs P suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have purchased  
Ref: DRN985736716the policy but for Santanders failure  to disclose the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it is fair for Santander to calculate  
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Mrs P 
paid for her PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving  Mrs P with the policy Ive concluded  above she would have taken out 
if Santander had met its obligations  when acting  as an insurance  seller  but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mrs P in line with the FCAs guidance  at step 2, this 
effectively reduced  the overall  cost of the policy by an amount  equal  to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source  of the 
unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mrs P in this way is a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it leaves  her with the policy  I believe  she would have still taken  out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  her for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Santanders offer of payment of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Ps complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs P an amount  equivalent to the commission and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9857367