K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Ocean Automotive  Limited mishandled the setting  up of a Personal 
Contract Plan (PCP) for a car and misled him about the costs  of the road tax.
background
In early June  2018 Mr B saw a car advertised at a dealership that he thought would 
be suitable for both him and his wife. He made enquiries but decided that it would cost 
too much  to part exchange his existing car for this one.
Mr B says he was contacted within a few days by the dealership and after negotiations 
about the part exchange value and the cost of the new car he agreed to visit the showroom. 
Mr B says that he also told the dealership he would like to arrange a hire purchase 
agreement (HP) for £5,000 to fund the car and that he paid a £1,000 holding deposit.
Mr B and his wife visited the dealership shortly afterwards. After test driving the car Mr B 
agreed to go ahead  with the purchase. Mr B says that he was told that if he took a PCP 
rather than a HP agreement then then this would provide  an incentive of a £1000 being 
put towards the cost of the car. Mr B agreed to take out a three year PCP agreement and 
the finance agreement was drawn  up and signed. An order form for the car was also 
completed with Mr B to collect the car a few days later.
Mr B says that when  he got home  he studied  the paperwork  and was unhappy  about  the 
figures that had been recorded. His £1,000 holding deposit hadnt been included  and it 
didnt appear there had been the £1,000  reduction  to the cars  cost.
Mr B says he contacted  the dealership but was told that the figures  were  correct for the 
PCP and that there wouldve been  a difference in the cars cost if hed paid cash. Mr B says 
he was told that he couldnt cancel the agreement to buy the car so he told the dealership 
he would  proceed  with a cash sale for the car and cancel  the PCP.  Mr B then paid a 
deposit of £8,000 towards the car.
Mr B sent a complaint via email to the Head of Business for the dealership. The dealership 
says it contacted Mr B and suggested that he should cancel his agreement  to buy the car 
but that Mr B declined  this. It also offered Mr B £100 as a gesture of goodwill which Mr B 
declined.
The PCP agreement was cancelled within 5 days of Mr B signing it and was never 
activated. A new order form was created  for the car which the dealership  says Mr B was 
happy with, however there was an error as to the cars road tax cost.  When  the true road 
fund licence fee was disclosed to Mr B he decided  not to purchase the car. His total deposit 
of £9,000 was repaid  to him.
Mr B complained to Ocean Automotive about  the wrong figures on the PCP. It said that 
as the agreement had been  cancelled and all his money had been returned  there  was no 
further action  required.
Mr B was unhappy  at Ocean Automotives  response and complained  to this service about  
being misled regarding the £1,000 contribution to the cars cost, the error about  the road 
fund licence fee cost and the disappointment in not being able to purchase the car his 
wife had wanted.
Ref: DRN93435142Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Bs complaint  should be upheld. He said that there  
were some parts of Mr Bs complaint  that this service couldnt  comment on as they didnt 
fall under regulated activity but that in any event he thought Ocean Automotive had acted 
fairly. It had cancelled the agreement and although  there had been  an error about  the road 
fund licence it had offered  a solution  to that. Mr B had chosen not to proceed with his 
purchasing of the car and his deposit had been  refunded.
Mr B was unhappy  about our adjudicators view and the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
As had been explained  by our adjudicator this service cant  deal with complaints that dont 
relate to regulated activities. This meant I could only look at Ocean  Automotive  acting as a 
credit broker  when  it had set up the PCP agreement  for Mr B. I couldnt look at the issues 
that arose after that agreement had been  cancelled as this service cant get involved in 
arrangements for the outright purchase of the car.
Looking at the evidence  Id seen it was agreed  that there were negotiations between  Mr B 
and the dealership about the value for the car that was to be part exchanged  and the cost of 
the new car. It also wasnt disputed that there  was a £1,000 incentive  with the PCP 
agreement.
Mr B had entered into a three year PCP agreement  as hed been  told he could pay it off 
faster if hed wanted  to. He also voiced concerns that this agreement  provided a far greater 
mileage allowance  than the car would be actually driven for. However, his greatest concern 
was that the figures for the car were  £1,000  out as either there  was no contribution to the 
cars cost or his deposit wasnt included.
Ocean Automotive  didnt dispute  that Mr Bs £1,000 holding deposit  hadnt been included  
and said this was an error  by the dealership. However, it said the £1,000  contribution from 
the manufacturer had been  included and was shown as the dealers deposit on the order  
form. And looking  at the form I was satisfied that the incentive of the £1000  wasnt bogus 
as had been suggested by Mr B as it was on the order  form. I thought  it was his holding  
deposit that hadnt  been  included.
Ocean Automotive  said that the dealership  had tried many times to make  contact  with Mr B 
and discuss the figures  but hadnt been able to get hold of him. Looking  at what both parties 
said I thought there was a breakdown in communication between  them.  Mr B said he was 
told the figures were  correct when he queried  them and that he had to proceed with buying  
the car though he had been able to cancel  the PCP.
But Id also seen that Mr B was given the option  of not proceeding with the sale by the 
dealership but had decided to go ahead  as hed wanted the car. He decided  to buy the car 
outright and a new order  form was created.  Ocean  Automotive said Mr B was happy with 
the figures on this form until the actual annual cost of the road fund licence came  to light at 
which point hed decided  not proceed. The sale was cancelled at that point and all the 
monies paid by Mr B were reimbursed.
I appreciated Mr B felt he was misled  about  the cost of the car and about the road fund 
licence but I thought  it was more likely than not that human error caused the £1000 
holding deposit  to be missed off the paperwork. Mr B had quite correctly checked the 
figures on the order form and spotted  there  was an error. And although he was at first 
Ref: DRN93435143told thered been  no mistake and the agreement  to purchase the car had to proceed, 
the dealership  had, quite  quickly, offered to cancel the deal entirely and it had also 
offered a goodwill gesture of £100.
Id seen that on the original order form the road fund licence  was also recorded  as £140 
when in reality it had been significantly more.  I appreciated this was an error but where  
there was a misrepresentation in a contract thats  been relied upon then the remedy was 
to cancel  the contract.  This was what had happened here so I didnt think  anymore 
needed to be done.
I couldnt say that Mr B had suffered any financial loss over this PCP though  I accepted  hed 
been disappointed and might feel his time was wasted when hed then hadnt got the car he 
had wanted. But I didnt  think  in these circumstances that this was enough to merit 
compensation. I thought the dealership had acted  fairly in trying  to sort Mr Bs complaint out. 
It had cancelled the PCP on his instructions and also offered to cancel the sale of the car.
So looking  at the evidence and for the reasons given above Im wasnt  intending to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision. He said his complaint had been  misunderstood.  
And it had always been  about the dealerships failure to adjust the price of the car as had 
been agreed and to add in his holding deposit leading him to borrow  a £1,000 more on the 
finance agreement  than hed needed to. He says he raised the incorrect  figures with the 
dealership but was told they were correct  for the PCP agreement. Mr B says that had he 
known the correct cost of the road fund licence he wouldnt  have  continued with the 
purchase of the car and he thought the dealership had been aware of this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr B feels his complaint has been misunderstood I think I have  dealt with 
the issues he raised. It wasnt disputed by Ocean Automotive that the first order  form was 
wrong by £1,000 as Mr B had said. Ocean  Automotive said this was because Mr Bs holding 
deposit had mistakenly  been missed off but that the cars price  had been  reduced by £1,000 
as agreed. Ocean Automotive says the reduction  in the car price was shown on the order  
form as the £1,000 deposit contribution made  by the dealership. 
Looking at the order form I can see that the credit amount was £1,000 higher than it should 
have been meaning that either  the holding deposit or the reduction in the cars  price hadnt 
been properly  recorded. There wasnt an issue with both of these things and as set out 
above Im satisfied on the evidence that it was the holding deposit that hadnt been included  
as that isnt shown on the order form at all. Ive seen the cars price was reduced to the 
amount Mr B was expecting. So I cant reasonably say there was never a reduction in the 
car price. 
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration at being told the figures were correct  when  he queried them 
with the dealership. But Ocean Automotive  says there  were  several unsuccessful attempts to 
make contact with Mr B by the dealership to discuss the figures  so its possible that had both 
parties spoken then this issue  might have been resolved. Unfortunately  it appears there was 
Ref: DRN93435144a breakdown in communication between  Mr B and the dealership  but Ive seen the PCP was 
cancelled within a few days.
Mr B says that had he been told the true cost of the road tax cost for the car he would never  
have agreed to buy the car. Ive seen  this figure was wrongly  stated on the first order  form as 
well as the subsequent order form that was prepared after the PCP had been cancelled.  
Again it isnt disputed  by Ocean Automotive  that Mr B had been given wrong information and 
as Ive explained where something is misrepresented and relied on by the consumer then 
the remedy is to put the consumer back in the position they would have  been  had the 
misrepresentation not been made. Here the PCP was cancelled  within  a few days  as was 
the subsequent agreement to buy the car.
Looking at the chronology  of events I still dont  think  compensation for Mr B is merited  in 
these circumstances.  He didnt suffer any financial detriment as although he would have  
borrowed £1,000  to much  on the credit agreement had it gone  live with the figures  
unchanged, it was actually cancelled  within  a few days without ever being activated.  So 
while I accept Mr B was disappointed with how this potential  sale was handled it was 
resolved within  a short time.
So I havent changed my mind  and Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint for the reasons given 
above.
my final decision
For the reasons  shown  above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9343514