K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Ms C complain  that Homeserve Membership Limited mis-sold them  a plumbing 
and drainage cover insurance policy.
background
Mr P and Ms C took out a policy through Homeserve  in 2013 which  was renewed until 2017 
when they took out a like for like policy through Homeserve. They  made a claim for their sink 
pipe to be replaced which the insurer wouldnt cover  as there  was no leak and no 
emergency.
Mr P and Ms C complain  that Homeserve mis-sold them the policies as it told Ms C on the 
phone in 2013 that they were covered for wear and tear. They  say they have  emergency  
cover on their home contents policy and the only reason they took Homeserves policy was 
to be covered for all wear and tear. They want a refund of policy  premiums  and interest.
Homeserve said it hadnt mis-sold the policies. Due to the time lapse it didnt have the 2013 
phone call. But it said the policies  terms were  clear what was covered and Mr P and Ms C 
had made  numerous  successful  claims.
Our investigator thought there was no evidence the policies had been mis-sold.
Mr P and Ms C dont agree and want an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Ms C made a separate complaint to us about the insurer  not covering their claim  
which weve  considered.  This decision is just about  their mis-sale complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policies terms are clear that the cover  is for emergencies and details what  work is 
covered, in summary repairing  leaks and clearing blockages. 
The policies dont  exclude  emergency repairs due to wear and tear but do exclude normal  
day-to-day maintenance of the items, which is the basis  on which  the insurer didnt accept  
the claim.
The 2013  sale call isnt available  for me to listen to. But it may well be that Homeserve told 
Ms C that emergencies due to wear and tear problems would be covered. Such claims are 
likely to be covered if the incident meets the emergency  policy definition and other policy 
terms. However, not all wear and tear issues lead to an emergency and work thats covered 
by the policies.
The policies terms dont  say Mr P and Ms C are covered  for all instances of wear  and tear. 
I think its more likely than not that Homeserve didnt  tell Ms C in 2013 they would be 
covered for all wear  and tear issues as this isnt a maintenance policy.
Ref: DRN97183612Mr P says at least one of the repairs done under the policy  wasnt  for an emergency  matter. 
If thats the case the insurer acted very fairly in covering a claim which was outside the policy 
terms.
Mr P and Ms C say they took out the new policy in 2017  on the basis it was like for like cover 
and they understood there  was cover for wear and tear. The policy is basically the same as 
the previous policy,  so was like for like. Neither  policy says there's cover  for all instances of 
wear and tear and both have the exclusion for normal maintenance.
Overall there's no evidence Homeserve mis-sold either the 2013 or 2017 policy. It doesnt 
need to refund any premiums to Mr P and Ms C.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9718361