K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M took out a number of packaged bank  accounts (PBAs) with The Royal Bank  
of Scotland Plc (RBS) from 1998  for which they were charged monthly fees and they say 
those sold in August  1998 and February  2001 were mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out the following accounts  with RBS:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Cashline Sep 1994 No
Royalties Aug 1998 Yes
Royalties Gold Feb 2001 Yes
Royalties Feb 2001 Yes
Select Silver Feb 2012 Yes
Mr and Mrs M say that they were  told they had to take out the PBAs  in order to get loans 
and they have not used  them  or otherwise benefitted from them.  Both account changes  
happened through meetings with RBS staff, and the fee initially was £4 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that RBS mis-sold the accounts. Mr and Mrs M disagree  so the 
case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say in their complaint that at the time of the sales  they were  not aware  of fee 
free bank accounts, they were not eligible for them  and they were told by RBS in meetings 
when they went  for a loan in August 1998  and February 2001 that they had to have a PBA to 
get those loans.
While Im sure they are giving  their honest recollections, I think  its more likely than not that 
their memories are mistaken.
I say this because  RBS has provided evidence that they had a fee free bank account before 
they took out their first PBA, and that theyd taken out a substantial  loan with RBS a year 
before they bought the first PBA. So I think they knew they had a choice whether to pay a 
fee for an account  or not, knew they were  eligible  for fee free accounts and knew they could 
get a loan without a PBA each time they took out a PBA. And I think  they chose to buy the 
PBAs based  on what RBS told them  about  the benefits. 
RBS says that these  were  non-advised sales, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
PBAs to Mr and Mrs M personally or advise  them to take the PBAs  out. Mr and Mrs M say 
that RBS did advise them to take out the PBAs. 
Ref: DRN95289512I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Mrs Ms needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks  to show me 
clearly that RBS did make personal  recommendations  to them.  I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr and Mrs M and explaining  the benefits  of the PBAs,  RBS may 
have said or implied  that it was good  idea to take out the PBAs. But this isnt the same as 
giving personal  recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of RBSs  sales  
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that RBS sold the PBAs to Mr 
and Mrs M on an information only basis. 
This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the PBAs were suitable for Mr and Mrs M, but it 
did have to provide  Mr and Mrs M with good  enough information  about  the PBAs so they 
could make an informed  decision  about whether to have them or not.
And I think it did. I say this because Mr and Mrs M say that in the original meeting with RBS in 
1998 the representative spent some time telling them about the new type of account  
describing it a hard sell. Mr and Mrs M have said that they were  aware  they were being  
charged for the accounts, and Mrs M registered for the card protection  straight  away.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they havent  used many of the benefits. I can see nothing  in their 
personal circumstances throughout that would  have stopped them using the PBAs benefits. 
And it was for them to decide what they wanted to use and take the steps needed to register  
for or take up the products and services  available. And RBS has provided evidence that Mr 
and Mrs M benefitted extensively  from the lower interest rates on overdrafts and loans over 
the period theyve had the fee paying  accounts.  
So, in my view Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice about the PBAs and they chose to take 
them out. And I dont  think there is anything RBS didnt tell them that would have changed 
their minds  and put them off taking out the PBAs.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9528951