K821x#15complaint
Mrs A says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and six high-cost  short  term credit 
loans that Sunny provided to Mrs A between June 2014 and June  2015.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs As complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been provided  
with any further  credit  from the third drawdown  of the running  account facility in July 2014. 
Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs A, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs A was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided Mrs A with her third drawdown on her running account 
facility. 
I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that Mrs As use of 
her open-ended facility  suggested that there  was no reasonable  prospect of her clearing the 
Ref: DRN91433402balance within the period  of time set out in the agreement, or even a reasonable period of 
time. And it also ought to have been apparent  that Mrs A was relying  on the facility too. 
Sunny then transitioned Mrs A from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt 
be used for extended  periods to a series of instalment loans which  had the same effect.   
Mrs A then exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further  loans not too long after 
repaying previous  ones.  Sunny continued lending to Mrs A even when  this pattern was 
repeated and in circumstances where  it ought  reasonably to have realised  that any further  
loans were more likely than not unsustainable  for her. 
Mrs A had to pay interest and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs A paid on all credit  granted from July 2014  
onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about Mrs As instalment loans  should be removed from her 
credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs As complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mrs A compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9143340