K821x#15complaint
Mr Vs complaint against Contis  Financial Services Limited (Contis) is that it wont refund him 
for transactions on his account that he disputes.  
background
In March 2018 Mr V noticed some unusual transactions  on his Contis  account. When he 
looked at them more closely he saw he didnt make  or authorise these payments. He 
reported the matter  to Contis, who instead of helping him deal with the fraud, told him to 
contact the merchants to whom the payments had been made, and report it to the police. 
He did this, and was able to secure  a refund from one of the merchants. The others told him 
what the payments  had been for  which were goods he hadnt purchased or received. But 
they wouldnt refund him.
Mr V went  back to Contis and asked it to refund him the remaining disputed transactions, on 
the basis hed been a victim of fraud. But it failed to respond to him. 
So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  carefully  at the evidence, and asked Contis  for its response.  It didnt 
send any evidence, but did say on a phone  call that the card Mr V had for his account was 
like any normal  debit card, with a card number, expiry and CVV code. 
As there was no further evidence from Contis to show  that Mr V had authorised  the 
payments, given the other things he knew about  this case  such as the fact that some other 
accounts of Mr V had been compromised, and hed placed an anti-fraud marker  on his 
account to alert him to any future fraud  attempts, our Investigator  concluded that it was more 
likely than not that Mr V had been  a fraud victim, and hadnt authorised the payments. As 
such, he believed  that Contis needed  to refund him £1,789.99.
Contis hasnt responded to our Investigators view, so the complaints come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this complaint should  be upheld.  
Id like to explain why.
As our Investigator correctly outlined  in his view, in order  for Contis to hold Mr V responsible  
for the disputed payments made using his card details,  it needs to be satisfied (and to satisfy 
me) that he authorised  and consented  to them. But it hasnt done this. As the payments were  
made online using  Mr Vs card details,  its possible an unknown  third party was able to do 
this. 
Mr Vs reported the matter  to the police,  as he believes his computer may have  been  
hacked. This is supported by the fact that it wasnt only his Contis  account that was 
Ref: DRN96353482compromised. And also by knowing that to try to protect himself from further fraud,  he set up 
and paid for an anti-fraud marker to be registered on his name.
The Payment Services Regulations tell us that in order for a bank to hold a customer liable 
for a payment,  it has to be shown that the payment was authorised.  As Contis  hasnt sent us 
anything, Ive not been satisfied that this was the case. 
As such,  I believe on the evidence that it seems  more likely than not that Mr V has been a 
victim of fraud, and that he didnt make  or authorised the transactions from his Contis 
account that he disputes. And so I think Contis should refund him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve matters, Im asking 
Contis Financial Services Ltd to refund Mr V £1,789.99, with interest at 8% from the dates of 
payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9635348