K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the service that hes received from Barclays  Bank UK PLC in 
connection with a transfer to his childrens trust fund. Hes being helped  with his complaint 
by his mother.
background
Mr T has an account with Barclays. He and his mother  went  to a Barclays  branch in March 
2018 to transfer  £2,000 from that account to his childrens  trust fund. Mr Ts mother says that 
the correct reference wasnt put on the transfer  by the Barclays member  of staff and that, 
when she returned  to the branch, she was lied to by that member of staff about the reference 
number. Mr Ts mother then contacted  the trust fund provider and the payment was credited 
to Mr Ts account four days later. She complained to Barclays  and it sent her a final 
response letter later that month. It said that it was sorry for the inconvenience and frustration 
that this had understandably caused  and it said that, when the staff member  failed  to leave 
a reference on the transfer,  she shouldve been upfront and honest about it. And it enclosed 
a cheque for £50 compensation by way of an apology in recognition of the inconvenience 
that Mr T and his mother experienced. Mr T and his mother werent satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. They returned the cheque to Barclays and Mr Ts 
mother says that the complaint is fourfold and is about:
the experience  that they received in the branch and the blatant lies that they were 
told;
the way that Barclays dealt  with a child;
what wouldve happened if she hadnt  gone back to the branch; and
the unsatisfactory way that the complaint has been handled.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that 
Barclays had made  a fair offer of compensation for the distress  and inconvenience resulting 
from its error  and had said that the branch would discuss the impact  that the service 
experience had had on both Mr T and his mother. And itd offered for a senior representative  
to meet  with Mr T and his mother to discuss what happened. And he said that the cheque 
was returned by Mr Ts mother so the £50 should be paid to Mr Ts account.
Mr Ts mother  on his behalf - has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. Shes  responded to the investigators  recommendation  in detail and has raised 
15 issues in her response. The investigator has responded  to each of those issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses. So Im unable  to require any of them  to change the 
way that it conducts  its business. And our role isnt to punish a business  if its done 
something wrong.
Mr Ts mother is clearly  very upset about  what happened when they went  to the branch in 
March 2018 and feels that they were lied to by a member of Barclays staff and that this 
issue should be taken  further.
Ref: DRN90213212Barclays says that the member of staff made a human error when she failed to put a 
reference on the transfer  and that she should then have been upfront and honest about  it 
when she was confronted by Mr Ts mother about the missing reference number. I consider 
that its fair to imply from that that it accepts that the member of staff wasnt  upfront and 
honest when she was confronted by Mr Ts mother. And I can understand the frustration and 
upset that that might  cause to Mr T and his mother.  
But Mr Ts mother contacted the trust fund provider and the transfer was correctly credited to 
Mr Ts account  four days later. And I consider that the compensation that Barclays  has 
already offered includes adequate compensation for any financial loss that Mr T has 
experienced. 
Barclays has apologised to Mr T and his mother for the inconvenience  and frustration that 
theyd been caused  and it sent Mr Ts mother a cheque for £50 compensation but she 
returned the cheque to Barclays.  These events have clearly caused distress  and 
inconvenience to Mr T and his mother. But that distress and inconvenience arises as a result 
of Mr T being a customer of Barclays. And I consider £50 compensation to be fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that Mr T has been caused.  
These events dont relate to any account  that Mr Ts mothers has with Barclays   so 
although shes been caused distress  and inconvenience - Im unable to require Barclays to 
pay her any compensation. As the cheque has been  returned,  I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to credit the £50 compensation to Mr Ts account.
Barclays has also said that a senior branch representative was available  to talk with Mr T 
and his mother about what had happened  and that training  had been  provide to the member 
of staff. Mr Ts mother was provided  with the representatives contact details. Barclays  also 
says that CCTV footage  of Mr T and his mothers visits  to the branch is no longer available 
and that it doesnt agree  that with Mr Ts mother that it would be appropriate to take further 
action against  the member  of staff.
I consider that Barclays has responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Ts (and his mothers)  
complaint. And I consider  that the £50 payment  referred to above  is fair and reasonable 
compensation in these  circumstances. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  Barclays  to take any other action in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should  credit £50 
compensation to Mr Ts account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9021321