K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that a van he has on finance with FirstRand Bank  Limited, trading as 
Motonovo, was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
background
On 12 April 2018 Mr O took receipt  of a used van that he financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with Motonovo. The van was first registered in 2014 and had completed 65,501 
miles at the point of supply. 
But Mr O immediately noticed  some  issues with the van and he called the dealership  and 
arranged to take it back to them on 20 April 2018.  He said there was an oil leak;  it lacked 
power on the motorway and there was a problem  with the loading door which  wouldnt  close  
properly. 
The dealership arranged for an inspection  by a manufacturers main dealership but they 
couldnt find evidence  of the problems  Mr O complained  of and Motonovo have therefore 
refused to allow him to reject the van and terminate the finance agreement he has with them.  
They say theres  no evidence the van is of unsatisfactory  quality.
So Mr O referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the 
evidence. She agreed with Motonovo. She accepted that Mr O had returned the car within  
the first 30 days and that, if faults were  found,  legislation may allow Mr O to reject the vehicle 
and end his credit agreement. But she said she didnt have sufficient information to suggest  
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and the independent inspection by the manufacturers 
main dealer  suggested  there was nothing  wrong  with the van. She said that Mr O may wish 
to commission his own independent inspection and, if he did, she would be happy to 
reconsider her position but it was her view that Motonovo didnt need  to take any further 
action.
But Mr O disagreed. He provided a detailed response in which  he suggested the relevant 
legislation supported his request to terminate  the agreement. He said the test for satisfactory 
quality would suggest he was within his rights  to reject the van with the problems he reported 
and he said Motonovo were wrong  to advertise the van as in excellent condition as it 
clearly wasnt  and theyd  therefore misrepresented the deal. He insisted  he had made a valid 
application to reject the vehicle within 30 days and that he didnt need to organise  an 
independent inspection in order for this to be the case. And he also said that Motonovo  
should allow  him to transfer the deposit he paid on this agreement  to the new agreement  he 
now had with them for another van. Mr O therefore  asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will really  disappoint Mr O but I dont  think theres enough evidence here to support 
a short  term rejection of the vehicle. Please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN91787602Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. In particular I can assure  Mr O that Ive read the whole of his detailed  submission 
on 12 December 2018 which  considered  the relevant legislation.  If I dont  comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it but because I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired  his van under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the van 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Motonovo is 
responsible and, as Mr O reported  his dissatisfaction  with 30 days, he wouldnt have to give 
Motonovo the chance to repair the fault: he could  simply reject  the van and terminate his 
finance agreement.
But Mr O needs to demonstrate that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality. He returned the 
van and supplied pictures which he said demonstrated there was an oil leak.  He also 
complained that the van lost power  on the motorway and that the door was faulty. But when 
the dealer arranged an independent inspection none of these issues  were present and the 
report provided did not, to my mind, highlight any issues that would render  a used van with 
over 65,000 miles on the clock, unsatisfactory.
I can see that the adjudicator suggested Mr O may wish to consider arranging  another 
inspection if he wanted to evidence his findings  but hes not done so. Mr O says that isnt 
necessary in order for him to reject the van under the relevant legislation.  But here, the 
dealer has provided  tangible  evidence from an expert that the faults complained of are not 
present and there is very limited evidence to the contrary. 
And as the inspection  hasnt highlighted any problems it would be unreasonable for me to 
suggest the Motonovo were wrong  to advertise the van as in excellent condition and had 
therefore misrepresented it. I dont  think theres evidence that was the case and Im afraid 
that overall, I dont  think theres sufficient evidence to support Mr Os assertion that he 
should be allowed  to reject the vehicle.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9178760