K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the issues that hes had with a replacement kitchen that he paid for 
using a fixed sum loan agreement  with Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Personal  
Finance. 
background
Mr H used a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Personal Finance that he electronically  
signed in January 2018 to pay for a replacement kitchen to be supplied and fitted. There  
were issues  with that which have been  described in detail by Mr H, the supplier and Hitachi  
Personal Finance.  
Mr H complained to the supplier and Hitachi Personal Finance about those issues.  He said 
that he should receive £500 compensation for his time, a refund of £284 for unused  parts  
and a refund  of £879 to reflect the premium he paid for services that were never delivered. 
The supplier  paid him £329.91  for the outstanding  works and £100  as a gesture  of goodwill 
and Hitachi Personal  Finance paid him a further £100 as a gesture of goodwill. But he wasnt 
satisfied with Hitachi Personal Finances response  so complained  to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. The supplier 
had offered to refund  £284  to Mr H for unused  parts  but the investigator thought that Hitachi 
Personal Finance  should  refund the £284  to Mr H and then make  arrangements for the parts 
to be collected.  The investigator also said that Hitachi Personal Finance  should pay a further  
£300 to Mr H for the trouble  and upset caused  to him by all of the issues with the kitchen. 
But he didnt  think that it would be fair of him to ask Hitachi Personal Finance to refund to 
Mr H the £879  that hed claimed.
Hitachi Personal Finance has accepted the investigators recommendations and has said 
that it will arrange for the £584 to be sent to Mr H or he can have it credited to his agreement  
if he prefers and that he can sell or use the unused parts. But Mr H has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in detail and concludes 
that he paid a lot of money to the supplier to purchase  its offer of a highly skilled,  risk free 
end-to-end kitchen  installation but it did not deliver any of that so he cant  see any 
justification why it should keep the £879 that hes claimed when it did not fulfil its side of the 
contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there have  been significant issues with the supply and installation of Mr Hs 
kitchen and I can understand the strength of feeling  that he has about  that. The supplier has 
paid him £429.91  (including £100  as a gesture of goodwill), Hitachi Personal Finance has 
also paid him £100  as a gesture of goodwill and has agreed to pay him £584 (£284 as a 
refund for some unused parts  and it now says that he can keep those parts  and £300 
compensation for the trouble an upset that hes been caused). On that basis  Mr H will have 
received refunds and compensation totalling  £1,113.91.
Mr H says that he purchased a premium fitting  service from the supplier and that hes 
calculated that the cost of the premium  service was £879 as he was charged £3,629 for the 
Ref: DRN94445182fitting which was scheduled to take eleven days but the supplier pays  its fitters £250  per day. 
He says that the £879 should be refunded to him.
I have considered Mr Hs summary  of his complaint and his response  to the investigators 
recommendations in detail.  I sympathise  with him for the issues that hes had with the 
kitchen. The installation price of the kitchen  was £3,629 and the kitchen has been installed   
though its clear that there have been  issues with it. I consider  that refunds and 
compensation totalling £1,113.91 is a fair and reasonable response to those issues  and it 
includes goodwill and compensation for Mr Hs trouble and upset of £500. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Hitachi Personal Finance to also refund to Mr H the £879  of the installation price  for 
the kitchen that hes claimed  or to pay him any compensation  above what the investigator 
has recommended. I find that it would  be fair and reasonable for Hitachi  Personal Finance to 
pay him the £584 compensation  that was recommended by the investigator  (if it hasnt  
already done so). I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
take any other action  in response to Mr Hs complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and I order  Hitachi 
Capital (UK) plc, trading  as Hitachi Personal  Finance,  to pay £584  to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9444518