K820x#14complaint
Mr T applied  for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage  with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc and was unhappy 
with the conduct of the surveyor appointed to value the property, and the potential rental 
income figure provided. Hes also unhappy that Bank of Ireland wouldnt then lend as much 
as it had agreed in principle, and about the £610 valuation fee hed paid.
background
Mr T applied  through a mortgage broker for a BTL mortgage with Bank of Ireland. The 
application noted the property was his current home, and he was remortgaging it onto a BTL 
basis and raising  extra money as a deposit  for a new residential  property. When  applying  for the 
mortgage Mr T put the estimated  property value as £615,000 and the estimated monthly rental 
figure as £2,500. Unfortunately  the surveyor didnt agree with those figures,  saying the property 
was worth £585,000  and the monthly rental  income  likely to be received would be £1,850.
Mr T says he told the surveyor hed previously rented the property out for £2,100 but the 
surveyor replied he doubted  that.
Mr T put forward  an appeal based on some  comparable rental properties, but the surveyor  
stood by the rental figure hed given.  Bank  of Ireland  therefore  said it would only be willing to 
lend around £305,000 rather than the approximate £412,000 Mr T had asked for.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about  the surveyor, only about  
Bank of Irelands  acts or omissions; and having  considered the complaint he thought  Bank of 
Ireland hadnt  done anything wrong.  Mr T didnt agree so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read and considered 
the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Bank of Ireland  doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs  the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case  by appointing  a member  of the Royal  Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS). Bank of Irelands not accountable for the conduct  of the individual  
surveyor or any act (or omission) by the surveyor or the firm he works for. 
This means  I cant  make any comment on the following complaint points as they relate to the 
actions of the surveyor:
The surveyor in question acted in an unprofessional manner and effectively called me a 
liar to my face.
The issue of the rental  value of my property being significantly undervalued has not 
been addressed. It should be noted  I provided  comprehensive evidence from an 
independent estate agent confirming the rental value so fail to understand why the 
surveyor in question  marked  down  the property so significantly.
Ref: DRN94333572Bank of Ireland  is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt  do); we cant  consider 
complaints against  it for things a separate  business  did (or didnt do). The surveying firms 
complaints process  comes under RICS.  All I can consider against Bank of Ireland  is if it 
discharged its duty in instructing a suitable  firm of surveyors, and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did.
Bank of Ireland  put forward  Mr Ts appeals  to the surveyor and he stood by the valuation  
figures hed given. Thats all Bank  of Ireland  can do as the surveyor is a suitably qualified  
professional and Bank of Ireland is entitled to rely on his advice and opinion.
Mr T says Bank of Ireland misled him about  the amount he was able to borrow,  and says he 
wouldnt have made an application and paid the valuation fee had he thought it wouldnt 
have provided  the funds  it had indicated were available in the agreement in principle. Ive 
looked at the agreement  in principle given by Bank of Ireland and Im satisfied thats clear it 
is subject to valuation,  and an assessment of the potential  rental  yield of the property.
Bank of Ireland  said it was willing to lend in principle the amount Mr T wanted,  but that was 
based on the declarations  that the property was worth £615,000 and would be rented out for 
£2,500 a month. Its only right that Bank  of Ireland would look again at the amount it is willing 
to lend when the surveyor gave much  lower figures  of £585,000 and £1,850 a month.
Bank of Ireland  made  it clear the valuation fee was £610 and thats  what Mr T paid. Ive 
looked at Bank of Irelands tariff and that was the right amount according to the sliding scale 
based on the value of the property. The fee was spent when  the valuation  was carried out 
as Bank  of Ireland had to pay the surveyor. Im therefore satisfied  the fee was correctly  
charged, and isnt refundable  to Mr T.
While I can appreciate that the process  may have been frustrating for Mr T, I cant 
reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Bank of Ireland.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9433357