K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  about how Admiral Insurance  Company Limited handled her home 
insurance claim for damage  caused by an escape of water  and about the increase in the 
cost of her policy following the claim.
background
Miss Js house was damaged by an escape of water from a pipe in her utility room  in early 
June 2018. Upon discovering  the damage Miss J contacted Admiral who sent an emergency 
plumber to stop the leak. Miss J then made a claim. Admiral  appointed a loss adjuster  who 
arranged to visit the property and assess the damage. That visit took place just over a week  
after Miss J first notified Admiral of the claim. 
The claim progressed but there were  delays, poor communication and poor service.  Miss J 
was particularly unhappy that not all the damage  was spotted at the outset and that she 
wasnt told to remove her saturated  lounge carpet  until after the visit from the loss adjuster. 
This meant she had to walk across  a water logged  carpet when trying to get to her kitchen. 
Miss J was unhappy about the conditions she was living in and she felt she shouldve  been 
offered the services  of the drying company from the outset. And Miss J was unhappy that the 
delay in installing  dehumidifiers meant the damage  worsened ultimately  costing more  to 
rectify which in turn impacted  the cost of her insurance premiums. 
Miss J complained to Admiral about  all of these issues and she moved  out of the house  and 
went to stay with her sister. The drying  company attended at the beginning of July 2018 and 
issued its handover certificate confirming the affected areas were back  to their pre-incident  
moisture levels on 15 August 2018.  The loss adjuster  arranged  for the reinstatement  works  
to be undertaken  and these were completed, with Miss J moving  back home, towards the 
end of September 2018. 
Admiral responded  to Miss Js complaint a few days later.  It said it agreed with all the 
concerns shed raised and apologised for any inconvenience  shed  been  caused. In 
acknowledgement of its errors it paid Miss J £1,450  which was comprised of £1,150  and 
£300. The £300 was in respect of the poor handling of her claim and the £1,150 was a 
disturbance allowance for the duration of her claim (at £10 per day). Admiral said it had 
reviewed her claim and agreed  that it hadnt  been  managed to the best possible practice 
which was unacceptable. It said it accepted that its contractors had to attend  to rectify some  
snagging issues but agreed  that the repairs  shouldve been carried  out to an acceptable 
standard in the first instance. Overall Admiral thought its loss adjuster couldve been  more 
pro-active and the process much smoother. 
Miss J responded to say she didnt think £300  was enough to address the issues  shed  
raised. And she was unhappy Admiral hadnt  commented on why she hadnt  been offered 
the services of the drying company at the outset; on why shed been told to leave the 
saturated carpets down; on why she hadnt  been allocated a single point of contact and why 
the original claim value, and works required, was originally insufficiently assessed.  And she 
said she thought  the under estimate of the damage  could impact  her future premiums so she 
wanted to know  how she would be compensated for this. She also mentioned a health  
condition she suffered from which she thought the condition of the house had contributed to 
worsening leading  to her having to have surgery. And finally she complained about being 
disturbed by Admiral when she was away on holiday and meant  to be relaxing.  
Ref: DRN97379762Admiral responded  to Miss J at the start of November 2018 and said all insurance claims 
caused a certain  amount of disruption and it could only compensate for things that werent  
done appropriately. It said it felt itd made an appropriate award of compensation in Miss Js 
case. Admiral said policy  premiums were calculated  using a number of different rating 
factors, a change to any of which could increase or decrease the premium  paid.  It said it was 
unable to send  her evidence of any increased  risk as shed requested  because  such 
information was commercially sensitive. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Admirals investigation, Miss J complained to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into her complaint but didnt think Admiral had treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably so she didnt recommend that her complaint was upheld.
Miss J disagreed with our investigators  findings  and asked  for her complaint to be referred 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment it will 
cause Miss J, I dont think her complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
All insurance  claims,  by their very nature, attract a certain degree of stress and 
inconvenience for the policyholder  some more than others. Thats to be expected. And 
escape of water claims are typically  more  stressful than other  types of claim.  But where an 
insurer makes  an already stressful situation  worse   through its deeds  or inaction  this 
service can make an award of compensation.  Such  awards are for the additional, avoidable, 
disruption caused to the policyholder by the insurer above and beyond the general 
inconvenience of having to make  the claim in the first place. 
Its my role to decide whether Admiral  has treated  Miss J fairly and reasonably  in addressing  
her complaints. It isnt my role to claims  handle, only to look at what has gone  wrong  and 
decide if the steps Admiral has taken to address the complaint were fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and were in line with this services approach to such complaints  
generally.
I can see that Admiral accepted all the complaints that Miss J made to it. It has apologised 
and paid her compensation and a disturbance allowance. Its acknowledged  the 
management of the claim  didnt  follow  best practice  and that the claim couldve run 
smoother. 
I can also see that Miss J doesnt  think Admiral  addressed all the complaints she made 
because it didnt comment specifically  on certain aspects. Whilst Admiral may not have 
commented forensically  on all the complaints I can see it that it has agreed with all the 
concerns Miss J raised.  I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. It has admitted it was at 
fault and apologised. 
I can see that Admiral has paid Miss J a disturbance  allowance  of £10 a day for the duration 
of her claim. That amount is what I wouldve recommended myself if Admiral hadnt already  
made the payment. I can see that Miss J says that this doesnt go very far towards  
reimbursing her sister or for the bills she still had to pay for her home. But its not meant to. A 
disturbance allowance is paid at the rate of £10 per day per adult when essential facilities  
such as cooking  facilities  are unavailable. It is a contribution towards any additional costs  
Ref: DRN97379763(above and beyond typical weekly food expenditure) that might be incurred as consequence 
of not having such  facilities. 
I cant make  Admiral pay for Miss Js normal weekly food expenditure or the other  bills 
associated with her home as these arent  expenses  that have arisen as the result of the 
claim. I can see that alternative accommodation was discussed  at one point but not 
furthered. And I can see a comment from the loss adjuster that the kitchen facilities were 
available for use until the strip out and that upstairs  was habitable. From the information  Ive 
seen I dont think it was unreasonable not to have moved Miss J into alternative 
accommodation. For the additional  costs  she may have incurred as a result of a period of 
time without  cooking  facilities, I think the payment of £1,150  is fair and reasonable. 
Ive thought too about the amount of compensation paid to Miss J by Admiral. I can see the 
claim took a total of about three and a half months  to resolve which  isnt an unusually  long 
time for an escape  of water claim. Miss J has said she was given wrong  information  about 
leaving the carpet down and that she shouldve been offered the services of the drying 
company from the date she made  the claim.  But insurers must be allowed to check  the claim 
is a valid one before incurring  any expenditure. It isnt unusual for the loss adjuster to visit 
first, validate  the claim and then authorise the strip out and drying. And insurers typically  
want to inspect damaged  items (such as carpet)  that form part of the claim. So I cant say 
Admirals actions were unreasonable.
And costs  can evolve as claims progress.  Its not unusual for the original claim reserve  to 
increase as the claim moves along and the true extent of the damage becomes apparent. 
Miss J says that the delays at the beginning meant  the damage increased along  with the 
cost and that this has led to her having  to pay higher  premiums.  But Im unable to tell from 
the information Ive seen  that this likely to have happened with her claim. 
I accept that the wait between reporting  the loss and the loss adjuster  coming  out to inspect 
the damage wouldve been  difficult for Miss J. But Admiral has admitted it couldve done  
more, that delays occurred and mistakes  were made. The remedy  for such errors is a 
payment of compensation. And having  taken everything that Miss J has said into account, I 
think that compensation of £300 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It is also in 
line with this services approach to compensation awards generally.  Indeed, if this complaint  
had passed across my desk without  Admiral having  already  offered Miss J any 
compensation, its unlikely Id have awarded  any more. 
I have thought too about what Miss J has said about her illness but Ive seen no independent 
medical evidence  that her unfortunate admittance to hospital was the result  of any failing  on 
the part of Admiral. And Ive thought about the disturbance when Miss J was on holiday, and 
the state of the house at handover, and have taken both into account when considering 
whether the compensation Admiral  paid was fair and reasonable.r 
Finally, Miss J has complained about  the effect the claim has had on her premiums. As 
Admiral told her, numerous  rating  factors are taken  into account when premiums are 
calculated. And its true that making a claim can impact certain rating factors  and lead to an 
increase in premium.  Its important to understand that this service doesnt normally assess 
whether a price  is too high to cover  a particular risk. Thats for the insurer  to decide based 
on its appetite  for risk and its business  requirements  more generally. So we wont  normally 
say whether a product represents good  value for money. We generally accept that insurers 
can charge what they like for insurance  so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that 
means that they should apply their chosen  pricing  model consistently provided the consumer 
Ref: DRN97379764has flexibility to shop around  and change insurer if they wish. And Im satisfied, from the 
confidential information that Admiral  has provided to us, thats  the case  here.  
Miss J has said that Admiral hadnt addressed  the aspect of her complaint about the pricing 
of her policy but I can see that it did in its letter to her of 5 November  2018.  And I can see 
shes asked it to send  her information  about  how her premium  is calculated and remains 
unhappy that her request has gone  unanswered. Admiral said in the same letter it was 
unable to send  such information to her because it was commercially sensitive. That remains 
the case. Admiral  has been able to send  that information to us however   which  I have 
referred to above   and I would like to reassure Miss J that I have checked  it very carefully.  
Im unable to share that with her either  due to the confidential nature of the information  
provided. But having checked  it, I cant say that Admiral has treated her unfairly in the way 
its calculated her premium since the claim was made. 
So I think that Admiral  has addressed Miss Js complaint fairly in all the circumstances  and I 
cant reasonably  ask it to do any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9737976