K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms L complain that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) cancelled their landlords 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Ms L owned a house which was let out to tenants through letting agents. The house  
had a garage which was let to a different person under a separate  agreement.  
Mr and Ms L had insurance for the property with UKI from 2008 onwards  and from 2015  the 
policy included the benefit of legal  expenses insurance, provided as an add on to the policy 
by a different  insurer.
In September  217 it became clear  that there was a problem with the tenants  who rented the 
house and this led to Mr and Ms L making a claim on the legal expenses  policy. Then in 
December Mr and Ms L discovered that the garage,  which theyd let to separate tenants,  was 
in very poor condition.  They  raised this as a separate claim on their legal expenses  cover.
Mr and Ms L received  a phone call from UKI in April 2018. UKI said after speaking to the 
legal expenses insurer, it had become  aware  the house  and the garage were  being let 
separately. UKI said it wouldnt offer cover in these circumstances  and the policy  would have 
to be cancelled. UKI offered a ten-day period for them to arrange alternative  cover and 
provided a number for an insurer  that they thought  would insure  them.
Mr and Ms L were unhappy with this as they said both insurers  were aware of the 
arrangement. They  were also unhappy that, after being told the policy  was being  cancelled, 
they received  letters  from UKI offering to renew  the policy and giving contradictory information 
about it. They said there were numerous  examples of errors and poor administration.
UKI accepted there had been  some errors and offered compensation of £100  for this. Our 
investigator thought  this was reasonable. But Mr and Ms L disagree and so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Ms L say UKI decided  to cancel the policy following a phone  call with the 
legal expenses insurer. But its generally  for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover.  
The policy is for landlords insurance,  to provide cover  for a house being  let to tenants.  If UKI 
doesnt want to provide  cover in circumstances where part of the property (in this case,  the 
garage) is let under a separate agreement, thats a judgment for UKI to make. And the legal 
expenses insurer would  have no say over that.
UKI has explained that the policy only covers residential properties, and only for tenants  who 
live in the property.  This is made clear in the policy documents.  So when it found out part of 
the property was let separately, to a different tenant who didnt live there, it wasnt prepared 
to cover that risk. In these circumstances I think it was reasonable for UKI to cancel the 
policy, as this wasnt a risk it was prepared to cover.
Ref: DRN99712622This wasnt addressed  when the policy was taken  out  it only came  to light some years later, 
following the claim on the legal expenses cover. I can understand why Mr and Ms L are upset 
they were only told at that point that UKI wouldnt continue to insurer the property. No doubt  
this came as a great surprise.  And they had to find another  insurer in a short  space of time.  
Mr and Ms L believe UKI was aware of the situation  with the separate  renting arrangement 
of the garage  and the house. And they feel it was influence from the legal expenses insurer 
that caused UKI to cancel their policy. They had used  the legal advice helpline  (provided as 
part of the legal expenses cover) previously. But they didnt make a claim on the policy  at 
that; they simply accessed  the legal advice  service. So, UKI didnt review  the arrangement 
then. It was only when  they actually made a claim that the circumstances were reviewed and 
UKI realised the house and garage were let separately.
After the decision  to cancel the policy Mr and Ms L received  a number of letters
which appeared to offer further insurance  and advised of additional changes in their policy
and premiums. It turned out that UKI hadnt in fact cancelled the policy - the cancellation 
wasnt put into effect until August 2018  and then backdated to the April. This meant  letters 
were still being sent to Mr and Ms L during this period. This would have been confusing  for 
them and very frustrating.
In its final response to the complaint,  UKI said it was sending  a cheque  for £100 in 
compensation, though Mr and Ms L say they never received this. UKI also said if Mr and 
Ms L withdrew their claims it would offer a refund of premium for the time since,  but if they 
wished to continue  the claim the policy would need to be paid in full. This is common 
practice if a claim is made; the insurer will generally ask for the full premium to be paid. In 
the circumstances I think  that was reasonable.
UKI offered compensation of £100. Ive considered  this and agree with our investigator that 
was a reasonable sum. It was no doubt upsetting to be told the policy  would be cancelled. 
But as Ive explained, if UKI wouldnt  cover  the risk where the properties are let separately,  
thats a matter for them. And although  Mr and Ms L later received letters  with confusing 
information, I think the sum offered  is a fair amount to acknowledge the upset caused  to 
them. If Mr L and Ms L havent received the payment UKI should offer this again, but I dont 
require it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9971262