K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that MBNA Limited  (MBNA)  wont  refund her the price  she paid for a 
tumble dryer (dryer)  using her MBNA credit card.
background
In August  2013  Ms G purchased a dryer from a high street retailer (which  I will call A) 
paying £199.99 using her MBNA credit card.
Later the dryer was identified by the manufacturer as being one that might  be susceptible  to 
catching fire.
In March 2016, and becoming aware of the above, Ms G says she stopped  using the dryer.
In May 2016  Ms G says a modification to the dryer was undertaken by the manufacturer  but 
she didnt use the dryer after this because she had lost confidence in it and was concerned  it 
might still catch fire.
In March 2017 Ms G submitted a claim to MBNA  for £199.99 because,  in her view, the dryer  
was faulty when supplied to her in August 2013.
MBNA said that on receipt of the above claim it requested various  documentation  from 
Ms G. And when this documentation wasnt received it concluded  the matter  had been  
resolved. It then says it heard nothing further  from Ms G until October 2018, when she 
complained about her claim not being resolved.
In November 2018 MBNA issued Ms G with a final response letter  (FRL). In this FRL 
MBNA said it was prepared to consider a claim from Ms G on receipt  of certain  
documentation, some  of which it had previously requested be provided  but hadnt  been.
In December 2018, and unhappy with MBNAs FRL, Ms G referred  a complaint to our 
service.
In June 2019 Ms Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who came  to the 
view that it should  be upheld. He said he was satisfied that that there was a manufacturing  
fault with the dryer  when  supplied and that MBNA  should pay Ms G £174.99 (the £199.99 
purchase price less £25.00 for usage).
Ms G responded to say that she accepted  the adjudicators view and MBNA responded to 
say it didnt.
In its response to the adjudicators view MBNA said it doesnt dispute  that Ms G was 
provided with a faulty dryer. But it added that because the manufacturer had carried  out a 
modification to it, which Ms G has been  unable to substantiate was unsuccessful,  it shouldnt  
now have to pay her anything by way of compensation. It also made  reference  to a decision 
issued by one of my fellow ombudsmen which it says supports its view.
In her response Ms G accepted that a modification  to the dryer was undertaken  by the 
manufacturer. But she reiterated that she felt she was unable  to use it post modification  
given the publicity surrounding  modified dryers of the type purchased  by her still running the 
risk of catching fire.
Ref: DRN99351142The adjudicator considered both parties  responses  to his view but wasnt  persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore the complaint was passed to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in June  2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
First I would like to point out that Im fully aware  of the final decision that MBNA has made 
reference to in its submissions to our service. But notwithstanding that I think that case and 
this case are different  in a number of respects, I would remind MBNA  that Im not bound by 
what one of my fellow ombudsmen might, or might not, have concluded in the past. Also I 
think its worth pointing  out that this decision was issued some  time ago and prior to matters  
surrounding the type of dryer purchased by Ms G having evolved and moved on.
When considering  if MBNA  acted  fairly  in declining  Ms Gs claim, I take into account  the 
relevant law. 
In Ms Gs case, section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section  75) makes MBNA 
jointly and severally  liable  for a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by A under  certain  
conditions. 
One of these conditions is that A must have attached a cash price to the goods  of more than 
£100 and less than £30,000. Another  is that there  must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier  
(DCS) relationship between the parties.
Ive considered what both parties have said and submitted.  And having done  so Im satisfied 
that both conditions above  have  been  met in this case.
Secondly the Sale of Goods Act 1979  implies  a term into Ms Gs dryer  supply contract  that 
the dryer will be of satisfactory quality. This act says that goods will be considered  of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, taking into account the description  of the goods, the price paid and other  
relevant circumstances.
The dryer  Ms G purchased was brand  new so a reasonable person wouldnt expect there to 
be any damage, faults or defects with it, including minor ones. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute, but for the avoidance of doubt I can confirm that Im 
satisfied that Ms G was provided with a faulty  dryer in August 2013.  Ive come to this 
conclusion because the type of dryer purchased by Ms G was identified  by the manufacturer  
as being susceptible to catching  fire and subject  to a recall.  Ive also had regard to the fact 
that Ms Gs dryer was modified by the manufacturer at no cost to her.
So what  I now need to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable for MBNA to decline 
Ms Gs further request for compensation on the basis that shed already accepted a 
modification from the manufacturer.
MBNA submits that under the Sale of Goods Act 1979 Ms G has no right to compensation 
because she accepted a modification (from the manufacturer) and there is no evidence to 
corroborate this modification wasnt successful.
Ref: DRN99351143Now I accept what MBNA says here,  but equally I note that matters  have  moved on since 
the date Ms Gs dryer  was modified  by the manufacturer in 2016.
I can see that a report by the Office for Product Safety Standards concluded  in 2019 that 
there was only a low risk to a modified  dryer of the type purchased by Ms G catching fire. 
But this isnt the same as saying the risk had been  entirely removed. Im also aware that 
there have  been  news  reports where  people have reported their dryers  catching fire after 
being modified  by the manufacturer.
Im also mindful that although in 2016 the manufacturer said that all that was required to 
make the dryer of the type purchased by Ms G safe was a modification, I note that it now 
offers consumers, with an unmodified dryer of the type purchased by Ms G:
a free of charge  replacement
an upgrade to a higher specification model from £59
a free in-home modification together with a voucher to the value of £50
a refund, which will be dependent on the age of the dryer
So with all the above in mind I think its reasonable to conclude that there  was only a small 
chance that the modification to Ms Gs dryer might not have  been  successful. But equally Im 
satisfied that this wasnt enough  for Ms Gs confidence in the dryer  to be restored, a 
reasonable thing for her to have wanted. I think that it should also be remembered that here 
the risk Ms G was faced with, or was possibly faced with, wasnt just that her dryer might 
cease to function but that it could catch  fire  a very big risk for anybody  to accept.
I acknowledge that MBNA  has said it shouldnt have  to take further action. But as Im not 
persuaded the manufacturer has resolved  things  fully, in the particular circumstances, I think  
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint  is for MBNA  to allow Ms G to reject the dryer 
and rework her credit  card as if she paid £50 in August 2013 (rather  than £199.99)  for it. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I think a rejection along  with a deduction for use is a fair remedy  that 
I can fairly award.
Ive only awarded  Ms G what is, in essence, a refund  of £149.99 to her credit  card,  rather 
than £199.99,  because by her own admission  she had two and half years  use of the dryer  
before becoming  aware it might be unsafe. And in my view, taking into account everything 
that has been said and submitted, a £50 deduction for that usage is fair and reasonable.
Ms G has confirmed  to our service  that she still has the dryer. So as well as making  the 
above adjustment to her credit  card MBNA should  either arrange collection  of the dryer from 
Ms G  at no cost to her  or agree that she can dispose of it herself and meet  any 
reasonable costs  she incurs in doing so on the supply of evidence of the same, for example 
on the supply  of an invoice.
Ref: DRN99351144Ive also considered how MBNA dealt with the claim and while I appreciate  there were some  
delays, I dont think these  were significant or caused by MBNA. So taking everything into 
account I dont  think it would be appropriate for me to direct MBNA to pay Ms G anything for 
the way the claim  was handled.
Ms G responded to say that she accepted  my provisional decision.
MBNA responded  to say it accepted my provisional  decision  and that it was prepared to pay 
Ms G up to £27.96 for the disposal  of the dryer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what both parties  have said and submitted in response to my provisional decision, all I 
need to decide here is whether its fair and reasonable for MBNA to be able to cap what it 
pays Ms G, for disposing of the dryer, at £27.96.
Now I accept MBNAs desire to want to cap what it pays  Ms G for disposing of the dryer  and 
I agree  that it should be able to. But following enquiries made  by the investigator  of Ms Gs 
local council  I think the cost should  be capped  at £30 and not £27.96.
my final decision
My final decision is that:
MBNA Limited must  rework Ms Gs credit card as if she had paid £50 in August 2013 
(rather than £199.99)  for the dryer. Where this recalculation  results  in the refund of a 
credit balance,  MBNA Limited  must  also pay Ms G interest  on that amount at a rate 
of 8% simple per year,  from the date that credit balance arose to the date of 
settlement
If MBNA Limited considers it necessary to deduct  tax from the interest  part of this 
award then it must provide Ms G with a certificate of tax deduction so she might  claim 
the amount back from HMRC if appropriate.
MBNA Limited must,  on receipt  of evidence such as an invoice, pay Ms G the lower  
of any costs she incurs in disposing of the dryer, or £30.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020. 
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9935114