K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about advice given by The Falcon Group  Limited (Falcon) to invest in 
the Invesco Perpetual AIM VCT (Invesco  VCT).
Mr B has also said that he had to take out a loan from two of his and his wifes companies to 
raise the capital to invest. Mr B wants Falcon to compensate them for the costs  of the loan
and interest paid on it.
Mr Bs wife also invested in the Invesco VCT and shes made a similar complaint.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2019.  I set out the circumstances leading  up to 
Mr B investing £45,000 in the Invesco VCT in March 2005. In summary my findings were:  
I didnt agree with Falcon that the complaint should be dismissed. Falcons 
calculations may have indicated that Mr B hadnt  suffered  any loss, at least  on the 
Invesco VCT itself.  But hed argued that hed incurred borrowing costs  to invest. And 
even if there was no financial loss that didnt mean we wouldnt consider a complaint 
about suitability,  even if we didnt make  an award for financial loss. Nor did I agree 
that it would  be more suitable for the complaint  to be dealt with by a court.  
I didnt think Mr Bs complaint should  be combined with his wifes complaint about  her 
investment in the Invesco VCT. 
Falcons recommendation  to invest in the Invesco  VCT wasnt suitable for Mr B.
From  what Id seen I couldnt be sure that Mr B had borrowed to fund the investment. 
But even  if he had, there was nothing to suggest Falcons adviser  suggested 
borrowing or knew about it. So I didnt think Falcon  was responsible for any losses 
incurred in respect of the borrowing.
I upheld the complaint saying that if Mr B hadnt been advised to invest in the Invesco VCT 
he wouldnt  have invested it anywhere else and it would have remained in his [bank] 
account. 
Falcon had undertaken a calculation which indicated that Mr B hadnt suffered a financial 
loss as a result of the advice. And it appeared that Mr B could sell his holding in the Invesco  
VCT if he wished to do so. So I didnt make any award for financial loss. But I said Mr B had 
suffered distress and inconvenience as a result  of the unsuitable advice  he received. I said 
Falcon should pay him £350 previously recommended  by our service.
Falcon accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr Bs representative said:
Mr B had demonstrated that the adviser had recommended that the investment  in the 
Invesco VCT was financed with borrowed money. He didnt understand  how a 
different conclusion could be drawn  from the evidence. The adviser had full 
knowledge of and advised on every  aspect of Mr Bs finances. It was clear that he 
was unable to finance the investment other  than by borrowing. 
It appeared that I was minded to make  a decision to the effect that Falcon should 
indemnify Mr B against any loss arising from the investment. Mr B suggested I 
phrase my decision accordingly rather than accepting  Falcons calculation  as correct 
or current. The calculation was complex  and involved volatile and fluctuating NAV 
Ref: DRN98046692(net asset  value). The breakeven to profit or loss is very sensitive and could tip either 
way. As a result, whether  or not a profit or loss has resulted cannot  be determined 
until the decision has been issued. A decision assuming no loss would be prejudicial.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As to whether  Mr B borrowed to make  the investment I set out in some  detail in my 
provisional decision the sequence of events and why I couldnt  be sure that Mr Bs 
investment was funded by a loan.  Or, if it was, that Falcons adviser suggested that or even 
knew about it.  
I note what Mr B says about the adviser  having  dealt with all of Mr Bs financial matters  and 
that Mr B could only have  financed the investment by borrowing. I recognised, in my 
provisional decision, that Falcons adviser  needed  to know  where the money  for the 
investment was coming from in order to give suitable advice, including  about affordability,  
But I explained why, if the adviser didnt know that Mr B was borrowing,  I didnt think any 
losses incurred in respect of the borrowing were Falcons responsibility. Thats  still my view.  
As to whether  any redress was due (apart from distress and inconvenience) I said that, from 
what Id seen, Mr B hadnt suffered a financial loss. Thats not the same as saying that 
Falcon should indemnify him against  any loss he might incur.  Nor was there any requirement  
for Falcon  to revisit its calculations as at the date of my final decision. 
Mr Bs representative has said that Falcon has made errors in the past.  But hes not pointed  
to any specific issues with the calculation that Falcon has undertaken. Most  of the source  
data is publically available information.  I agree that the calculation  is complex.  But weve  
checked it again and although the share price and the NAV had reduced it still resulted in an 
overall gain, albeit slightly reduced. 
And, if Mr B wishes to sell his holding, the timing of the matter  is down to him (albeit there 
may be other considerations, such as taxation).  
All in all I still dont think any award  for financial loss (or an indemnity) is warranted.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint.
The Falcon Group Limited should pay Mr B £350  for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by its unsuitable  advice. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9804669