K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the settlement she received under a dental insurance claim with 
Unum Ltd. 
background
Ms B made a claim under her dental  policy after having a dental  examination  and simple  
scaling. Unum reimbursed her £20.60, which it said was the NHS equivalent cost.  Ms B 
thought this was wrong, so she brought a complaint here. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought Unum had worked  
out the claim settlement correctly. 
Ms B didnt agree so the matter has been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The benefit  schedule  for Ms Bs policy says she can have two examinations  per year,  and 
two hygiene  per year. And that Unum will pay 100% of NHS charges for this. 
Ms B had a basic examination and simple  scaling. This was done privately on the same  day 
by her dentist, and Unum  is obliged  to pay whatever the NHS would have charged for this.
The NHS website  says that a Band 1 course  of dental treatment charge is £22.70  (though  it 
was £20.60 at the time of the claim). It says This covers an examination,  diagnosis  
(including X-rays), advice  on how to prevent future  problems, a scale and polish if clinically 
needed, and preventative  care such as the application of fluoride varnish or fissure  sealant if 
appropriate.
As Ms Bs dentist carried out the scaling at the same time as her examination, I think  this 
would fall under a Band 1 course of treatment. Under the NHS, that would have incurred a 
charge of £20.60 at the time of the claim. This is the amount Unum has reimbursed Ms B for 
her claim, which Im satisfied  is correct. 
Ms B says that before  Unum took over the policy, she had a dental check-up and hygienist 
treatment, and although the two were billed separately,  she was reimbursed in full for the 
check-up and received a part payment for the hygienist treatment (which she says cost £65).  
Ms Bs policy year ran from 1 April 2017 to 31 March  2018. Ive looked at her claims history 
for that year, though I havent  seen  the claim forms. 
Ms B made a claim in April 2017 for £20.60 and this was reimbursed in full. I assume this is 
the check-up/examination shes referred  to. Ms B later had treatment costing £150 in May 
2017. I dont know  what this was for. Then  in July 2017, Ms B made  a claim for treatment 
costing £65. She did so again in December 2017. On both occasions,  the insurer reimbursed 
her £20.60. I assume the last two claims were for the hygienist  treatment  Ms B says she 
received that cost £65.
Ref: DRN96405882As the hygienist  treatment costing £65 apparently wasnt carried  out at the same  time as her 
basic examination  (and therefore wasnt one course of treatment),  this explains why she was 
able to successfully  claim the equivalent  NHS  cost for Band 1 treatment for her hygiene  
visits as well as her previous examination. 
Incidentally, Ms Bs latest claim (that is the subject of this complaint) was for treatment that 
apparently took place  on 31 March  2018. If the two treatments costing £65 each were indeed 
both for hygienist treatment, then Ms B had already used up her allowance  for two hygiene 
visits in the 2017/18 policy year in any event. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9640588