K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that the car he acquired on finance  from Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In March 2018 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional  sale agreement 
with Santander.  At the point of supply  the car was approximately 10 years  old and had 
covered 105,000  miles. In August 2018  the car lost power and there  was a loud engine 
noise. 
Mr D contacted Santander to complain about  issues he was experiencing with the timing 
chain and smoke emitting from the car. He said that neither  the dealership nor the warranty 
company were willing to cover the costs of repairs to the timing chain.
Santander arranged  for an independent  inspection to be carried out in September  2018. At 
the time of the inspection the car had covered  approximately 11,000  miles since the point  of 
supply. The independent engineer was unable to road test the car due to the severe rattling  
noise, which  he thought was due to the timing chain or the flywheel. The engineer  concluded 
that the fault wouldntve been present at the point of supply. Based on the independent  
report, Santander refused to cover the costs of repair.
Mr D wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service. He said the MOT had 
run out at the end of September 2018 and the car had failed due to all four tyres, front 
brakes and offside calliper needing replacing. All issues have now been  fixed but Mr D 
doesnt think its fair that hes had to spend  so much money on the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She wasnt  persuaded that the issues with the 
car were present at the point of supply.
Mr D didnt agree. He didnt accept the independent inspection  as proof that the fault wasnt 
present at the point of supply because  the engineer had said that the engine would have to 
be dismantled before he could fully confirm.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Mr D and Santander disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point 
of supply. In order  to reach a decision I need to look at all of the available  evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether I think  the car was of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN99735892Where a fault occurs  in the first 6 months  theres  a presumption that it was present at the 
point of supply.  After 6 months the burden  of proof is reversed  and its up to the consumer to 
prove the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr D reported issues with the timing chain, engine noises and smoke in August 2018. This 
was within  the first 6 months so Ive looked  at the available evidence to see whether 
Santander has shown  that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the independent report. This identifies  an issue with the timing chain and notes 
that there  is engine noise.  Because the engineer wasnt able to road test the car he hasnt 
commented on the smoke  emissions.  The engineer concluded  that the issue with the timing 
chain wouldnt have  been present at the point  of supply.
I appreciate that Mr D doesnt accept the report because he feels  the engineer wasnt 
conclusive about the nature of the fault. Ive no reason to doubt  the engineers professional  
opinion. Ive also taken  into account the fat that the car was 10 years old at the point  of 
supply with over 100,000  miles on the clock. As cars get older, its likely that component  
parts will need repair  or replacement due to wear and tear.
Ive also taken into account that Mr D covered significant mileage in the car since  the point of 
supply. If the fault had been present at the point of supply I would have expected  Mr D to 
experience problems much sooner than he did. This is particularly so with a moving 
component part such as the timing  chain. If the chain  had been  faulty  I dont think the car 
could have covered  the mileage it did over a period  of 6 months.
I understand the car had other issues at MOT.  These issues  have arisen outside of the 6 
month period  and I havent seen any evidence  to suggest that they were present at the point 
of supply.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  and whilst I appreciate  Mr Ds frustration 
that hes had to spend money on repairing the car, Im not persuaded that the issues  were  
present at the point of supply. Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply, so I wont  be asking Santander  to pay for the repairs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9973589