K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs E says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs E opened a store card account in a shop  in 2000. At the same  time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Es store card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Es application for the store card.  It includes a section  on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). It instructs  the applicant only to sign if they require  the 
cover. Mrs E has signed specifically to indicate  that she wished to take the cover.  
I acknowledge that Mrs Es representatives  have suggested that the application may 
have been filled in by the sales representative.  And I accept that thats  possible.  But 
I think that it would have been  clear  to Mrs E from the way the form was set out that the 
PPI was optional.  And given  that Mrs E signed  specifically to take the cover, I think  she 
decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice- although I can understand why she 
may no longer  remember this, so many years  later.
FICL didnt advise  Mrs E to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave  Mrs E enough information to enable  her to 
decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed have had of 
making her monthly repayments if she was unable  to work.
Ref: DRN91153012Mrs Es told us shed  have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if shed been  off sick. But if shed made a successful claim on 
the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her store  card. 
And it would have  done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance had been repaid- whichever was the 
earliest. So it would potentially  have covered Mrs E for longer than shed have been  
entitled to sick pay for. Whats  more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
she received  from her employer. So I think the policy could have been useful for Mrs E, 
especially as shes told us she didnt  have any other  means she could  have used to 
make her store  card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
Mrs E says she wasnt given enough information to make an informed decision about  
whether the policy  was suitable for her. I accept that its possible the information FICL  
gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive concluded that 
she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover,  even if 
shes understandably forgotten that now. She was eligible for the policy,  and doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example 
provisions about unusual working  arrangements or existing medical conditions). Im 
satisfied that it would have been  clear from the application  form that there would be 
monthly premiums to pay for the cover. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  
was unaffordable for Mrs E.
Taking everything into account,  Im not convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Mrs E off taking  it out. So I dont  think shes  lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Es comments,  including what shes  said about not having 
been told she had the option of looking elsewhere for an alternative policy.  But FICL wasnt 
obliged to tell Mrs E about products  that might have  been  available from other providers. So 
this doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9115301