K821x#15Complaint
Mr N has complained about advice he received from Portafina  LLP to transfer a defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr N is being represented by a third party  but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr N.
Background
Mr N was introduced to Portafina in 2015 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
Mr N spoke with Portafina in December 2015.  A fact-find was completed which noted that Mr 
N was 57 years old and married, that he earned  £23,000 per annum and held around  
£30,000 in an Individual Savings Account (ISA). He didnt have any other investments or 
savings. It noted  Mr N held retained benefits within a final salary occupational pension 
scheme (OPS), which had offered a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of £117,054.  
The fact-find recorded that Mr N wanted to retire at age 63 or 63.
Portafina carried out a risk-profiling  exercise  and determined  Mr N had a balanced  attitude  
to risk. Portafina wrote to Mr N on 21 December  2015 and recommended that he transfer  his 
OPS benefits into a new SIPP. It also said that the investment advice would be provided  to 
him by Firm C.
On 8 March 2016 Portafina spoke with Mr N on the telephone and he confirmed that he 
wished to draw a tax-free cash lump sum (TFC) from his pension  of around £29,000.
In 2018 Mr N complained  to Portafina  that the advice to transfer his OPS  benefits was 
unsuitable for him. He also said Portafina had failed to provide investment advice and his 
funds had not been invested until a new adviser recommended  he transfer to a new SIPP in 
November 2016.  However, Portafina rejected his complaint, saying the transfer was suitable  
for him and it wasnt responsible for providing any investment  advice. Mr N then brought  his 
complaint to this service.  
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt think 
Portafina had sufficiently demonstrated that transferring his OPS benefits  into a Personal  
Pension Policy was in Mr Ns best interests.  She thought it was highly unlikely that the 
required critical yield would be achieved and that Mr N was likely to be worse off in 
retirement. The adjudicator also didnt think Mr N actually needed to draw  his TFC at the 
time, as he had other savings he could have accessed, and he confirmed in the telephone  
call of 6 March 2018 that he wasnt sure what he was going to do with it or whether he 
needed it. Lastly, the adjudicator said that she didnt believe it was possible for Portafina to 
provide suitable  advice  without knowing where the funds  were going to be invested. 
Portafina didnt  agree. It said the critical yield was not as relevant  as Mr N didnt  want to 
purchase an annuity. It said the Lifetime Hurdle  rate had been used instead,  which they 
believed was achievable. Portafina disagreed that Mr N did not need to access his TFC,  
Ref: DRN91824282saying that the ISA funds were not accessible. It also felt that Mr N did not have as much 
reliance on his pension  fund because his wife also held OPS benefits. Portafina maintained 
it should not be held responsible for the investment advice which  was to be provided by 
Firm C.
Because the parties have  been unable to agree the case has now come  to me to make  a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules about transferring benefits from an OPS 
requires firms to start from the assumption a transfer will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests  (Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook COBS 19.1.6). This guidance reflects the fact that defined 
benefits, offering  guaranteed, inflation-proof  income for life, are extremely  valuable. It 
follows that in order for a transfer, involving irreversible loss of the benefits to be suitable, 
there must be significant advantages in favour  of transfer, sufficient to outweigh  the 
significant disadvantage of loss of guaranteed benefits.
COBS 19.1.7 is also particularly relevant here:
When a firm advises  a retail client on a pension  transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients  attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would
have to be achieved  to replicate the benefits  being given up.
On 18 January 2013 the regulator also issued an alert about  advising on pension  transfers  
with a view to investing pension monies  into unregulated products through  a SIPP. Whilst it 
appears Mr N was forgotten  about by Firm C and didnt  end up investing his pension funds 
at all until a new adviser was appointed in November 2016,  I still think  this is relevant here 
as it sets out the regulators view on firms providing suitable advice as a whole. The 
regulator said:
The [FCAs] view is that the provision of suitable  advice generally  requires consideration  of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes . It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  
that, where a customer seeks advice  on a pension transfer in implementing a wider 
investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall 
investment strategy  the customer is contemplating
The FCA issued a further alert in April 2014,  which stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
Ref: DRN91824283If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable  and amount  to conduct that falls well short 
of firms obligations under  our Principles for Businesses and Conduct  of Business rules. In 
particular, we are reminding firms  that they must  conduct their business with integrity 
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and COBS, which Portafina was subject to. And with reference to PRIN and COBS,  
the alerts  said a firm would fall short of its obligations under these rules if it didnt familiarise 
itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be able to recommend  a new 
product, like a SIPP, without doing  so.
So, I think its clear that in order to give suitable advice, Portafina had to have  a good 
understanding of the investments Mr N intended to make. This is because it couldnt  
provide any assurance  that the transfer out of the OPS would be in Mr Ns best interest if it 
didnt know how his funds  would be invested and the likely  estimated return.
Portafina says that its advisers carried out extensive  due diligence  on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company  directors, analysing accounts and information about 
previous complaints. It maintains  that Portafina followed FCA guidelines when only advising  
on the pension  transfer by performing the attitude to risk assessment. It said Firm C wasnt  
bound by this assessment  and could have recommended any investments they thought  
were suitable for Mr N. Portafina  says it was satisfied Firm C was qualified  to provide 
investment advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to assess the pension transfer 
and the other to provide  investment advice.
Portafina hasnt  provided us with evidence of the due diligence  it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina  had carried the general  due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in 
the alerts. The checks it made on Firm C weren't specific to the investments envisaged  for 
Mr N. I also havent seen  any evidence  that further  checks were  made  by Portafina to 
satisfy itself that the pension transfer  advice  it was giving  to clients was aligned with the 
investment advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary 
part of the suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual  clients. But I think  it 
was also a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about  by the ongoing  relationship 
it had with Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns  of unsuitable or unaligned advice, 
which could then be identified and addressed.
Portafina didnt  actually specify in its suitability report what  it considered  wouldve  been a 
suitable investment  portfolio for Mr N. It also didnt check with Firm C what  investments  it 
was going to recommend for Mr N before recommending  the transfer. So, there  was no 
opportunity for Mr N to assess  whether the recommendation made by Portafina would align 
with any subsequent recommendation made by Firm C.
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
Ref: DRN91824284transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. So, in the absence of 
Portafina knowing the investment strategy Firm C intended for Mr N, it couldnt provide him 
with suitable advice to transfer  his OPS.
Portafina recommended Mr N transfer out of his OPS to a SIPP  for essentially  the following 
reasons:
it believed Mr N would likely receive higher pension benefits  if he invested in a 
suitable model portfolio in line with his attitude to risk;
a SIPP  allowed Mr N to take ownership and control of his retirement benefits and 
vary his income;
a SIPP  provided  enhanced death  benefits for his nominated beneficiaries;  and
he could take the maximum TFC.
But as per the above rules and guidance,  the transfer needed to be in Mr Ns best interest 
and any advantages of transferring shouldve outweighed the disadvantages  of giving up the 
guaranteed benefits.
When a firm considers recommending a client transfers out of a defined  benefit scheme, the 
regulator requires  it to carry out a calculation to establish the investment  performance  
required by the new pension in order to match the benefits available  from the transferring
scheme. This is known  as the critical yield.
Portafina completed a pension  transfer value analysis report which showed that a critical 
yield of 13.4% per year was required to match benefits from the OPS if Mr N retired at 65. 
This reduced  to 11% if Mr N took the maximum tax-free cash. However, despite Mr N 
expressing a desire to retire at age 62 or 63, no information  was provided about the growth 
required to match his OPS benefits if he retired at that age. The figures provided were  also 
based on the full transfer value, so it made no allowance  for advice, the plan or other 
ongoing charges.  This meant  the growth needed just to match  the benefits being  given  up 
was understated.  Like the adjudicator, I think the growth required to provide an increase in 
benefits for Mr N was far too high to make the transfer viable. 
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time, the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum projected growth at that time, it was extremely unlikely Mr N would receive a 
higher pension at retirement as a result  of transferring. This also seems to meet with 
Portafinas own estimates of the growth  Mr N could likely expect. In the suitability report 
dated 21 December  2015, it said the average  annualised return  on the investments it was 
recommending for him were:
5.81%  over the past 10 years  and
6.12%  over the past 5 years.
Portafina said that based on the it believed the new plan might match  the growth rate 
required. However, this was quite misleading as Portafina didnt recommend any 
investments for Mr N, and it didnt ask Firm C for any details of the investments it intended to 
Ref: DRN91824285make on Mr Ns behalf. So, it couldnt  say with any certainty  what  return Mr N would likely 
achieve and whether or not this was sufficient to match or better his OPS benefits.
Nevertheless, Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate, which  it said 
was 4.9%,  rather than the critical yield. It did this because it assumed Mr N wouldnt 
purchase an annuity with his fund and would instead  take his benefits via income drawdown.
The guidance under  COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portafina 
should:
1)take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2)have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3)explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4)be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Having thought carefully, Im not satisfied  that using the hurdle rate was appropriate in 
Mr Ns case. Firstly, the hurdle rate is used to determine the growth  required to match  the 
starting pension of the OPS, without increases and without a spouses pension being  
included. Mr Ns OPS provided  a 50% spouses pension and it escalated  in retirement. So 
the hurdle rate doesnt replicate  the benefits  Mr N was giving up, which, as can be seen 
from the above guidance, was what the regulator  wanted businesses to do when comparing 
schemes.
Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a 
personal recommendation to transfer  away from a defined  benefit scheme, a firm should 
not regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined 
benefits pension  scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think  its 
important to emphasise that the starting  point for the transfer advice in this case ought  to 
have been that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G).  So I think Portafina  ought to have made 
Mr N aware that it was in his best interest  to preserve his OPS  benefits.
Mr N was aged 57 at the time the advice  was given, so he had around five or six years  
before he was due to retire. Although the fact-find  recorded that Mr N preferred a drawdown 
arrangement over an annuity  and wanted flexibility, I dont think this was explored by 
Portafina in any meaningful sense.  I also dont think Mr N could say with certainty,  having  at 
least five years before he planned to retire, that he was definitely going to take his benefits 
via income drawdown.  Mr N wasnt expecting to receive any additional guaranteed  income  
in retirement, other than his state pension.  So I dont think  it was right to make the 
assumption that he would,  more  likely  than not, take his benefits via drawdown when he 
retired. I also think Portafina ought to have advised  him that, it would be more suitable  for 
Mr N to secure a guaranteed income, particularly as this pension was to provide the 
majority of his retirement  income.  And so Portafina  shouldve based its comparison of 
benefits on the critical yield rather than the life time hurdle rate. Im therefore satisfied that 
the appropriate growth rate to use was the critical  yield figure of 11%, as I think  its clear 
Mr N wanted to take tax-free  cash at some point rather  than the full pension.
Ref: DRN91824286In the suitability report, Portafina stated Firm C would provide their investment 
recommendations. But without having  an understanding of Firm Cs proposed investment 
strategy, I dont think Portafina were in a position to know whether the transfer  advice was 
suitable. But even  without knowing Firm Cs proposed investments, the critical yield was far 
above the growth Portafina said Mr N could reasonably expect.  And as explained  above,  it 
was also greater than the highest  of the regulators assumed future growth  rates. For this 
reason, I think Mr N was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower  overall  value than 
the OPS at retirement, as a result  of transferring his OPS. And I dont think  that was at all 
made clear to Mr N in the suitability report, which actually gave him the impression he 
would obtain increased pension benefits as a result  of transferring.
The critical yield isnt the only factor that needed  to be taken  into account when assessing 
whether Mr N should transfer  his benefits.  Consideration also had to be given to Mr Ns 
attitude to risk. 
Portafina says that Mr Ns attitude to risk was balanced. However,  as noted by the 
adjudicator, Portafina  also described  his attitude to risk as moderately cautious in the 
suitability report,  which wouldve  been  confusing to Mr N. However, based on the risk 
attitude profiling questionnaire that was completed  by Portafina, Im satisfied Portafina 
treated Mr N as having a balanced attitude  to risk. But having  considered  the information 
provided, Im not persuaded that assessment was right.  
The FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued in 
March 2011 about assessing suitability, about  how firms  shouldnt  rely solely on risk profiling 
tools to establish  their clients attitude  to risk. The FCA said that firms should have a robust 
process for assessing  the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer  responses to questions  
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated.  
Ive reviewed the information gathered  by Portafina  at the time. This includes the fact-find, 
the Risk Attitude  Profiling  Questionnaire  and the suitability report. But it seems  to me that 
Portafinas assessment  of Mr Ns attitude  to risk was mostly based  on the outcome of the 
Risk Attitude Profiling Questionnaire, giving him a score of 51, which  equated to balanced.
I dont think that was reasonable or in line with the FCAs guidance.  Furthermore, Mr N gave 
answers in the Risk Attitude Profiling Questionnaire that suggested a lower attitude to risk. 
For example, Mr N gave the following answers to the following statements:
1)People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  Agree
2)I feel comfortable about investing in the stockmarket  Disagree
4)I generally look for safer investments, even  if it means lower returns  Agree
5)Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters  Agree
9)I find investment matters easy  to understand  Disagree
11)Ive little experience  of investing in stocks and shares  Agree
13)I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions I've made  Agree
Ref: DRN9182428715)Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments  Agree 
In Portafinas  suitability report,  a balanced  investor was described as follows:
Balanced investors typically have  moderate levels of knowledge about financial 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters.  They  
may have some  experience of investment, including investing in products containing  
risky assets such as equities  and bonds.
In general, balanced  investors understand that they have  to take investment  risk in 
order to be able to meet  their long-term goals. They  are likely to be willing to take risk 
with at least part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain  outcome for a 
gamble provided  that the potential  rewards from the gamble  are high enough. They  
will usually  be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly,  but 
do still suffer from some feelings  of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
Given some  of the answers  Mr N gave  to the statements,  Im not persuaded Mr Ns attitude  
to risk couldve  been reasonably assessed  as balanced.  In my view, Mr Ns responses to the 
statements show him to be an inexperienced  investor who is uncomfortable  with investing in 
the stockmarket and is generally more risk-averse. So, I dont think  he fit the profile of 
Portafinas balanced attitude  to risk.
Mr Ns circumstances at the time of the advice also do not suggest he had much  capacity  for 
loss, which  is an important aspect  of any risk-profiling exercise.  Mr Ns OPS benefits  
constituted the entirety of his retirement  savings and he wouldve been reliant on this for his 
future income. So, a loss to those benefits wouldve had a significant  impact on his pension 
income later in life. Portafina has said that Mr Ns wife also had an OPS so this could also be 
relied upon. But this doesnt seem to have  been part of Portafinas reasoning in making the 
recommendation  Mrs Ns OPS isnt mentioned  in the suitability report. And without 
knowing the value  of her fund, or what Mr Ns future  income needs were,  I dont  think it is fair 
to say Mr N could afford to put all of his pension funds at risk just because his wife also had 
OPS benefits. With this in mind, and taking into account Mr Ns inexperience and time to 
retirement, overall, I think a fairer  assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk wouldve been low-
medium. 
Whether Mr N had a balanced  or low-medium  attitude to risk, I dont think it was reasonable 
for Portafina to recommend he transfer his OPS benefits. Mr N wouldve needed to take 
substantially more risk than he was prepared to take just to potentially equal the benefits he 
could expect in retirement  if he remained in the OPS. And as per the regulators rules, there 
had to be clear advantages  to Mr N transferring  out in order to outweigh  the security  of the 
benefits he was giving  up.
Portafina says that Mr Ns combined objectives  of accessing his TFC and leaving his full 
pension to his wife and child in the event of his death were sufficient grounds to recommend 
the transfer.
But having  listened to a recording of the call in March 2016, I dont think  it is at all clear that 
Mr N needed to access his TFC straight away. In my view, accessing the TFC was very 
Ref: DRN91824288much a nice-to-have and there was no specific need for the money at this time. When  the 
representative asked  Mr N what he intended to use the TFC for, he said:
I dont know yet. Were were planning on buying  some property or wait til that financial 
bloke comes from your place.
When the representative said that his understanding was that the cash  would  be used to 
purchase property, Mr N said:
It could  be. Might not be, I dont know. Ive not really decided yet.
Mr N then asked how much  the money  would make in a month  if it was left invested.
This exchange does  not suggest to me someone  who needed to access  their TFC. Rather  it 
seems Mr N was accepting what  was being offered to him but he hadnt earmarked it for any 
particular purpose.  In my view, this is not a reasonable  justification  for giving up guaranteed,  
inflation-proof benefits. Furthermore,  Mr N could access the TFC from his OPS  at age 59; 
only two years later. So, this ought to have  been  highlighted to Mr N and factored into the 
recommendation. 
Mr N had savings of £30,000 in an ISA. This was touched upon by the representative in the 
call of March 2016, when Mr N was asked whether he might use his savings for a property 
purchase as well. But Mr N repeated that he didnt know, and said he had a lot going on (he 
was being treated for cancer  at the time of the advice). This again supports my view that 
whatever plans Mr N may have had for the cash he already had and would receive from the 
pension, were yet to be formulated. Portafina  has suggested these funds were inaccessible, 
but it hasnt provided  any evidence  to support this and it also doesnt appear as part of the 
reasoning for Mr N taking  his TFC in the suitability report. So, I dont  think  this was a genuine 
consideration.
Overall, I dont  think there was an immediate  need  for Mr N to access his TFC.  So, I dont 
think it wouldve been a reasonable recommendation for him to transfer his OPS benefits  just 
to access the TFC.
Portafina also argues  that a good reason  to transfer  was so that Mr N could leave his 
pension funds to his wife and child. But this isnt supported by the discussion around this in 
the phone  call of March 2016.  When asked  if Mr N was concerned  about  the death  benefits 
of the plan and whether he wanted  to leave it to his wife and daughter, he said no. This 
would appear  to contradict Portafinas earlier notes  in the fact-find that Mr N was interested 
in leaving his pension  to them. On balance I think that Mr N most likely expressed a 
preference for leaving  his pension to his wife and daughter, but it doesnt seem to have been 
a motivating factor. In any event,  I think Portafina  should know  that long-term security in 
retirement should not be sacrificed in order to provide a notional benefit for an event that 
may not occur for decades. If Mr N was genuinely concerned  about  providing a benefit  to his 
children in the event  of his death, I wouldve expected Portafina to explore other options, 
such as life assurance, to meet this need  rather  than place his retirement funds at risk.
Portafina has suggested that Mr N's medical condition meant that he was likely to benefit 
from an enhanced  annuity, which would offset any loss of guaranteed  income  provided  by 
his OPS. But there is no evidence this point  was discussed with Mr N, and there  was also no 
guarantee of what level of enhancement would have been available to Mr N as a result  of his 
medical history, and no quotations were obtained  to illustrate this. So again, this wasnt part 
Ref: DRN91824289of Portafinas  reasoning  in the advice  given at the time. And Im not persuaded that the 
potential for an enhanced  annuity later in life was a good enough  reason to transfer his OPS 
benefits in 2016. This couldve been  explored  when Mr N was actually  due to retire.
For the reasons  set out above, Im not persuaded the advice to transfer  was suitable for 
Mr N. And if suitable advice had been  provided, Im satisfied  Mr N wouldve remained in his 
OPS.
I understand that Firm C did not provide Mr N with any investment advice and his funds were 
left in cash. Mr N sought advice  from another firm W, who recommended  a range  of 
investments in December  2016. Mr Ns representative has explained  that the investments W 
recommended were unsuitable  for Mr N and are now illiquid.
Ive thought about the fact that Firm C was supposed to provide Mr N with investment 
advice. And the fact Portafina may argue that W should be also be held partly  responsible  
for Mr Ns loss. But for the reasons already  given,  I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully 
responsible for Mr Ns loss. Ultimately  Firm C didnt provide Mr N with any advice, and 
Portafina recommended he should  transfer  his OPS  benefits to the SIPP to be held in cash, 
without ensuring  the subsequent investments he would  go on to make,  either through  Firm C 
or an alternative adviser, were suitable for him. So, in my view,  the entirety of Mr Ns loss 
stems from Portafinas unsuitable advice to transfer away from his OPS.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mr N to seek further advice from another  firm in the 
circumstances, given  Portafina failed to ensure investment  advice had been  provided  by 
Firm C and that any such advice was suitable  for Mr N. Overall,  if Mr N had been  given  
suitable advice  by Portafina, Im satisfied he wouldve remained in his OPS and as such, 
would not have been vulnerable to any further alleged unsuitable advice provided by Firm C 
or W.
Fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Portafina to put Mr N, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the OPS.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB pension  transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance  of the decision.  If this is completed 
before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, Portafina must re-run  
the calculation  within a month  of the amended guidance being  published   ensuring that any 
shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly  made  up to Mr C. Portafina need 
only re-run the calculation once, to take account  of amendments currently  planned  by the 
Ref: DRN918242810FCA. Portafina does  not subsequently need  to recalculate following any further amendments  
the regulator might later make.
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr N in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ns contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ns likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portafina LLP should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr N in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9182428