K821x#15complaint
Mr Ns representative has complained, on his behalf, that Fairway  Financial  Consultancy
acted negligently  in transferring two of his existing pension  plans  into a Self Invested
Personal Pension (SIPP).  This was used to invest in a Harlequin overseas property
development.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 17 April 2020, a 
copy of which is attached.
In that decision,  I said that I was minded to uphold the complaint in part, for reasons which  
are also set out in that decision.
In summary,  I concluded that, whilst Fairway  had demonstrated failings in the way it had 
dealt with Mr N, the available evidence supported the position that Mr N, with the assistance 
of an unregulated third party introducer, would in any case have proceeded with the 
Harlequin investment.
I was, however, persuaded that Fairway  should  refund the £1,000 fee it charged Mr N 
(deducted from his transferred SIPP funds),  with the addition  of interest. I said that this 
would be fair as Fairway  shouldnt have facilitated  the transfers. 
In support of this, I concluded that Fairways  assessment of Mr Ns attitude to investment  risk 
was confusing, and that it had itself expressed the view that Mr N didnt understand what  he 
was doing. I noted that, nevertheless, Fairway  was prepared to accept Mr N as an insistent 
client and process the transaction, when all other  circumstances should have made it 
obvious that doing so was contrary to his best interests.
I noted that Fairway  might  argue that, even if it had declined to transact  the business, it 
would have still charged for the financial assessment which led to that conclusion   in other 
words a non-contingent fee.
But I thought it was doubtful that it would have  charged Mr N for this, or that even if it had, 
Mr N would have been in a position  to pay it. But I invited Fairway to provide  evidence that it 
had successfully charged other individuals where it had declined to transact  business.
The response of Mr Ns representative to the provisional decision
In summary,  Mr Ns representative said the following:
Previous decisions were at variance with the finding Id made  namely  that no 
liability fell upon Fairway  as it was my guess that Mr N would have taken  similar 
action with an unknown entity at a later date. 
Disproportionate weight was being  applied to the matter of the bung   the cash 
advance payment which would be made to Mr N if he invested in Harlequin.  This was 
the representatives description rather than Mr Ns. He was, however, sure that what 
had happened  was illegal.
In his experience  of dealing with similar cases, there was some kind of pecuniary 
advance in 75% of them.  But this hadnt  prevented our organisation from issuing 
decisions upholding the complaints.
Ref: DRN90057902Mr N was a layman and clearly understood that the money  was being paid to him as 
a business loan for becoming a sub agent of Harlequin. He was also told that it was 
being described as a loan purely for Harlequins  tax reasons  and wouldnt need to be 
repaid.
That Mr N had a historic gambling problem and personal debts was no different to 
many other peoples circumstances.
The call our investigator  had with Mr N demonstrated that Fairways actions had 
been non-compliant.
Mr N was told by the third party introducer that the arrangement would be win-win, 
in that the investment would be profitable  and he was going  to receive the advance  
payment. His keenness to complete the process   and his chasing of it  was 
therefore unsurprising.  Even if he didnt have  debts, he would have been keen to 
establish the investment.
In another  case decided by this service, the cash advance had been  three  times the 
size of Mr Ns in percentage  terms, but this hadnt prompted the deciding 
ombudsman to conclude that the consumer would have  gone  elsewhere to complete 
the transaction if the advising business had declined  to do so.
Mr N had repeatedly said in the telephone  call with our investigator that he wouldnt 
have done it. Specifically,  when put to him that he was an insistent  client,  Mr N told 
the investigator that I can assure  you that if I was told not to do it I wouldnt have 
done.
If he wouldnt have done  it then, he wouldnt have done it in the future through  any 
other business. The issue of exactly what paperwork was being sent to Mr N also 
then become relevant. 
With regard to my conclusion that, despite  Fairways regulatory breaches, the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, there was no reason to depart  from conventional legal 
analysis of breach  of duty, causation and calculation of loss.
The court of appeal identified in the case of Equitable Life Assurance  Society  v Ernst  
& Young [2003] EWCA five questions to be asked  by the court:
oDoes a legally enforceable duty of care exist?
oIf so, what  is the scope of that duty?
oWhat is the prospective  harm,  or kind of harm,  from which the person to 
whom the duty is owed  falls to be protected?
oHas there been a breach of that duty?
oIf so, was the loss complained of caused by that breach, or was it caused by 
some other events or events unconnected with the breach?
Citing a separate  case, it was asserted that legal causation  involves  the relationship 
between the loss or damages suffered by the plaintiff and the fault of the defendant. 
The law distinguishes between a breach that was the effective cause of the loss, and 
one that was merely the occasion of the loss. In this instance, the loss clearly  fell 
within the scope  of Fairways duty.
The chain of causation could be broken where  there was an intervening act, as 
summarised in the case of Stacey  v Autosleeper Group Ltd [2014] EWCA.
(i) Although the legal burden of proof that the breach of contract caused loss rests 
throughout on the claimant, there is an evidential burden on the defendant if it 
contends that there was a break in the chain of causation, 
Ref: DRN90057903(ii) To break the chain  of causation, the intervening conduct of
the claimant must be of such impact that it obliterates the wrongdoing of the claimant 
in the sense that the claimant's conduct  must  be the true cause of the loss rather  
than the conduct of the defendant. That is because,  where the defendant's conduct 
remains an effective cause of the loss, at least ordinarily the chain  of causation will 
not be broken,  
(iii) It is difficult  to conceive of anything less than unreasonable conduct  on the part of 
the claimant breaking the chain, 
(iv) Even  unreasonable  conduct will not necessarily break the chain, for example 
where the defendants conduct remains an effective cause, 
(v) Reckless conduct ordinarily breaks the chain of causation,  although there is no 
general rule that only reckless conduct  will do so. 
(vi) The claimants state of knowledge at the time of and following the defendants 
breach is likely to be a factor of great significance, 
(vii) However  it does  not follow that actual knowledge of the breach is a pre-requisite  
of breaking the chain,  
(viii) The question of whether there  has been  a break in the chain is fact sensitive. In 
a given case the determination  of whether  the chain of causation is broken may 
involve the cumulative effect of a number of factors which have  the effect of removing 
the wrongdoing sued on as a cause, 
(ix) Whilst the authorities provide guidance  they are not to be read as statutes,
It was suggested  that I had overlooked  the rule that where the loss caused by the 
defendants breach  of duty was the very loss against which the fulfilment  of that duty 
would have avoided  harm, it wasnt open  to the defendant to rely upon the claimants 
own act in going on to bring about  the loss as an intervening  act.
Citing further case law, having  found  Fairway  to be in breach of its duty to refuse  to 
transact the business, it was contended that I should have concluded that it ought to 
be held liable for the loss caused by that failure.
The hypothetical possibility  that Mr N would in any case  have arranged the 
transaction with the help of the introducer should not serve to interrupt  the chain of 
causation.
It was further argued that I hadnt  given  proper consideration to Mr Ns own evidence 
that, if hed been  told not to proceed, he wouldnt have.  I hadnt  fairly considered  the 
impact of effective financial advice in evaluating  what course Mr N would  have 
pursued.
It was also difficult  to conceive of an authorised firm which could have  properly 
transacted the transfers and subsequent Harlequin investment on an execution  only 
basis. If Fairway  was unable to properly  categorise Mr N as an insistent client,  nor 
could any other  firm acting in compliance with the COBS rules. Nor could the 
business have  been properly implemented on an execution only basis.
The provisional decision began with, but then departed from applying the 
conventional law for no discernible  reason. It also denied Mr N the argument that, 
even if he had hypothetically used another authorised SIPP provider,  such  a 
business could  have transacted business which no business complying with its 
regulatory duties  could have done.
The alternative hypothetical business must logically be one which would have  
adhered to its regulatory duties  a properly performing SIPP  provider  and couldnt 
be one which was willing to breach  them.
Ref: DRN90057904The provisional decision was at variance with hundreds, if not thousands, of 
decisions which werent simply  analogous to, but facsimiles  of what had happened  
here. 
Our assertion that this case, as with others,  would be decided on its own merits, was 
problematic. This case was identical to others which had been  upheld.
Perhaps the most significant concern was the omission of the FCAs core principles 
for business in my provisional decision. My focus  had fallen  into error by an exclusive 
examination of certain rules  contained within COBS, all of which I had in any case  
said Fairway were in breach of.
It had been  found to be the case in our judgements that a business could comply with 
rules, but still be found wanting with regard to the principles.
Mr Ns representative also brought to my attention a decision issued  by the Pensions 
Ombudsman, in which he concluded that a SIPP provider couldnt avoid responsibility for its 
actions on the question of whether the consumer wouldnt  in any case  have been dissuaded 
from proceeding with an investment if risk warnings had been  given. 
The Pensions Ombudsman said that it was the SIPP providers responsibility to put the 
consumer into a position where he could  make an informed choice, but it failed  to do so.
Mr Ns representative said that there  was symmetry here with Mr Ns complaint.
Fairways response to the provisional  decision
Fairways representative has also responded to my provisional decision in the following 
terms:
It noted my conclusion  and the reasons for it - that nothing  which  Fairway did or 
said would have  altered Mr Ns decision to proceed.
But it was difficult to see how Fairway could be faulted for treating Mr N as an 
insistent client  there was no specific regulatory guidance in place until several  
years later.
My finding that Fairway should not have transacted the business was a very strong 
proposition, given that Mr N was a man of full age and capacity, who had been 
advised not to proceed.
There were  considerable risks involved in the Harlequin investment, but there was 
also the possibility  of substantial financial gain. 
It was one thing  to warn a client, but an outright prohibition for Mr Ns protection was 
another. It was open to parliament to impose  prohibitions, but in their absence,  
companies were entitled to offer promotions, and people were  entitled to invest  in 
them.
It was therefore an extreme conclusion that Fairway shouldnt have allowed Mr N to 
invest in Harlequin
There was a right to decline to transact business, as expressly  stated in COBS 
10.3.3, but there was no obligation  to do so.
That particular conclusion also differed from those reached  by other ombudsmen at 
this service. In one decision, the ombudsman concluded that, even though  
encouragement to invest was suspected from Harlequin, the extensive risk warnings 
given by Fairway meant that it was possible  to process that client  on an insistent  
basis.
Ref: DRN90057905In another  decision, the same  ombudsman concluded that, although a business  
needed to act in the clients best interest,  this didnt necessarily mean  that it should 
refuse to act altogether. And the ombudsman also noted  that the business had taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that the client understood what he was doing.
In this case, Fairway treated Mr N as an insistent client and gave clear  and 
unambiguous risk warnings.
Whilst each case turned on its own facts, common law required consistency in these 
types of cases.  Arbitrariness was a ground  for judicial review.
Relating to my reference to another case where  Fairway declined to act, it was up to 
Fairways discretion  as a commercial enterprise  to decide for whom  it should act. It 
didnt follow that, where there was a preparedness to act for one there would be a 
breach of duty where it acted for another.
Mr N had already made  his firm intention  to invest  in Harlequin known to Fairway,  
and chased the progress of the transaction when  he thought  it was too slow.  Had 
Fairway then informed Mr N it wouldnt be proceeding this would have been  an 
obvious failure to treat Mr N fairly.
The circumstances in that separate case where Fairway had declined  to act were  
also wholly different  to those present here.
With regard to the matter of the advisory fee, at no point had Fairway said that its 
payment would be conditional  on whether it decided  to facilitate the transfer. It was 
agreed that Mr N would pay Fairway £500  for the pensions  advice and a further £500 
to facilitate the transfer.
The decision as to whether to transact  the business was for the financial adviser, but 
this should have no bearing  on Fairways entitlement to charge a separate  advisory  
fee.
Fairway wouldnt  have been  in a position  to provide its advice without first carrying  
out the work  to undertake the assessment of Mr Ns financial circumstances. This 
would have incurred  a charge.
The advice wasnt unsuitable  as acknowledged by the provisional decision. It was 
unreasonable therefore to conclude that where correct advice had been given, but 
the client still wished  to proceed against that advice, the onus should  be on the 
adviser to justify the professional fees.
Mr N had indicated that he was in a position  to pay the £1,000 fee  and that he had 
this money in his current account.  But even if he couldnt, this was irrelevant  and 
Fairway could have taken action  to pursue recovery of the fee.
As to my finding that the enhanced risk questionnaire was likely not sent to Mr N, the 
representative said that Fairway wished to make its advice short  and concise. This 
approach had been endorsed by a senior ombudsman at this service. Had it not kept 
its advice about the risks of the investment as short and concise as possible, it would 
no doubt have  attracted criticism for this.
There was no evidence that the enhanced risk questionnaire  wasnt  sent to Mr N, 
other than the testimony of Mr N himself.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im required by the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP to determine the complaint by reference  to what is,
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN90057906When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I need to take into account relevant: law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance along with standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
I note that both parties have taken some findings  in isolation and out of context. My decision 
is intended to be read as a whole and, in some  instances, I have provided several reasons 
for reaching  a conclusion.  
The further points  raised by Mr Ns representative
Ill initially address  the representatives comment that previous cases, which hes said are 
identical in nature, have had different outcomes as to whether liability can be attributed to a 
business on the basis that the consumer, even if properly advised or denied the business 
services, wouldnt have  acted any differently.
In response, Id firstly say that no two cases are identical, or facsimiles of each  other. 
There may be similarities, but there  will be specific, relevant factors within each case  upon 
which the outcome  will depend. And in reaching my conclusions in this case, Ive considered 
all of the evidence  available to me and all of the circumstances of the complaint. That 
includes the very specific nature of Mr Ns circumstances, as portrayed both by the 
contemporaneous evidence, his comments in bringing the complaint, and the helpful 
supplementary information provided  by his representative, along with what I consider to have 
been his likely objectives at the time of the advice.
I would also assure Mr Ns representative  that there exist other determinations from this 
organisation where the ombudsman has concluded that, even if the advice had been  
different, a consumer would still have taken the same course of action. My provisional 
conclusions were therefore by no means  unique in that regard. I consider my approach  to 
this matter to be consistent, justified on the evidence and in line with the remit of fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive noted the comment  about Mr N having a laymans understanding that the cash  advance 
was being paid to him as a business loan. But that he was also told that it was only being 
described as a loan for tax purposes, and that he wouldnt need to repay  the money. Theres  
an obvious contradiction here  either Mr N understood the money to be a loan or he didnt. 
It cannot be both.
My view is that he believed it to be non-repayable  and I dont think  this is controversial. But 
I dont think it in any case has any bearing on the outcome.  It was a cash payment which  I 
consider Mr N was keen to receive, irrespective of whether  it might  need to be repaid at 
some later date. And although I dont think I need  to make any firm conclusion  on this to 
reach a fair and reasonable determination, I think its in any case  doubtful  as to whether 
Mr N would have been able to repay the sums from money held outside of his SIPP. His 
financial circumstances simply did not permit this. 
Mr Ns representative has also sought  to downplay the importance  of Mr Ns circumstances 
in deciding how determined Mr N might  have been to receive the cash  advance. Its been 
argued that his gambling debts were insubstantially  different to many other peoples, and 
having been offered a win-win combination of an upfront cash  payment and the allure  of 
significant returns, his chasing  of the transfer  and reinvestment process  was only natural.
Ref: DRN90057907But Im not persuaded by this argument, which is in any case  in stark  contrast  to the 
portrayal of Mr Ns financially straitened situation  in the representatives previous account. 
As a reminder, weve been told the following:
Mr N had gambling debts; 
He had an outstanding loan; 
He had already  (albeit unsuccessfully)  attempted  to liberate his pension to access  
cash; 
He lived from week to week,  if not day to day, on his finances; and 
The cash  payment  was therefore the driver behind the transfers and reinvestment.  
I also accept Mr Ns assessment that he would  have viewed the proposition  put to him by the 
third party introducer  as a win-win. This doesnt  help Mr Ns case here though. And whilst  it 
may be the case that several of the above features  might be quite commonplace,  I think  it 
would be rare that all of these would apply  to the general population. As such, and as I said 
in my provisional findings, I can understand why Mr N was particularly  keen to receive  a 
cash payment  and why he would, more likely than not, have in any case proceeded with 
the transfer and reinvestment even without the involvement of Fairway. 
To reiterate  my reasoning on this point,  in addition to the above factors  which  contributed to 
Mr Ns determination to access  the cash incentive, this is further reinforced in my view by 
Mr N chasing the process  and complaining  that it was taking too long.
And even  if Fairway had declined to transact the business, there were SIPP providers which  
would have accepted this type of business, and specifically Harlequin investments, on an 
execution only basis. 
And my view remains that, if Fairway hadnt  transacted the business,  Mr Ns introducer  
would have found a different way, most likely through  the execution  only route mentioned  
above, to achieve the same goal.
Ive then thought carefully about the further  contention that Mr N wouldnt have proceeded if 
hed been advised against the transfer by Fairway. 
There are two points to be addressed here.  The first, perhaps most notable, one is that 
Fairway did advise Mr N not to proceed  with the transfers. 
As I said in the provisional decision,  Fairway advised Mr N that he should retain his deferred 
benefits with the occupational pension scheme  as the critical yield was too high to make 
such a transfer feasible.  Fairway also noted that Mr N wanted to retire early, which pushed 
the critical yield required to match the scheme  benefits higher still. Alternatives were  set out, 
one of which was to leave the pension funds where they were. 
Fairway recommended  that course of action, saying that it is difficult to find a reason to 
agree with your request  to transfer on a recommended basis . 
Regarding the proposed transfer  from the personal  pension plan (PPP), Fairway further said 
in the suitability report that transferring this to a highly speculative  SIPP  investment should  
only be considered for more sophisticated investors  who understand the risks involved and 
are aware you can totally lose all of your pension fund monies.
As the PPP provider  also offered higher risk funds,  Fairway said that Mr N would be better
Ref: DRN90057908off keeping it where it was, not only because of the higher charges which  would apply in the
new plan, but because Mr N had no prior experience  in higher risk investments. 
My view remains that the expanded rationale  for these arguments,  along with the 
assessment of the Harlequin investment itself, lie in a document  which I provisionally 
concluded didnt  accompany the suitability report  and which Ill address later in this 
decision. But the suitability report nevertheless contained several instances of Mr N being  
advised not to proceed.
Furthermore, Mr Ns own representative has quite clearly said (using a rather extreme  
example to emphasise this exact point) that it didnt matter what was said to Mr N  if 
Fairway was prepared to transact the business, he would have proceeded. Mr N may have 
more recently, whilst bringing the complaint,  have  said that if he was told not to do it, he 
would have accepted that advice, but I have  to also bear in mind that this is a view 
expressed whilst in the process of bringing a complaint  and with the obvious potential 
benefit of hindsight.
For clarity,  I have taken Mr Ns comments into account, but I must also give them  the 
appropriate weight,  taking other  commentary from his representative and actual 
contemporaneous advice and actions into account as well.
And in terms of the commentary provided around  Mr Ns financial circumstances, his 
representative set out in quite emphatic terms as to why the cash  payment was the incentive 
here. And that nothing which was said or advised  by Fairway would have made  a difference  
to his decision to proceed.  
As a reminder, the representative said that In any event  this letter could  have told him he 
was going to die if he signed  it. It wouldnt have  made any difference at all. The bung was 
the driver.
Arguments in relation to causation, and the law relating  to breaks  in that chain,  have also 
been raised. Im mindful of not only the approach the courts take when applying  these 
considerations, but also the associated case law to which Mr Ns representative  has 
referred. The DISP rules require me to decide  cases on a fair and reasonable basis, taking 
into account all the circumstances  of the case.  That said, I must  have  regard for relevant 
law, and so Ill set out my view on how that case law supports the findings Ive made  here.
I dont disagree with the observations of the law around causation  as set out by Mr Ns 
representative. And in particular,  that if the chain of causation began with Fairway - as has 
been asserted  here - the later help of the introducer shouldnt  interrupt  the chain of 
causation. But Im afraid that the premise as set out by Mr Ns representative of where the 
chain of causation  began  is, in my view, misguided. The chain of causation began with Mr 
Ns initial contact with the third party introducer.  This is what  set him upon the path of 
transferring into the Harlequin investment, and as asserted by Mr Ns representative, it was a 
combination of the high returns touted  by that introducer, along with the cash  incentive, 
which made him keen  to proceed.
My view is that Fairway  erred  because of its failure to decline to transact  the business, but 
the reference here to the courts findings  as to what extent  that act or omission might break 
the chain of causation are distinctly  unhelpful to the argument put forward by Mr Ns 
representative. 
Ref: DRN90057909To further  clarify, my view is that Fairway breached its duty to act in Mr Ns best interests.  
But crucially,  I dont  think Fairways act or omission  altered the chain  of causation which had 
started with Mr Ns initial contact with the introducer.  
To quote directly from the case law referred to by Mr Ns representative  The question of 
whether there has been a break in the chain is fact sensitive. In a given case the 
determination of whether  the chain of causation is broken may involve the cumulative effect  
of a number of factors which have the effect  of removing the wrongdoing sued on as a 
cause. 
The particular facts  of this case persuade me, for all the reasons set out in this and the 
provisional decision, that Fairway didnt break the chain  of causation - this began with the 
third party introducer.  Irrespective of any advice given by Fairway, Mr N would in any case  
have proceeded.  And if Fairway had declined to transact the business, it is my conclusion, 
based on the evidence, that Mr N and the introducer would have found another  way of 
achieving the objective. So, to use the same terminology from that judgement,  I dont think  
the actions of Fairway  obliterated  that initial wrongdoing.
So, my view remains that Fairways actions would  have  made  no difference to the ultimate 
outcome, which  is that Mr N would in any case  have proceeded. 
There may be other cases,  involving unregulated  third party introducers, where this service 
has concluded that the actions, or lack thereof,  of the regulated IFA meant that the chain of 
causation would have  been broken  most likely  that advice not to proceed or a refusal  to 
transact the business  would have prevented the consumer from proceeding. 
But, as Ive said above, we look at cases on their individual merits. And Im afraid  that 
neither of the above scenarios exist here. For the reasons  already set out, and as 
corroborated by Mr Ns representative,  it didnt matter what Mr N was advised to do, 
although I note he was told not to transact the business  he would have proceeded  
regardless. And if Fairway hadnt  transacted the business, Im persuaded on a fair and 
reasonable analysis of the evidence that a combination of the incentive payment  and the 
means at the introducers disposal would have  resulted in Mr N finding an alternative way of 
achieving the objective. 
Ive also thought carefully about whether my provisional finding on this case effectively 
leaves Mr N in limbo  as regards recourse to financial compensation for any losses incurred.
Im aware that, by finding  that Mr N could have used an unknown  party  to transact  the 
business, there might be the impression that there  exists no party  against  whom such  a 
claim could  feasibly be brought.
Mr Ns representative has also argued  that no regulated business could have properly  
transacted the business on an insistent client or execution only basis.
But this isnt the case. My provisional finding was that Mr N would have been able to transfer 
his funds directly to a SIPP provider on an execution  only basis.  That provider wouldnt have 
been required to conduct a suitability  assessment,  or categorise  Mr N as an insistent client. 
It could have accepted the business  on an execution only basis   and as I said in my 
provisional decision, my understanding is that there  were  SIPP  providers who would  have 
been prepared  to do so.
Ref: DRN900579010But the SIPP  provider  would have had its own separate responsibilities for determining  
whether it was appropriate to establish a SIPP  on the known basis.  Irrespective of the 
means of transferring into the SIPP, that provider nevertheless needed to undertake its own 
due diligence into the type of investment to be used  and determine  that it was an 
acceptable asset to be held within Mr Ns SIPP. This would be the case  with any SIPP  
provider through  which  Mr N might ultimately  have invested in Harlequin, even without the 
assistance of Fairway.
And as far as further avenues  of recourse are concerned, consideration doesnt need to 
extend to a hypothetical SIPP provider.  The fact is that Mr N did transfer his pension  funds  to 
a SIPP  provider. My understanding is that the particular SIPP provider used here may not 
have accepted this type of business  without  the involvement of an IFA. But it still needed to 
ensure that the investments were SIPP-able and acceptable  to be held in Mr Ns SIPP.
I make  no finding here as to whether that SIPP provider fulfilled its obligations.  That is 
outside of the scope  of this complaint against  Fairway. And Im in any case aware  that the 
SIPP provider is no longer trading. As such, any complaints against it are being referred to 
the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS). However, the principle remains the 
same. My conclusion regarding the inability of Fairway to prevent Mr N from investing  
doesnt deny Mr N the opportunity of seeking  redress elsewhere  if he so chooses.
Finally, Mr Ns representative said possibly  the most concerning aspect of the provisional 
decision was that Id failed to assess the case against the core regulatory principles, 
preferring instead  to focus upon  specific regulatory  obligations contained in COBS.
I must with respect point  out that dwelling upon the high level principles would have made  no 
practical difference to my ultimate findings  here. I consider my conclusions relating to 
Fairways failures  to be quite unambiguous, without the necessity of dwelling on high level 
regulatory principles  - Fairway failed on a number of counts to adhere  to its regulatory 
obligations, didnt  treat Mr N fairly, and didnt act in his best interests.  
And as I said in the provisional decision, Id taken into account the regulators rules and 
guidance. This included the core principles. 
But Im afraid that if Mr Ns representative considers  that a particular focus in my 
assessment on the high level principles of business  would alter my conclusion  as to whether  
Mr N, for his part, would  in any case have proceeded with the Harlequin investment, he is 
mistaken. And its not easy  to conceive  how such a conclusion might reasonably be drawn.
The further points  raised by Fairways representative
Fairways representative has said that, given the lack of specific  regulations  around insistent 
client categorisation in place  at the time of the advice, it was difficult to see how it could be 
faulted for this.
I have no difficulty here.  There may have  been  no specific regulatory  guidance in place at 
the time,  but as stated in the provisional  decision,  my view remains that the very obvious 
features of this case meant that other  regulatory  requirements, such  as to act in Mr Ns best 
interests, were completely ignored.  
Ref: DRN900579011To reiterate  my reasons for that conclusion, Mr Ns lack of understanding of the proposition 
(as noted by Fairway itself), his contradictory responses to risk attitude, his lack of any 
investment experience and incapacity to sustain any loss, in addition  to the opaque and high 
risk nature of the investment itself meant that not only could Mr N not reasonably be 
described as having  any of the attributes possessed of a genuinely  insistent client, but the 
establishment of these  very facts was where  Fairways involvement should have ended.
Turning to the argument that Fairway had a right, but not an obligation, to decline to facilitate 
the transfers and reinvestment, my view is that there are situations  in which to do so would 
be so obviously contrary to a clients best interests that to transact the business would be 
reckless. And given what Ive said above,  and in the provisional decision, about Mr Ns lack 
of understanding  of what he was doing, I think this quite  arguably meets  that bar. 
In other  decisions referenced by Fairway, the consumers circumstances and level of 
understanding and experience were different  hence the different outcomes. Each case  is 
decided on its own merits. And so Im not concerned here that theres an issue  with the 
consistency or arbitrariness of my findings  in this particular case - to be clear there is not. 
Id also query as to why Fairway might  consider  there to be the right  if not an obligation   
to not transact  business if it wasnt expected that, in certain situations, a business might 
invoke that right. 
Fairway is of course well aware that the right to not transact business is of some  
significance, as evidenced by its use of that right in the case of the other  consumer for whom  
it declined to provide  advice.  Individual  circumstances may differ, but the same  principle  
applies, and I believe is aligned with my view that some circumstances reasonably dictate  
that the business simply should not be transacted. I maintain that this was the case  for Mr N. 
Fairway had the right to decide  whether  or not to transact this business, and had invoked 
that right on at least one other occasion.  It nevertheless decided to proceed in this instance, 
but for all the reasons given, my view is that by doing so it wasnt acting in Mr Ns best 
interests. 
Im also concerned by the comment which seems to suggest that, by declining  to transact 
the business once Mr N had made his intentions clear and had started to chase its progress, 
Fairway would obviously be failing to treat him fairly.  At whatever stage it becomes apparent 
that to proceed  would be so comprehensively against a clients  best interests,  this should be 
of no importance  or relevance to the proper course  of action in that situation. The process 
should end, and the client should  be advised  as to why this is the case.
Turning then to the issue  of the fee charged, my provisional conclusion was that the whole of 
this - £1,000  - should  be returned  to Mr N. My rationale was that Fairway shouldnt have 
transacted the business, and so the fee for doing  so should be repaid  with interest.  I said it 
was doubtful that Fairway would have  charged Mr N if it hadnt transacted the business, and 
that it was doubtful that Mr N would have been in a position to pay it. But I invited  Fairway  to 
provide evidence that it had successfully charged other individuals  where it hadnt transacted  
the business.
Fairway hasnt done so, but has argued that the advisory fee wouldnt have been contingent 
upon the transfers proceeding   this would have been  payable even if it didnt transact  the 
business. Its also said that Mr N did have the ability to pay it as he was recorded  in the fact 
find as having  £1,000  in his current account.
Ref: DRN900579012Ive thought carefully about this, but I remain of the view that the whole fee should be 
refunded. In support of this conclusion, I think its highly  unlikely  that Mr N would have 
wanted, or been in a position,  to enter  into an agreement to pay an advisory  fee in the event 
that the transfer and reinvestment  into Harlequin didnt proceed. I think  its likely that Mr N 
was aware that the transaction would proceed, even  on an insistent client basis, when he 
became a client of Fairway.
 
I realise that Fairway may object  to that conclusion on the basis  that it says it undertook a 
proper assessment of his financial circumstances  before the advice was given. But even 
taking account  of what I consider to have been  very obvious reasons as to why the 
transaction shouldnt  have  proceeded   as set out above  Fairway was prepared to do so 
on an insistent client basis. And it has argued  vociferously  that it is up to a capable,  adult 
individual to decide how to invest their money.  So, I dont think  Mr Ns awareness that 
Fairway would process the transaction at the outset, even on an insistent client  basis  and 
with what it considered to be appropriate risk warnings, is a particularly tendentious 
conclusion to draw.
Ive also noted  the comment relating to the money  which Fairway says Mr N had in his bank  
account  as evidenced by the fact find. But the availability  of this towards paying for an 
advice fee which might result in no transfer   and so no access to the cash  incentive  
seems highly unlikely  to me, especially given what is known about Mr Ns wider 
circumstances and the reasons he wanted  access to the cash in the first place. The prospect 
that Mr N would be prepared to pay for a separate assessment of his financial situation 
which would cost him £500, without the knowledge  that Fairway  would  process it on an 
insistent client basis even  if it considered the transfers unwise, is in my view vanishingly 
remote.
Furthermore, in the suitability report,  it said the following about the fee structure:
From my own point  of view, we have already agreed with you that our charges would be 
£1,000, which is £500 to provide advice in respect of the pensions that you hold and a 
further £500, in order  to facilitate the transfer  of your pension  funds to an alternative  
provider.
This made no mention of the possibility of the transfers not proceeding, or what  would 
happen if Mr N decided  not to proceed. For example,  the suitability report  doesnt say that it 
had been agreed that there  would  be a £500 fee for advice, and that if the advice was to 
transfer, there would  be a further £500 fee for facilitating the transfers. Theres no real 
separation of the two, such that Mr N might reasonably have inferred that a non-contingent  
fee might  in any case be payable, even if the transfers didnt proceed.  
Id also add that, although Fairway has said that the £500 fee was in respect  of the financial  
assessment and that it was non-contingent, the Deduction of Fees Agreement  signed by 
Mr N and dated 6 July 2011 set out a fixed  amount of £1,000 in respect of the transaction. 
No separation was made here between  an advisory  fee which would in any case be due 
from Mr N and the further fee for facilitating the transfers. The agreement  also said that the 
amount would be taken from Mr Ns SIPP. So it would be contingent upon  there  being a 
SIPP from which it could be deducted. And if Fairway intended to collect  this irrespective of 
the transfers proceeding, it should  have made  this clear to Mr N. Had he known this, I dont 
think Mr N would have proceeded. There was no prospect,  certainly from Mr Ns perspective,  
Ref: DRN900579013of there  being a non-contingent arrangement  here. So my finding is that, but for Mr Ns 
confidence that the transaction  would proceed, Fairway would not have had him as a client. 
Fairway has also said that it could have  pursued  recovery of the fee through the courts. But 
given the manner in which the fee was described  as set out above, both in the suitability 
letter and the Deduction of Fees Agreement, I think this would have been unlikely. And 
insofar as Fairways position on this has been emboldened by my comments relating to the 
suitability of its advice  to not transfer, Id refer it to my conclusions on other aspects  of the 
advisory process, which have noted significant  defects, particularly in its attitude  to risk 
assessment and categorisation of Mr N as an insistent client.
My view is that the process Fairway  followed in giving  its advice,  including  its willingness to 
treat Mr N as an insistent client, was  for the reasons given - flawed and not in his best 
interests. My conclusion is that Mr N is likely to have  suffered the same  losses by another  
route with the assistance of the introducer.  But although Ive taken Fairways comments  into 
account, I find it unlikely  it would have been  in a reasonable position  to pursue Mr N directly 
for the fee if it had declined to facilitate  the transfers  for him. So, having considered  all of 
these points, my view is that it would be fair and reasonable to require Fairway to refund the 
entire fee.
Finally, I note that Fairway has objected to my conclusions  on the matter of whether the 
enhanced risk questionnaire was sent to Mr N along  with the suitability  report. Its 
representative has said that the explanation is quite straightforward, in that it wished to make 
the suitability report as concise and short as possible,  as endorsed  by one senior  
ombudsman.
But Im afraid I find that explanation unconvincing.  In the first instance, the fact that the 
analysis of the Harlequin investment lies in a separate  document  doesnt alter the length  of 
the overall content which Mr N was expected  to read. It also doesnt  explain why the 
suitability report would  say that it couldnt  give advice on the Harlequin  investment, yet do 
the precise opposite  in the accompanying document. As a reminder,  it said the following:
I must, at this stage, indicate that we can in no way give any advice with regard to the
Harlequin Property Investment that you intend  to make,  as this is outside of our remit of
advice and you would have to produce  your own due diligence  investigations into whether
this investment is suitable for you and your pension.
If the enhanced  risk questionnaire did in fact accompany the suitability report, I would expect  
to have seen reference to the fact that advice was being given in the separate document  
not the precise opposite.
Fairways representative has said that there  was no evidence that the enhanced 
questionnaire wasnt sent, other than Mr Ns own recollection. But I disagree  on a fair and 
reasonable assessment of the quite persuasive  evidence as set out above  and whilst for 
all the other  reasons given it doesnt change  the outcome of the case  my view remains that 
the enhanced risk questionnaire didnt  accompany the suitability report.
summary
Overall, my conclusions on this case remain the same. Ive noted the comments made  by 
both parties, but for the reasons given  in this  and the attached provisional decision  Im 
Ref: DRN900579014not persuaded, on a fair and reasonable assessment of the facts, that the outcome should 
change.
I remain of the view that Fairway demonstrated  significant failings here.  As Ive reiterated 
above, I dont  think that the enhanced questionnaire was provided  to Mr N and
as outlined in the provisional decision,  the fact finding with regard to his attitude to risk was 
incoherent and not fit for the intended purpose.
Fairway also confirmed its view that Mr N didnt understand what he was doing   but it was 
nevertheless still prepared to accept Mr N as an insistent client  and process the
transaction, when  all other circumstances should  have made it obvious that doing so was
entirely contrary to his best interests.
That said,  given the known circumstances and additional commentary from his 
representative, I havent been  able to ignore Mr Ns likely  determination to access the cash  
payment  and the underlying reasons  for that. And this would have been achieved by 
completing the transfers and reinvestment in Harlequin.
Specifically with regard  to the additional comments made by both parties, as Fairway wasnt 
the genesis of the financial proposition,  my view is that it cannot  have been the beginning of 
the chain of causation.  This lay with the unregulated introducer.  And Im not persuaded that 
any act or omission on behalf of Fairway broke that chain. 
Even if it had declined to transact the business, my view is that Fairway couldnt have 
prevented Mr N from investing in Harlequin. On a fair and reasonable analysis of the facts of 
this case, even without the involvement of Fairway, my view remains that Mr N would have 
proceeded anyway through  other avenues available to him.
My view relating to the return  of the fee paid from Mr Ns pension funds to Harlequin also 
remains the same. In his financial position at the time, Im not persuaded that, had he 
considered there was even a remote possibility of the transfers not proceeding, but 
nevertheless being  asked  to pay £500 for the advisory service, he would have agreed to 
become a client of Fairway.
In closing, I anticipate  that, of the two parties,  this outcome will be most disappointing  to Mr 
N. I think its only fair that I point out that much  of my reasoning  relating to whether Mr N 
would in any case have  proceeded, with or without the assistance  of Fairway, has been 
based upon the account given of Mr Ns circumstances  and intent by his representative. Mr 
Ns representative has himself said that hes used his own language, rather than Mr Ns, to 
describe some aspects  of the case. If Mr N feels that he has in any sense been 
misrepresented, this is something he may of course refer to his representative.
Id also ask Mr N to carefully consider what Ive said about the separate responsibilities of 
the SIPP provider  when deciding what type of investment might  be appropriate to be held 
within a SIPP.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. I direct  Fairway Financial Consultancy 
to compensate Mr N in line with the direction in the attached  provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN900579015Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN900579016 COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
 complaint
Mr Ns representative has complained, on his behalf, that Fairway  Financial  Consultancy  
acted negligently  in transferring two of his existing pension  plans  into a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  This was used to invest in a Harlequin overseas property 
development.
background
Mr N was introduced to the prospect  of investing  in Harlequin by a third-party  introducer   
that introducer wasnt regulated by the Financial Services Authority  (FSA) - the regulator 
at that time. And so they approached Fairway  to help a number of clients,  including  Mr N, 
establish a SIPP to invest in Harlequin  properties using their pension  funds.
In a financial review  dated  6 July 2011,  Mr N was recorded as being 41 years old, single, 
with one dependent child and was employed, earning approximately  £37,500 pa. He was 
a member of his then employers pension scheme,  and in terms of assets and liabilities,  
he didnt own his home, had no savings or investments  but had an outstanding loan of
£12,000.
Other than his membership of his employers pension scheme,  his pension funds were split 
between two deferred defined benefit  schemes  and a personal pension plan (PPP). Mr N 
planned to retire at age 66, but also liked the idea of retiring early.
His attitude to investment  risk for the pension funds  he was interested  in transferring  into the 
SIPP was recorded  as 6 on a scale of 1 to 6  a highly speculative rating.
The application for a SIPP was completed and signed on the same  date - 6 July 2011. 
Fairway then submitted the SIPP application form to the SIPP provider on 5 September  
2011. Fairway was recorded as Mr Ns financial adviser and the agreed  fee for 
processing the transaction was £1,000 - £500  for the advisory process and £500 for 
facilitating the transfer.
On 19 September  2011, Fairway sent Mr N its suitability report. In that report, Fairway set 
out its position that Mr N should not transfer his pensions to the SIPP. It said that Mr N 
should retain his defined  pension scheme as the critical yield was too high to make such 
a transfer feasible. It was noted that Mr N was keen to retire early,  which  pushed  the 
critical yield required to match the scheme benefits higher still.
In that suitability report, the business  also said the following:
I understand, however,  that you will still want to proceed and we have provisions to take 
this forward on the basis of an Insistent Client, as these are your own funds and you are 
entitled to do what you wish with the pension, on the basis  that you have received advice 
in this respect.
Addressing the PPP benefits Mr N held with Prudential, Fairway said the following:
Ref: DRN900579017I must once again  recommend  that the transfer  to a highly speculative Self Invested 
Personal Pension Plan should only be considered for more  sophisticated  investors who 
understand the risks involved and are aware  you can totally  lose all of your pension  fund 
monies. As Prudential also offer highly speculative  funds,  I believe that you will be better 
off maintaining the pension with Prudential, if not only for the charges involved, but also 
as it would appear that you have not had experience  in higher risk investments in the 
past.
But again,  Fairway reiterated that the pension funds were Mr Ns to do with as he 
wished. And that it would be happy  to take this forward as an Insistent Client.
Fairway caveated its advisory process at this point by saying the following:
I must, at this stage, indicate that we can in no way give any advice with regard to the 
Harlequin Property Investment that you intend  to make,  as this is outside of our remit of 
advice and you would have to produce  your own due diligence  investigations into 
whether this investment is suitable for you and your pension.
Fairway has said that, with the suitability report,  it included an attitude to risk 
questionnaire, which  had been enhanced  since its initial completion on 6 July 2011. Mr 
N answered a series of questions relating  to his willingness to expose his pension funds 
to investment risk.
In the initial  section rerating to risk category 1, Mr N confirmed the following by 
inserting crosses next to the relevant  statements:
Losing any money  would significantly affect his financial security.
He didnt take risks and was very cautious.
He was likely to need  access  to his money in the short term.
Repayment  of debt was a priority for him.
He hadnt invested in the past and had no significant experience or understanding 
of investment markets.
In the next section  risk category 2 - which explored a willingness to lose some  money,  
Mr N indicated  agreement with all of these statements bar one - that repayment of debt 
was not a priority  for him.
In the section entitled risk category 3, Mr N as confirmed that his financial security  
would be affected  if he lost anything other than a small amount of money, that he was 
prepared to take a small  amount of risk and that his financial situation was such  that 
immediate access to his money wasnt essential.
The section for risk category 4 recorded Mr Ns financial security  as not being at risk if 
he lost some of his money and that he had some experience and understanding  of how 
investment markets worked.
Mr N confirmed agreement with just one statement in risk category 5, which  was that he 
had existing investments  and had a good  understanding of how investment markets 
worked.
And finally, in risk category 6, Mr N agreed  with all of the available statements, as follows:
Ref: DRN900579018He could afford to lose a large  proportion of money without his financial 
security being affected.
He was prepared to accept a very high degree  of risk.
His earning  capacity  was such that he could absorb risk.
He was prepared to invest  for the long term and didnt require access to his money 
in the medium  to long term.
He had existing investments and a very good  understanding of how 
investment markets  worked.
In a freehand section,  Mr N said that his existing PPP with Prudential and his deferred 
employee benefits could be considered high risk for a self-investment and that he 
accepted risk category 6 for these funds.
In supplementary  pages in the same document, which Fairway has said were included  
with the suitability report, Fairway noted that Mr N had concluded that his existing 
pension arrangements were no longer suitable to meet his objectives of investing in the 
Harlequin overseas  property development. But it also said that it needed to ensure that 
the proposed  investment was suitable for him. It added the following:
Also in view of (the) speculative nature of the investment, our starting  point must be that 
this is only suitable  for sophisticated investors who have experience in this area of 
investments, and are aware that they can lose all their funds invested.
We have not seen any evidence, including your existing pension  investments,  that you 
have taken a highly  speculative investment like the one that you now require. Details of 
your existing investments  do not all seem to bear out your appetite for higher risk 
investments and that you can afford  to lose all these savings.
Taking all that we have  seen into account,  we are not comfortable that you can 
understand the highly  speculative nature of the proposed Harlequin investment, and an 
investment of all your pensions in one speculative investment cannot be a good 
investment choice for you and your long term needs. On this basis Fairway does not 
recommend the Harlequin investment or the transfer of your pensions,  and that no SIPP 
is set up.
You have  however made it clear  that this is the investment that you want for your 
pension, and are prepared to take the risk that you can lose your pension  funds.
We are not totally sure you have fully understood this risk in its entirety, but you have 
made it clear  in your own words that you have,  and you have already complained about 
the time that this is taking to (the introducer), and that you do not want to lose this 
investment opportunity.
We must  therefore ensure that you have all the appropriate risk warnings, and that you 
know that our advice is not to proceed with this investment or to set up the SIPP  to 
facilitate the investment.
Fairway emphasised the risks involved in the proposed investment  notably that all of Mr 
Ns pension funds could  be lost - and urged extreme caution  with regard to the projected 
investment returns.  It said there was no risk diversification in the Harlequin investment 
and it recommended employing  an independent agent to verify the progress and 
development of the overseas property. It further suggested  that Mr N employ a legal 
Ref: DRN900579019specialist to ensure  that his pension funds would be used to complete the property he was 
buying.
Fairway expressed scepticism regarding the assurance that investors funds could be 
repaid when needed  its view was that this was rarely the case with direct property 
investment due to issues with liquidity.
Taking all of the above into account, Fairway concluded that this type of investment 
would only be suitable for sophisticated investors who understood the risks involved. 
With specific regard to its assessment of Mr N, it said the following:
As mentioned we do not believe  that you fall into the category of a sophisticated investor,  
and therefore  do not recommend that the proposed investment is suitable, and neither is 
the SIPP vehicle  to set this up.
Fairway noted Mr Ns responses  relating to his willingness and capacity to take a high 
level of risk, but it said that none of the statements attesting to this matched what  it had 
seen or understood to be his set of circumstances  so it asked him to think  very 
carefully about the answers hed given.  It said:
Your answers to the questions on the Risk questionnaire show  that you do not want  to 
lose any money on the one hand, but for the pensions that you have asked us to review 
that you are prepared to accept this very high risk investment approach,  which is not 
borne out by previous  investment decisions that you have made  as far as we can see.
With particular regard  to the contradictions in the risk-related answers hed given, 
Fairway suggested that these were indicative of a more balanced attitude to risk  
which was consistent  with his existing pension  plans. It said the following:
If your existing investments were held in similar investments to the Harlequin 
proposition, and if you were considering a smaller investment into their plan, then this 
investment could be considered. Unfortunately, this is not the case,  and a 
recommendation to transfer cannot  be made.
Fairway summarised its appraisal of the situation  as follows:
To reiterate all that has been said, we therefore  recommend that you do not proceed with 
this investment and do not set up the SIPP to receive the transfers  from your existing  
pensions. You have been fully appraised (sic) of the full facts  of the Harlequin investment 
and you have confirmed  that (you) are prepared to accept the potential risks involved 
despite our recommendation that you still want to proceed.
But Fairway acknowledged that Mr N had been  introduced to the investment proposition 
by a third party  and that he would still wish to proceed.  It addressed  this as follows:
However, it is clear  that as you have been  introduced, on the basis that you require to 
invest your pensions in this plan, and that as we are not prepared  to proceed on an 
execution only basis, i.e. where we provide no advice and just set up the plan for the 
investment that you require, then advice must be given  and as far as we can ascertain 
understood. If you still wish to proceed, we will process your investment as an insistent  
client and arrange  to set up the SIPP and transfer in your pensions, it must be understood 
that by doing this you are acting against  our advice.
Ref: DRN900579020Fairway confirmed that Mr N wished to proceed on this basis, but if he changed  his mind, 
to let it know.
According to Mr N, the introducer  agreed  to give him £4,500  from his commission if he 
committed to the Harlequin investment - this was categorised as a business 
development loan.  If he was able to introduce others  to the Harlequin investment, he 
was also offered 10% of the investment value.  Mr N has confirmed that he hasnt 
repaid the business development loan and didnt introduce anyone else.
The transfers from the two separate schemes  completed on 2 and 4 November 2011. A 
letter from the administration  manager at Harlequin  Property dated  12 July 2011  
indicated that Mr N had already reserved his development unit and it asked that 
payment of the £1,000  reservation fee be made within seven  days  of the reservation. 
No contracts would be issued until the fee was received.
But according to a subsequent letter dated  8 November 2011, payment wasnt  received 
until that date.  It seems that the £1,000 reservation fee as taken from the transferred 
pension funds, and the remaining pension funds, amounting to approximately £33,000,  
were invested into Harlequin.
Unfortunately, the property development ran into difficulties and my understanding  is 
that much  of Mr Ns pension funds have  been  lost.
The complaint
Mr Ns representative submitted the following  key points  of complaint:
Although it was acknowledged that Mr N had been introduced to the Harlequin 
investment by a third party,  he wasnt tied into that investment  at the point of 
being referred to Fairway.  The £1,000 reservation fee hadnt been paid.
It believed there was some kind of relationship between the introducer and 
Fairway  hence  the referral to facilitate the transfers.
The entire arrangement,  including the SIPP application, was started on 6 July 
2011, which it had assumed had taken place at Fairways office. But the 
representative had since learned  that the whole process was undertaken remotely 
by post, which it interpreted as evidence that the referral  had simply been  a rubber 
stamp of the introducers  investment proposal.
Fairway had a duty to ensure that the underlying  investment in the SIPP was 
suitable for him, and it failed in this regard.
The attitude to risk questionnaire  Mr N had was dated 6 July 2011 and didnt 
have the additional pages (which contained the advice not to proceed) which  
were added later. Mr N denied ever seeing the enhanced version referred to by 
Fairway, which also had the second  date of 19 September 2011 added.
The SIPP application was dated 6 July 2011  and so there  couldnt  have 
been reflection  and research on the suitability of the transfers.  The 
transactions just needed to be processed.
The main driver was clearly the £4,500 which  would be paid to Mr N  although Mr 
N thought he may have actually received around  £2,000 of this. It was accepted 
that Mr N was chasing the parties  involved to process the transaction quickly.  But 
Fairway should have  stopped the transaction from happening.
Ref: DRN900579021The representative didnt dispute that Mr N signed the suitability report, although 
it wasnt known where he was or who he was with when this happened. 
Although again, the representative  said that the content of the letter  was largely  
irrelevant as the payment Mr N was going  to receive was the driver behind the 
transaction.
No one ever told Mr N that the proposal was anything other than a good idea. 
But it was up to Fairway to stop him from doing  it, rather  than collecting 
commission for doing the opposite.
As endorsed in other decisions issued by this service, disclaimers  and risk 
warnings didnt  necessarily render otherwise inappropriate  investments suitable. 
But the representative said that those  risk warning were in any case inadequate.
The record  of Mr N wanting to personally  control his pension funds was 
unrealistic  nothing  about his circumstances  was consistent  with this. Rather,  he 
needed the protections and guarantees afforded by a defined benefit  
occupational pension scheme.
The critical  yields  quoted in the suitability report were predicated upon transfers 
into mainstream investments, rather than the Harlequin property development.
As the report was fee based, the representative queried why the advice 
wasnt simply to leave  the pension funds where  they were.
The transferred funds were only enough to cover 30% of the purchase price  and 
Mr N had no way of funding the remainder. This added  to the unsuitability of the 
arrangement, which  should  have been  obvious to Fairway.
The representative acknowledged  that in some  instances of poor advice 
or negligence, the conclusion had been  drawn  that what  happened would 
have happened  anyway, irrespective of the advice given.
But he didnt think this applied here. The process hadnt begun before  Fairway 
became involved  and its involvement was the means by which the transaction 
occurred. And without Fairways involvement, Mr N would still have his pension 
funds intact.
Fairways response to Mr Ns complaint
Fairway didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint, saying that it had recommended  that he not make  
the transfer and invest  in Harlequin  also noting  that he did so anyway on an insistent 
client basis.
Mr Ns representative referred the complaint to this service. And in its submission to 
us, Fairway set out what  it considered to be several  key aspects in response to the 
complaint that had been made, as follows:
It didnt sell or promote the product to Mr N in any way.
It would appear that Mr Ns reservation  deposit  was paid at the time of the 
transfer to the SIPP   it was unclear as to whether Mr N was already 
committed to paying  this when he was initially referred to Fairway. But it 
wasnt in any case aware at the time that deposits were being  paid.
There was no relationship between Fairway and the introducer - and no 
financial remuneration  (other  than the fee charged to Mr N) was gained from 
it.
The process  to establish the SIPP  had already been started when Mr N met 
with Fairway  but this hadnt  been  on its advice.
Ref: DRN900579022Mr Ns signature on the suitability report demonstrated that hed received the 
relevant documents. It was noted in particular that Mr N had said he hadnt 
received the additional comments attached  to the risk questionnaire, but hed 
signed Fairways letter dated 19 September  2011  which said that this had been  
included.
It conducted a thorough suitability  assessment   it didnt just process 
instructions submitted  by the introducer.
It was unaware of the financial  incentive  paid to Mr N or the introducer 
agreement which Mr N had entered  into with Harlequin.
Mr N would have proceeded with the proposition, irrespective of any advice given 
by Fairway. This was demonstrated by him chasing the progress of the 
transaction (and making a complaint  about  this).  And Mr Ns determination had 
also been acknowledged by his representative,  whod  said that the incentive was 
the driver  behind  it.
It had been asserted  that Fairway shouldnt have transacted the business, but its 
regulatory obligations when it was recommending an opposite  course of action 
were to make the client aware of this and clearly set out the reasons why. It was 
then up to the client whether they wished  to proceed on an insistent client  basis.
They  didnt meet with Mr N at any point during the process. No pressure was 
placed upon him and he was given all the time he needed to consider the 
documents sent to him.
Our investigators assessment
As part of her investigation, our investigator had a telephone conversation with Mr N. Mr 
N told her the following:
At the time, he had four pensions, but only wanted to transfer two of those.
He had a gambling problem, and wanted  access to extra cash. Hed previously 
tried to liberate his pensions but had been unsuccessful. He then met with the 
Harlequin introducer  and was told that the investment  would earn a return  after 
two years.
The introducer told him to invest in the Harlequin  property development, with 
assurances of the income hed receive  in the future.  This appealed to Mr N and 
he thought it sounded  like a good  investment.
The introducer said that hed give him £4,500 of his commission, which  would 
be called  a business development loan. He would also be paid 10% of any 
other investment  introductions he made to Harlequin. But he hadnt  repaid the 
loan, nor had he introduced anyone else.
Mr N signed various documents  on 6 July 2011, but didnt have any direct  
contact with Fairway.  He discussed  anything  it sent him with the introducer. But 
he thought the documents submitted by Fairway werent the same  as the ones 
which had been sent to him and he suspected that Fairway had changed some 
of the dates.
The introducer reassured  him that it was a win-win investment scenario  - the 
main driver for him being the £4,500 payment.
But Mr N said that he wouldn't have done  it if he was told not to. He would have 
kept his pensions where they were. He felt that Fairway shouldn't have  allowed 
him to do it, especially as he was a cautious investor  and would  only have been 
prepared to take a small amount of risk.
Ref: DRN900579023Following her investigation, the investigator wrote to Fairway explaining why she thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. She said the following in summary:
The process  of transferring to a SIPP had started in July 2011, before the 
advice given by Fairway. The former  shouldnt  have  preceded the latter.
The advice process needed to take into account  the underlying investment  
and Fairway was aware that the SIPP funds would be invested  in Harlequin.
Mr Ns attitude to risk was assessed  as being highly speculative, but the 
available evidence  didnt  support this  nor was there evidence to suggest that 
Mr N had held speculative investments before.
Regulations required Fairway to gather enough information to demonstrate 
that it knew its client and that any subsequent advice was suitable  for them.
There was also guidance relating to insistent client classifications,  in that the 
advice had to be suitable and it should be made  clear that they are acting against  
that advice.
It was acknowledged that this guidance was issued after the event complained  of, 
but the investigator nevertheless felt this reflected the expected  standards at the 
time.
But the investigator was in any case not persuaded that Mr N understood the risks 
of what he was doing.
The investment was unregulated and Mr N could lose all of his investment. 
There was also no analysis or explanation as to how the remaining 70% of the 
investment would be funded.
The SIPP application was submitted to the SIPP provider on 5 September 2011 - 
14 days before the advice  was formally  conveyed  to Mr N. The SIPP was 
therefore set up before  Mr N had been given any warnings or advice that he 
shouldnt be transferring his pensions or investing  in Harlequin.
There were also no written instructions from Mr N that he wished to act against  
the advice  and so it shouldnt have been transacted  on an insistent client 
basis.
Mr N should have been  given the opportunity to consider the advice before the 
SIPP application form was submitted.
Taking  into account all the of circumstances,  Fairway should  not have transacted  
the business
Fairway disagreed, however. Its reasons can be summarised as follows:
Fairway didnt  introduce Mr N to Harlequin and the referral to it by the introducer 
wasnt made with an advisory process  in mind.  It was expected  to set up the 
SIPP with the documentation which had been  submitted. But Fairway knew  that it 
needed to advise on both the SIPP and the underlying investment.
The enhanced risk questionnaire, which  detailed  Fairways reasons why Mr N 
shouldnt proceed with the Harlequin investment, was enclosed  with the suitability 
report of 19 September 2011. Mr N signed this to confirm he wished to proceed 
with the transfers  and the investment.
It wasnt  aware  at the time that Mr N had previously tried to liberate his pension  
funds
 but the fact that this was the case constituted further evidence  that Mr N 
was determined to access additional  cash.
Mr N was always  able to contact Fairway,  either  face to face or by telephone, and 
it felt that the advice  to not proceed with the SIPP  or the Harlequin investment 
Ref: DRN900579024ought to have prompted him to do so. That he didnt was indicative of him viewing 
the Harlequin introducer as his adviser,  and that he was keen to access  the 
promised
£4,500 in return for his investment.
As to Mr Ns, and the investigators,  assertion that Fairway  shouldnt have 
transacted the business, Fairway referred  to the FCA Handbook - specifically 
COBS 10.3. This set out what an adviser  needed to do where a client  wished  to 
proceed against advice. And Fairway considered  that it had adhered to those 
requirements in making Mr N aware  of the very high risk involved.
There was no adverse publicity relating to Harlequin at the time and so 
Fairway couldnt have known that Mr N would lose his pension  funds.
Mr N had also complained about  what he considered to be the delays in the 
process, which Fairway believed further  demonstrated that he was very keen to 
proceed.
It agreed that it seemed the £1,000 reservation fee had been deferred until it could 
be paid from the pension funds. But it still thought that Mr N would nevertheless  
have been liable for this even if he hadnt  proceeded.
Although the process to set up the SIPP had started before the suitability  report  
was issued, this could have been  cancelled within  the cooling off period  and the 
transfers didnt  in fact complete until early November 2011. So there was plenty 
of time for Mr N to withdraw from the process.
The guidance referred to by the investigator  about insistent  clients  wasnt  
published for several years after the time in question.  But Fairway nevertheless 
considered that it adhered to that guidance  it advised Mr N not to proceed, but 
he chose to do so anyway.
Fairway had no way of knowing that the property development was an 
unregulated collective investment scheme in 2011.
It had no knowledge of the £4,500 incentive which  was to be paid to Mr N  this 
indicated that the investment proposal was high risk and, had it been aware of 
this, it would have  refused  to transact  the business.
The suitability report and enhanced risk questionnaire clearly set out the risks of 
the proposal  and these were sent to Mr N well in advance of the transfers 
actually completing  in November 2011.
In summary,  Fairway  maintained that its advice was suitable. It said that had it known 
about the undisclosed factors   the prior attempt at liberation, the gambling problem and 
the £4,500 incentive  payment,  it wouldnt  have transacted the business. As it was, 
however, it acted in good faith and adhered  to FSA regulations.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for 
review. I note that Fairway also asked for a hearing,  but following the investigators 
response that these  werent usually necessary, but nevertheless asking it for its reasons 
for the request, Fairway  hasnt responded further  on that issue.
Having reviewed the available information, Im confident that theres sufficient 
documentary evidence  for me to be able to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion  on 
this case. And Ill now set out my findings  accordingly.
Ref: DRN900579025my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im required by the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP to determine the complaint by reference  to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the complaint. When 
considering whats  fair and reasonable, I need  to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable  rules,  regulations and requirements
When advising upon a SIPP,  a financial business  needs to also consider the underlying 
investment to be used   so the suitability  of the overall transaction.  Chapter  9 of COBS  
within the regulators handbook deals with the requirements on a business making a 
personal recommendation in relation to a designated  investment. At this point, I should 
say that Im satisfied that the advisory process  which took place here fulfilled  the criteria 
of a personal recommendation. At the time of the advice, a personal  recommendation was 
described in the FSA handbook as being:
a recommendation that is advice on investments and is presented as suitable  for 
the person to whom it is made, or is based  on a consideration of the circumstances 
of that person.
This advice  was based on an assessment  of Mr Ns circumstances and objectives, and 
the wording of the suitability report repeatedly referred to the recommendation which was 
being made. The recommendation didnt need  to be for a client  to undertake a transfer, 
switch or investment   it could be to not proceed. So Im satisfied that this was a 
recommendation, presented as suitable for Mr N, and which  had been  based on a 
consideration of his circumstances   in other words, a personal recommendation. As 
such, the provisions  of COBS 9 relating to personal recommendations on the basis  of 
suitability apply here, rather than COBS 10, which deals with assessments of 
appropriateness.
Ive also noted  Fairways  assertion that, at the point of advising  Mr N, the Harlequin 
property investment hadnt been  identified as a UCIS, but this is immaterial to our ability  
to consider the suitability of the advice if the ceding investments and/or the receiving 
SIPP investment  were designated investments.
This is also not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which  applied, but 
provides useful context  for my assessment of the business actions here.
COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly,  fairly and professionally  in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  And in order to ensure this was the case,  and in line 
with the requirements  COBS 9.2.2R, Fairway needed  to gather the necessary information 
for it to be confident  that its advice met Mr Ns objectives. It also needed to ensure that Mr 
N had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks he was taking. 
Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory  business  
to undertake a fact find process.
In this case, Mr N was referred to Fairway by a third-party introducer, which had already 
carried out the fact-finding process and submitted these details as part of the referral. Ill 
Ref: DRN900579026comment further on what I consider to be the risks involved on relying upon such  a 
process later in this decision, but where  such a situation exists, COBS 2.4.6R says that 
Fairway would be compliant with the rules  in terms of information gathering so long as it 
could show it was reasonable for it to rely on the information provided to it in writing by 
another person .
This is caveated though by COBS  2.4.7E, which  indicates that an assessment should  
be undertaken as to whether that third party is competent  to gather and provide the 
required information. COBS 2.4.8G further  indicates  that it would be reasonable for an 
advising firm to rely on information if it was provided  by an unconnected  authorised  
person or a professional firm.
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a business to explain why 
the firm has concluded  that the recommended transaction is suitable for the client   in 
other words, it needed to provide its client  with a suitability report  outlining its advice 
and the reasons for it.
Of additional relevance to this case  is the insistent  client categorisation attributed to Mr 
N by Fairway. As noted by Fairway, whilst there  now exists  specific  guidance on this 
issue, there was no rule within COBS at the time relating to this. For the reasons set out 
above, my view is that COBS 9  relating to personal recommendations  applies here. 
But its useful to note the provisions of COBS 10.3.3, which related to non-advised sales 
in situations where  a business had told a client that a product or service it had asked 
them to undertake was inappropriate for them. And specifically that, having regard to the 
circumstances, if a business deemed it to be inappropriate, it had the choice not to 
facilitate that service.
Also, to accommodate  insistent client type situations in the case  of opt outs and 
transfers from defined  benefit pension schemes,  COBS 5.3.25R existed in an earlier  
iteration of the handbook  which required a business  to make and retain a clear  record 
of its advice not to proceed and its clients instructions to nevertheless go ahead.  It 
needed to then issue a further  confirmation and explanation, in writingthat the firms 
advice is that the (client) should not proceed. It was also considered  good  practice  for 
the business to obtain  instructions  to proceed  in the clients own hand  - this would 
constitute more  compelling evidence of their insistence to go ahead.
Did Fairway adhere to its obligations?
As Ive said above,  the starting point  for Fairways involvement in this process was the 
referral from the third-party introducer. This introducer wasnt regulated and so was 
unable to facilitate  the proposed transaction on Mr Ns behalf, which  involved transfers 
into the SIPP from both a PPP and a defined  benefit  pension  scheme.
Its unclear as to how and why Fairway was chosen  as the financial  business by the 
introducer. Mr Ns representative  has suggested a relationship existed  between  the two, 
with the implication being that there was a financial benefit to Fairway beyond  that 
received from the fee charged to Mr N. The available evidence doesnt support that 
position, but I dont think  its in any case relevant to the outcome of this case. Irrespective 
of the manner of the referral, Fairway still needed  to adhere to its regulatory  requirements 
as set out above.
Ref: DRN900579027Mr N was assessed as having a highly  speculative attitude to risk  this was borne of the 
answers given in the attitude to risk questionnaire  and apparently Mr Ns own assertion 
that he wished  to take this position with his existing pension arrangements.  But to say that 
the document in question presented a confusing picture would be an understatement. Mr 
N was confirming that he was a very cautious  investor with no investment experience or 
knowledge, who couldnt afford  to take any risks with his money, whilst simultaneously 
attributing to himself  the very highest  attitude  to risk and a very good understanding  - and 
experience - of investment risk.
Such a document which contains  so many obvious  inconsistencies and contradictions 
shouldnt have been relied  upon  to determine Mr Ns actual attitude towards, and capacity  
to take, investment risk. This would fail the most  basic test of knowing your client.  These 
inconsistencies were  noted by Fairway,  but it was nevertheless willing  to accept that Mr N 
wished to expose his pension funds  to the highest  level of investment  risk, albeit with 
caveats.
These were  contained in the suitability report produced on 19 September  2011  and the 
risk questionnaire initially completed  on 6 July 2011 - and then enhanced by 19 
September 2011 for, according to Fairway, inclusion with the suitability report.
Ill firstly  deal here with my concerns relating  to the enhanced risk questionnaire.  Mr Ns 
representative has said that Mr N didnt receive this  and only had the original  version. 
And I think this is entirely plausible. To explain why, there are several anomalies which 
should be brought to light. Fairway  has said that it referred to the attitude to risk 
questionnaire in the suitability report, which Mr N signed to attest  to its veracity.  Fairways 
position is therefore that he must have seen  the enhanced version. But this doesnt 
follow at all. The reference is simply to the risk questionnaire  no mention is made of its 
enhanced nature since  it was first completed some  two months previously. I find this 
odd, given that the enhancement in fact constituted the mainstay of Fairways  reasoning  
as to why Mr N shouldnt  go ahead with the proposed Harlequin investment.
I would also question as to why, having decided that it would comment in some detail on 
the Harlequin investment and its suitability for Mr N in the enhanced risk questionnaire, the 
suitability report - which, to reiterate, Fairway has said was sent at the same  time - 
contained the following paragraph:
I must, at this stage, indicate that we can in no way give any advice with regard to the 
Harlequin Property Investment that you intend  to make,  as this is outside of our remit of 
advice and you would have to produce  your own due diligence  investigations into 
whether this investment is suitable for you and your pension.
It simply makes  no sense  for Fairway to have included  this when it was quite prepared  
to comment on it in the accompanying document.
But even if Fairway is able to produce a credible explanation  for this, I would question as 
to why the commentary added to the risk questionnaire wasnt  simply included  in the 
suitability report.  It would be by far the more  obvious place for it to appear   in a 
document which would bear Mr Ns signature  to confirm hed received and read it.
These quite concerning facts relating to the enhanced  risk questionnaire really  do in my 
view call into question  whether that version of it accompanied the suitability report at all. 
The weight of evidence  here makes me think its more likely than not that the additional  
Ref: DRN900579028commentary was appended  after the suitability report was issued  and quite possibly 
after the transfers and investment had completed.
And this has clear ramifications for the corresponding weight I can give to the content of 
that enhanced risk questionnaire. As Ive said above, this contained  a detailed 
recommendation not to proceed. But if Mr N didnt receive this, and was guided by the 
content of the suitability  report alone, I must consider what that would  have meant to Mr N 
 and whether  it would ultimately have made a difference  to the action he took.
So Ive considered the suitability report in detail. It had two parts, that relating  to the 
defined benefit  transfer and that relating to the PPP. One of the aspects  of pension 
planning which was deemed to be important  to Mr N was to be able to personally control 
his pension fund.  I tend to agree with Mr Ns representative, however. Theres  simply 
nothing about  Mr Ns circumstances or prior investment experience  which would be 
consistent with this  and Fairway should  have challenged it. I dont entirely rule out the 
possibility that he had the time and volition to control and manage his investments - if not 
necessarily the experience and understanding to do so effectively - but the prospect 
seems to me to be quite  remote. And in any case,  I cant see that investment  in a single 
bricks and mortar overseas asset  which might well have  future  liquidity problems would 
afford him that personal  control which hes said to have sought.
With regard to the proposed transfer  from the defined benefit  scheme,  Fairway  said that 
Mr N should retain this as the critical yield was too high to make such  a transfer feasible. 
It was also noted  that Mr N wanted to retire early, which  pushed  the critical yield required 
to match  the scheme  benefits higher still. Alternatives were set out, one of which  was to 
leave the pension funds where  they were.  Fairway  recommended  this, saying that it is 
difficult to find a reason  to agree  with your request to transfer on a recommended  basis.
I agree  with Fairway that this was the right recommendation for Mr N, given 
his circumstances  and objectives.
But Fairway nevertheless  acknowledged that Mr N would still want to proceed, and so it 
said it had provisions for Mr N to do so on an insistent client basis  (which  Ill address in 
the next section). It also said that the flexibility of investment which  Mr N was recorded as 
seeking wasnt available from his defined benefit  scheme and that he wanted the 
possibility of enhanced growth. Fairway  did point  out, however,  that growth rates,  and so 
any prospect of early  retirement, couldnt  be guaranteed.
Turning to the PPP, the suitability report said that transferring this to a highly 
speculative SIPP investment should  only  be considered for more sophisticated 
investors who understand the risks involved  and are aware you can totally  lose all of 
your pension fund monies.
Fairway said that, as the PPP provider also offered higher risk funds, Mr N would be 
better off keeping it where it was, not only because  of the higher charges which would 
apply in the new plan, but because Mr N had no prior experience  in higher risk 
investments. But again,  Fairway said that it would  be prepared to make  the transfer  on 
an insistent client basis.
Its fair to say that the recommendations  were  for Mr N not to proceed with the 
transfers  which I consider to have been suitable  advice. But my overall  view of the 
suitability report was that it lacked the impact of the enhanced risk questionnaire  
Ref: DRN900579029notably because  it completely omitted  any analysis of the proposed investment itself 
and its suitability or otherwise for Mr N. I also think that the accompanying commentary 
relating to him being able to do as he wished with his pension  funds would  have diluted  
the sentiment  not to proceed.
Ive also noted  that the suitability report was produced two weeks  after the SIPP 
application was submitted.  I acknowledge that theres  no requirement as to the timing of 
issuing a suitability report, and often  an investment  may have been  initiated before, or at 
the same time,  as the suitability  report  was produced.  But this would usually  be in 
situations where the advice was to proceed and the client  had agreed with that advice.
This is a different set of circumstances. The advice  was not to proceed, with Mr N 
having been categorised  as an insistent client who was acting against that advice. And 
I think the submission of the application before the suitability report was issued  might  
justifiably have conveyed  the impression to Mr N that the report  was a standard  and 
necessary part of the process  a box which needed to be ticked, rather  than 
information to be given serious thought before the application proceeded.
I also have concerns about  the acknowledgement in the suitability report that the 
transfers would proceed  on an insistent client basis if Mr N signed  at the end  rather  
than asking him to put into his own words why he wished  to do so. And given  the 
circumstances here,  I think it would have been a very valuable exercise  and may well 
have brought  to light the cash amount he was being  paid.  Fairway mentioned  that Mr N 
had articulated his reasons in his own words,  but I can find no documented record of this. 
And given  the lack of contact between the two parties other than by post, I struggle to see 
what other format this might have  taken.
So overall, I dont  think the suitability report by itself was sufficient as a recommendation 
not to proceed. The enhanced  risk questionnaire would have been a more compelling 
document if Mr N had received it  but for the reasons set out above, I have considerable 
doubts as to whether this was the case.
What should Fairway  have done?
By its own admission,  Fairway concluded  that Mr N didnt understand what  he was doing.  
But it nevertheless categorised  him as an insistent  client and was prepared  to go ahead 
on that basis. Even if I am to accept that Mr N was very keen to proceed with the 
investment, which  would certainly make him determined, it seems to me an unlikely, if 
not impossible, conclusion to reach from a regulatory perspective that Mr N could 
reasonably be categorised as an insistent client if he didnt  understand what  he was 
doing.
But even if Im wrong on that  and I accept that specific  guidance  relating to insistent 
clients wasnt formalised until several years later - this would still fail the most 
fundamental test of acting in a clients best interests.  And its important to note that this 
requirement of acting in a clients best interests applied  regardless of whether Fairway 
considers it was acting  under the requirements  of COBS 9 or COBS 10. Taking  account  of 
Mr Ns lack of understanding, his contradictory  responses relating to risk attitude, his lack 
of any investment experience and incapacity  to sustain any loss, in addition  to the opaque 
and high risk nature  of the investment itself,  this is, in my view, where Fairways 
involvement in the process should  have  come to an end. This is true irrespective of 
whether the enhanced risk questionnaire  was actually provided to Mr N or not.
Ref: DRN900579030And whilst I dont strictly need to  as even in isolation my view is that Fairway shouldnt 
have facilitated  Mr Ns proposal - to add context here, Fairway has provided  details  of 
another case involving Harlequin  investment where it declined to advise or proceed with 
the transfer and SIPP  application.  My understanding is that it involved opting out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme and then transferring the accrued benefits   and as the 
client was still a member of the OPS, it felt it wouldnt be able to assess the value of the 
benefits to be relinquished. Whilst the circumstances may be different,  its nevertheless  
indicative of Fairways preparedness  to not advise  or transact business if it felt doing so 
would be contrary to the clients best interests.
In its defence of this particular point, I note that Fairway has cited its regulatory  obligations  
to process business  if a client insists, so long as appropriate risk warnings are given. But 
this is of course not the case.  Fairway  didnt  have to transact the business,  and as Ive 
said above, declined  to do so for at least one other individual.
Would this have made a difference  to the outcome?
Ive concluded  that, given  everything Fairway knew about Mr N (even  excluding  the 
gambling problem,  the incentive payment and the attempts at pension  liberation, of 
which I accept Fairway was unaware), it shouldnt have agreed  to process the transfers.
And having declined to do so, it would have been  up to it as to whether it charged  an 
advice fee, depending upon how much  work  it considered  it had put into the matter.
But Im not persuaded that this would have prevented Mr N from proceeding. Ill explain 
why.
In a section of the complaint letter entitled  The bung, Mr Ns representative  said 
the following:
Quite obviously this was the initial driver.  The bung was dressed up as a business 
development loan. Look at Mr Ns circumstances  what  part of £4,500 wouldnt have 
been attractive to him?  In the event he thinks he may have received about £2,000.
Mr N lived from week to week if not day to day with regard to monies. This was a lottery  
win to him. (The introducer) was selling him the Caribbean dream plus there  was 
£4,500 in to boot. As that advert on the telly says why wouldnt you? It is not denied  that 
Mr N would have been chasing (the introducer) for the money.  It would make no sense if 
he wasnt two months  later.
The reason  why you wouldnt would be because an authorised and regulated firm, 
having been  appointed to give advice, now apparently on a fee basis, both could and 
should have stopped it happening.
So Mr Ns representative has argued  that Fairway should have stopped  Mr N doing it. 
But this is a different  argument to saying that Fairway shouldnt have processed the 
transfers into the SIPP. My view is that Fairway  could and should have declined  to 
transact the business,  but I dont think this would have stopped Mr N from proceeding.
Mr N had gambling problems, had an outstanding loan, no liquid assets  to speak of and 
very little disposable income. Hed (albeit  unsuccessfully) tried to access his pension  
Ref: DRN900579031funds through  liberation  to access cash and by his own admission was keen to receive 
the cash incentive promised by the introducer. Given  that set of circumstances, I can 
readily, and with no judgement on my part, understand why.
As confirmed above, Mr N had also been  chasing the progress of the transfers  and even 
complained that it was taking too long.  This further demonstrates, in my view, his 
commitment to completing the transaction. And as further evidence of Mr Ns 
determination, I note his representative said with regard  to the suitability report  that:
In any event this letter could have told him he was going to die if he signed it. It 
wouldnt have  made any difference at all. The bung  was the driver.
My understanding is that there were SIPP providers  who would accept this type of 
business on an execution  only basis  so without the involvement of a regulated 
business - and who themselves accepted Harlequin  investments.
Had Mr N been acting  alone, a situation which would  in all likelihood in any case not 
have made  him aware of Harlequin or presented the possibility of the cash incentive, Im 
not certain that he would  have sought  other  opportunities  to complete the transfers  and 
reinvestment. But Mr N wasnt acting alone, and had the service of a resourceful 
introducer at his disposal. I say resourceful having noted the methods employed by that 
introducer to bring  people  on board and the clear commitment he had to investing  them  
in Harlequin  demonstrated best perhaps  by the cash payments he was prepared  to 
offer.
It happens to be the case  here that Fairway agreed  to process the transfers into the SIPP. 
But if it had declined, as I consider it should,  I think its more likely  than not that the 
introducer would have found  a different  way of achieving the same goal without the 
services of Fairway. And this could have been done  by an execution  only transfer, even of 
the defined benefits, to a different SIPP provider.
Im therefore  satisfied that Mr N could,  and would, have still proceeded with the transfers 
and subsequent investment.
Summary
That the business has demonstrated significant failings here is not, in my view, in doubt.  
As Ive said,  I have doubts relating  to the provision  of the enhanced questionnaire to Mr 
N and the fact finding with regard to his attitude  to risk could scarcely have been more 
confusing. Fairway also confirmed its view that Mr N didnt understand what he was 
doing. Nevertheless, Fairway was prepared to accept Mr N as an insistent client and 
process the transaction, when all other circumstances  should have made  it obvious  that 
doing so was entirely contrary to his best interests.
That said,  I cannot ignore Mr Ns demonstrable determination to access additional cash, 
which would have been achieved by completing  the transfers and reinvestment in 
Harlequin  and on a fair and reasonable analysis of the facts  of this case,  my view is 
that he would have proceeded anyway, even without  the involvement  of Fairway.
Ref: DRN900579032What does Fairway need to do?
For the reasons  given,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Fairway liable for 
the loss of Mr Ns pension funds. I think this would  have happened anyway. But Fairway 
charged Mr N £1,000 to transact the business  and my understanding  is that this was paid 
from his transferred pension funds.  £500 was in respect of the advisory  process and the 
remainder was charged to set up the SIPP. As my conclusion here is that Fairway should 
not have facilitated the transfers,  I think this should  be refunded to Mr N in its entirety.
Fairway might argue that if it had declined to transact the business,  this would have been 
only after it had undertaken its financial assessment, which would  have incurred a cost. I 
think its doubtful  that it would  have  charged Mr N for this or that Mr N would  in any case  
have been in a position to pay it without the transfers completing   however, if it can 
provide evidence that it successfully charged  other individuals  where it declined  to 
transact the business,  I may revise  that view.
That fee would otherwise  have remained in Mr Ns pension  fund, albeit  for the reasons 
given, still in a SIPP. On the basis that the purchase  price  (and corresponding  deposit)  for 
the Harlequin investment would have remained the same, that additional £1,000  would 
have likely remained in cash.
Fairway should therefore calculate what that £1,000  would now be worth with the addition  
of compound interest at base rate, from the date of payment  to Fairway to the date of 
settlement. It should then increase Mr Ns SIPP by that amount, taking  into account the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would 
be tax- free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  the complaint in part. And Im currently  minded to 
direct Fairway Financial  consultancy  to compensate Mr N as set out above.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9005790