K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund  three  cash  machine withdrawals she 
says she neither made nor authorised. 
background
Miss Ns Lloyds debit card was used  to make three cash machine withdrawals totalling £440  
over a period  of about five minutes.  In the same period the card was used at the cash 
machine to transfer £450 from Miss Ns ISA (also with Lloyds) to her current  account   in 
effect funding  the withdrawals. 
The banks records show that Miss N contacted it later the same day to report her card 
missing. Miss N says she did so before the disputed withdrawals, and that shed last used 
her card about six hours  before those withdrawals.
Lloyds looked  into the disputed withdrawals,  but wasnt persuaded that Miss N hadnt  made  
them or authorised  them.  It refused to provide a refund, and Miss N referred  the case  to this 
service. 
One of our investigators  considered what had happened but didnt recommend that Lloyds 
make any refund. She thought it likely  that the cash machine  withdrawals and the transfers 
had been authorised by Miss N.
Miss N didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  
them.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have, however, reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.  
First of all, Im satisfied that the genuine  card was used with the correct PIN when  the 
transfers and withdrawals took place. The banks records show that the chip embedded in 
the card was read  making the use of a cloned  card most unlikely. They  also show the PIN 
was entered correctly, which  is what Id expect where a UK cash  machine is used. So I need 
to consider how someone other  than Miss N could have obtained both her card and her PIN. 
Miss N used her card to make two purchases  about six hours before the disputed  
transactions. One payment was contactless; the other was verified  with Miss Ns PIN. They  
were made in the same area as the disputed  cash machine transactions, at around 4:30am.
I think it unlikely, however, that someone  observed  Miss N using her PIN and then took her 
card. She doesnt recall  anything  like that happening. I think its unlikely too that someone  
who managed  to take a card and deliberately observed the PIN would  have waited six hours 
before trying  to use it. 
Its also unlikely that someone who found the card would be able to guess the PIN. The PIN 
isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card itself. And Miss N has said she didnt tell anyone 
else what her PIN was and hadnt written it down. 
Ref: DRN91566952The most likely explanation for the disputed card use is, in my view,  that  contrary to what 
shes told the bank  and this service  Miss N made the transactions  herself. If thats correct, 
it makes no difference  whether Miss N contacted  Lloyds before or after they took place. 
However, for the sake  of completeness, I note that the banks records indicate that the final 
cash machine withdrawal took place at 10:15am and that Miss N contacted Lloyds at 
10:24am. I think the banks records on this are more  likely to be accurate than Miss Ns 
recollection. 
I will add too that Miss N says that someone  contacted her on social  media some time later 
to say theyd found  her card near where it was used.  That would suggest that whoever used 
it then abandoned it without trying to use it again. I also think  it unlikely that someone finding 
the card would try to find its owner  in that way; theyd be more  likely to hand it in at a police 
station or a branch of the bank. Im not persuaded this happened.  
Miss N has also complained about  the way Lloyds  dealt  with her when she reported this 
incident. The bank  was, however, entitled  to ask questions  to establish what  happened,  and 
Im satisfied it did so in an appropriate  manner.  
For these reasons, I wont be making  an award in Miss Ns favour. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Miss Ns complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss N to accept or reject my decision  before 15 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9156695