K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about the amount  that hes been charged by Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance,  for damage to a car that he returned  when  his hire 
agreement ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr E under a hire agreement with Audi Finance that he signed  in 
September 2016. The hire agreement ended in September 2018  and the car was inspected 
by a third party  on behalf of Audi Finance. The inspection  report recorded the cars mileage 
as being 17,390 miles and identified that the car had a dented rear bumper for which  the 
estimated repair  cost was £138. The report included photos of the damage. But when the car 
was collected  from Mr E two days later he was told that the bumper  wasnt dented and that 
the damage was fair wear  and tear. Audi Finance charged him £138  for the damage so he 
complained to it.
Audi Finance said that there appeared to be damage to the paintwork and an indentation  to 
the rear bumper. It said that dents up to 10mm in diameter  are acceptable provided there are 
no more than two per panel  and the paint hasnt been removed. Mr E wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Audi 
Finance had acted  unfairly by choosing to charge  for this damage  and he recommended that 
it should waive the charge and apologise  for the poor experience that Mr E had when 
handing the car back.
Audi Finance has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says that 
the damage to the bumper is very evident  and exceeding all measurements,  although  it 
appreciates that a white car isnt the easiest to see damage but the images are still very 
clear. It says that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines state that 
dents over 15mm arent acceptable and that the agents ruler shown in the photos is 30mm 
on the smaller edge and the dent far exceeds  that and even if it isnt on the swage line its 
still outside fair wear  and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The photos  included  in the inspection report clearly  show some damage  to the cars rear 
bumper. And the report says that the bumper is dented and that the estimated repair  cost 
was £138. The car was collected two days later and Mr E says that he was told that there 
was no dent and the damage  falls within allowable levels  and that he was being treated 
unfairly and shouldnt be charged. He signed  the vehicle appraisal  form  which  made no 
reference to a dented  bumper - when  the car was collected to: confirm that I have been 
shown and agree with the appraisal of this vehicle .
Audi Finance says that the collection driver  isnt a qualified inspector and the appraisal form 
doesnt replace  the findings  of the inspection report.  But the inspection report says that the 
bumper is dented and the photos clearly show damage to the bumper.  Im not persuaded 
that the photos show a dented bumper, Mr E says that the bumper isnt dented and I 
Ref: DRN92426032consider it to be more  likely than not that the collection  driver who appraised the condition of 
the car said that the bumper wasnt dented.
So in these  circumstances  I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Audi Finance to 
waive the £138 that its charged Mr E for the dented  bumper. I consider that there  were  
discrepancies between the inspection  report and the collection process. Audi Finance says 
that feedback  has been  given to the third party that inspected and collected the car because  
the collection drivers comments were misleading. But Im not persuaded that Audi Finance 
should be required to apologise to Mr E for the poor experience  that he had when  handing 
the car back.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint. And I order  Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance, to waive the £138 that its charged 
him for the cars dented rear bumper.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9242603