K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms L says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  
Ms Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Ms L about 
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt  need to pay back  any of the commission  Ms L 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has offered  to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI, 
so I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Ms L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Ms Ls credit  card application form. There  is 
a box that needed  to be marked  if the policy was required.  There is a cross in the box on 
Ms Ls form, indicating that she agreed to take out the policy  during the discussion in 
branch. Ms L has then signed the form to confirm that the details were correct.
Ref: DRN94268012As BoS recommended the PPI to Ms L, it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Ms Ls circumstances  at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example,  Ms L was eligible for the cover 
and she had only limited employment  cover and savings,  so she had a need for cover.
There was nothing  about Ms Ls employment or occupation which would  have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect her ability  to claim.  BoS has told us that Ms L did in fact make a 
successful claim  on the policy for sickness.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms L as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what she reasonably  thought she was buying  from the information  she 
was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been  useful 
for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms L would have  declined  
the cover  had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  
she would have  still thought she had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Ms L would  have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Ms Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider  to be general  complaint points,  
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant BoS should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Ms Ls representative has not said how these  points  apply  to the specific  facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ls particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I do not uphold  
the mis-sale element of this complaint.  
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms L.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN94268013Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Ms Ls representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Ms L should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed  to tell Ms L about  the high commission  and profit-share  rates  paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Ms L wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission  and she should receive a refund of all the premiums  
she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Ms Ls PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Ms Ls case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Ms L about the commission.  So it follows that I dont think  the 
non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think  BoS treated Ms L unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Ms L back any of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Ms L some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Ms L as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything  
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN94268014out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Ms Ls complaint or make  any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Ms L paid for the PPI. But Bank 
of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms L. Bank of 
Scotland plc should now make arrangements to pay Ms L if it hasnt  done  so already 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Carole Clark
osmbudsman
Ref: DRN9426801