K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that a used car she got with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) provided by
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Land Rover  Financial Services) is of unsatisfactory  quality.
background 
Miss S got this car in mid-November 2017.  In February 2018 a warning light came on and
she took it for a long motorway drive to clear  the diesel particulate filter (DPF), in line with
the manufacturers guidance. The warning  light went off but reappeared about  a month later.
Miss S followed the onboard instructions again  and the light went  out but it came on again in 
April and appeared repeatedly, despite several  long drives. Miss S called out roadside  
assistance (for this brand  of vehicle) and the breakdown engineer told her the DPF wasnt  
regenerating as it should. She had driven just over 3,000 miles since supply  at this stage. 
The car was booked into a main  dealer  near the end of April, no fault codes were found  but 
the dealer regenerated the DPF and Miss S took the car back. The light reappeared about a 
week later,  after shed travelled another 300 miles. The dealer checked the DPF again. Soot 
levels were high and a new filter was fitted at no cost to Miss S in early May. The warning 
light came  on again  a few weeks later and illuminated regularly after that. Miss S found this 
frustrating and inconvenient and the car went  back to the dealer in July. A fault code was 
found and the dealer checked oil dilution.  Oil and a filter were replaced  and the DPF was 
regenerated. The car was returned  to Miss S but, not long after she got it back, the car 
started losing  power. 
Miss S had noticed  this happened previously  just before the DPF light came  so she was 
concerned and the dealer  ran more tests in August  2018. Miss S complained to Black Horse  
at the time. She wanted to reject the vehicle because of these ongoing problems. Black 
Horse said there were no grounds  to do so as the dealer had concluded the DPF was 
working properly, when the car was driven  in line with the manufacturers recommendations.
In October  2018 Miss S took the car back to the dealer again. She reported ongoing issues
with the DPF, a faulty seatbelt warning light and problems  with the smart key. The car had
nearly 30,000  miles on the clock at this stage. The dealer was unable find any fault with the
seatbelt light or the smart key - but the smart key module was replaced as a precaution 
because other customers had reported similar  issues. The dealer acknowledged there was a 
problem with the DPF - the relevant job card says the warning  light stayed on despite  
confirming a regeneration had been  completed. Further tests showed the DPF held nearly 
50g of soot and the dealer  replaced the filter again under the manufacturers warranty.
Miss S raised another complaint  with Black Horse. She asked to reject  the car but Black  
Horse refused. It says (in summary) 
the dealer  found nothing wrong with the seat belt light or the smart key module and,
even if these were faulty, the issues appeared more than six months after supply  and 
theres no evidence  faults were present  at the outset;
any ongoing DPF issues were  due to the way the car was driven  the drive
cycles suggest  build-up was due to urban driving,  this reduced significantly following
motorway usage and the DPF was working  properly and did what  its supposed to do;
Miss S should have  known what was needed  to ensure the DPF didnt clog because
she was given information about  DPF maintenance when she got the car and she
had previous experience of driving  diesel vehicles.
Ref: DRN94640722Miss S remained unhappy. She says she followed all the advice she was given - she took
the car for longer journeys  and drove  in a lower gear often over the previous months  but that
didnt resolve the issue. In January  2019  the car went into limp mode and Miss S had to call 
out roadside assistance again. She says the warning light only appeared for about  two 
minutes this time before turning red. A malfunction  Pipe B on AdBlue and DPF was 
identified and the car was recovered to the dealer  where the DPF was repaired under the 
manufacturers warranty. 
Miss S made it clear that she wanted  to reject  the car but the manufacturer didnt accept 
there was an inherent problem and Black Horse wouldnt agree to take it back. Miss S 
remained concerned  about the cars  performance and reliability. She acknowledges
the warning light only reappeared once  after the DPF was repaired in January 2019. But, 
she says she wasnt driving  on the motorway much  and she kept the car in fifth gear most of 
the time - which was awkward and effectively made  sixth gear redundant. She decided to 
end the finance agreement a year early, in October  2019. Shes  been  stressed  and upset by
what happened and feels she lost out financially. She wants Black Horse  to provide a
refund and compensation.
Our investigator recommends the complaint  should  be upheld.  She checked the
manufacturers guidance for the DPF in Miss Ss car and the job cards relating to the
investigations and repairs carried  out. She acknowledges some tests  showed the car was
performing as expected and, according to the manual,  if the light extinguishes  then the
regeneration was successful. But, she thinks it is significant that warning lights re-appeared
soon after forced  regeneration and the DPF had to be replaced more than once over a
relatively short period  and distance  travelled  which suggests  a wider problem.
Shes satisfied the relevant manufacturer confirmed the presence  of some issues  -
sensors must be warm enough to read soot levels for the regeneration  to work effectively
and complete the cycle - and theres  no way to ensure that the optimum  temperatures  are
reached, except  by driving on the motorway and/or  A roads for extended periods. And, given
Miss Ss previous experience of driving diesel  vehicles  without  this issue,  shes  not
persuaded its likely the DPF problems were  down to her driving  style alone. She considers it 
is more likely than not this car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the outset.
Shes satisfied the dealers repair efforts  were  unsuccessful and she thinks Miss S should
have been allowed to reject the car and end the agreement in November 2018. She
considers Miss S was put to some distress  and inconvenience  having to take the car on
long runs and back  and forth to the dealer as well as experiencing worry and frustration over
its performance. To put things right she recommends Black  Horse  should
refund  the deposit of £2,000 plus interest;
refund  the negative  equity amount carried over into the second  finance agreement of
£1,385.19;
refund  15% of the monthly payments made  from February 2018 until the agreement
ended in November  2019 for impaired use; and
pay Miss S £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Miss S accepted  our investigators findings.  Black Horse hasnt responded, despite being  
allowed extra time to do so and the matter was referred to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN94640723Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to reach a slightly different  outcome 
to the one recommended by our investigator.  I issued  a provisional decision on 15 March  
2021 to give the parties  the chance  to consider my provisional findings and respond before  I 
made my final decision. My provisional  findings  are set out below. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances.
Ive summarised this complaint in less detail  than the parties but I want  to assure them  that
Ive reviewed all of the evidence available so far. If I dont respond to every  single point  thats
been raised its not because I havent  considered it. But, Im concentrating in this decision on
the issues that I think are key and Im satisfied that I dont need  to address every individual
argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome overall.
Black Horse  supplied this car to Miss S under a HPA and Im looking at Black Horses
obligations arising out of that finance  agreement. I dont apply the law but Im required to
take relevant law into account.  Im satisfied the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant
here and Black Horse  was required, under the CRA,  to ensure that this car was of
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
What amounts to satisfactory  quality  varies depending on individual  circumstances, but its
generally considered  reasonable to take age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into
account in the case  of a used car. The car Miss S got here was approximately 19 months
old, cost about  £27,000 and had around 23,000 miles  on the clock. I think  a reasonable
person would accept  that a car like this wouldnt achieve the same standard of quality as a
brand new vehicle  as some parts would be worn and might need replacing  or repairing
sooner or late  which is reflected in the lower  price paid.
I can see that Miss S reported several  issues during  the time she had this car. But, I think
the crux of her complaint  relates to the DPF and whether  that was faulty  when the car was
supplied. Im satisfied Miss S had problems with the car within six months  of supply. I can
see she raised issues relating to the DPF with the dealer in April 2018. And I think its likely
there was something  wrong at that stage because the dealer replaced the DPF under
warranty not long after.
Ive seen a chain of email  correspondence between Miss S and the dealer over the next six
months or so where she reports similar and recurring issues  with the DPF. I appreciate the
dealer was unable to identify a specific fault but Im satisfied further repairs  were  carried out
under warranty and it looks as if the DPF was replaced at least  once  more  during this time.
By January 2019, just three months  after the last DPF repair,  Miss S had to call out roadside
assistance again. The breakdown engineer  identified a problem related to the DPF and the
dealer replaced  the DPF again  shortly  after. I appreciate the manufacturer  didnt accept this
was due to an inherent  defect at the time - and Black  Horse told Miss S the problem was due
to the way the car was driven - but, repairs were once again authorised under the
manufacturers warranty.
As far as I can see the dealer replaced and/or repaired the DPF in Miss Ss car several times
over the course  of about 9 months   at no cost to her  under the manufacturers warranty.
Its difficult to see why the dealer would do so, if the issue was caused by Miss Ss driving
alone. I appreciate  the dealer found one drive  cycle that illustrated the DPF would
Ref: DRN94640724regenerate properly  when it was driven  in line with the manufacturers guidance. But I dont
think one drive cycle is sufficient to show a pattern  here and Im not persuaded its indicative
of the overall use of the car.
Im satisfied that Miss S is familiar with diesel cars  she told us shes  driven diesel vehicles
in the past and had no problems with the DPF. But, even  if Miss S hadnt been used to
driving a diesel, I think its likely she did her best to follow the dealers advice about taking
the car for long runs in lower gears  after she first reported problems in early 2018.  Emails
she sent to the dealer suggest  she went to considerable trouble to take the car for longer
runs - in line with the advice she was given - so the DPF could regenerate  regularly, but this
didnt work.
Looking at everything thats  happened,  Im satisfied it is more likely than not this car had an
inherent problem  with the DPF when it was supplied to Miss S and it was of unsatisfactory
quality. I think it was reasonable  of Miss S to give the dealer the opportunity  to fix things but
it looks as if the issue  persisted  despite  repeated attempts at repair  and its clear from
correspondence Ive seen that she wanted to reject the car from as early as June 2018. I find
it understandable  that Miss S had lost faith in the vehicle  by the time the DPF was replaced
again near the end of 2018. And I think Black  Horse should reasonably have allowed her to
exercise her final right to reject at that stage.
When we say a consumer should be allowed to reject goods we generally require a lender to
end the relevant finance agreement at no cost to the consumer and, if appropriate, provide a
refund and compensation. This usually includes any deposit paid and takes  account  of any
use the consumer  had, as well as other issues like interest. In this case,  Miss S no longer 
has the car. She was so unhappy and concerned about potential  future  issues that she 
decided to part exchange it in October 2019.  She acquired a new car then with finance that 
was also provided  by Black Horse.  
Ive seen the second finance agreement and it looks as if a shortfall of £1,385.19 under this 
HPA was carried over. Miss S says this negative equity was deducted by Black  Horse from a 
refund she was due when  the second finance agreement ended  last year. I dont think  thats 
fair in this situation.  If Black Horse had allowed  Miss S to reject this car in November 2018,  
as I think it should,  then she wouldnt have incurred this cost. So, I am minded to find it fair 
and reasonable for Black  Horse  to refund the sum of £1,385.19,  plus interest.
The HPA records that Miss S paid a deposit  of £2,000. The sale invoice says this was made
up of £1,500 cash and £500 part exchange  value. And I find it is fair that Black  Horse should
refund the deposit paid of £2,000, plus interest.
I think it was probably frustrating, not to mention stressful  and inconvenient, for Miss S when
these DPF problems kept recurring. Amongst other  things, Im satisfied she had to drive the
car in limp mode at times, call out recovery services more than once and take the car back
to the dealer several times for investigations and repairs. I accept she was given a courtesy
car when  her own was off the road  but this wasnt the car she was paying for and Miss S
says she found  these temporary  replacements were often more  expensive to fuel.
Taking everything into account,  I think the £500 compensation suggested by our investigator
for the distress and inconvenience Miss S experienced is fair. And, bearing  in mind the
overall award I am making,  I think a refund of 15% of monthly  payments for the loss
of/impaired use that Miss S experienced seems reasonable. Im inclined to make one
adjustment however - I think this refund  should  apply from April 2018, not February  as the
Ref: DRN94640725investigator recommended.
I say this because  it looks  as Miss S was able to use the car as intended for the first few
months after supply.  She says the DPF light came on only twice during that time and it went
out when she followed the onboard instructions - which sounds as the DPF was regenerating
in the way that it was supposed  to. I accept Miss S started to experience  significant  DPF
issues in April and Im satisfied its likely  her subsequent use of the car was impaired as a
result.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties  to provide any further comments and evidence  by 29 March 2021 and 
both parties have responded.  Black Horse accepted my provisional conclusions  although it 
remains of the view the way the vehicle was driven  caused the problems Miss S 
encountered. 
Miss S accepts my provisional findings for the most  part, but feels  she should receive a 
refund of 15% of each monthly payment from February 2018. She says (in summary) thats 
when the DPF light first illuminated, it reappeared  the following month and the dealer  
accepted there was a fault part in April which means she had been driving with a defective  
filter for some time.
I can see why Miss S feels the 15% refund should  start when the DPF light first appeared. 
And I accept  this may the point at which that issue first began to affect the vehicle. But, the 
purpose of the refund  is to compensate Miss S for the loss and/or impaired use she 
experienced as a result of faults that were  present  when she got the car. 
From the evidence I have  seen, I am not persuaded that the use Miss S had was impaired, 
to a significant extent,  in February and March  2018.  I think it is more likely than not the 
situation deteriorated in April 2018 - by which time the issue  had started to inconvenience 
Miss S and impair her use of the car. Im satisfied this continued over the months that 
followed, despite several attempts at repair. And I find it is reasonable for Black  Horse to 
refund 15% of each monthly  payment  made from April 2018, to reflect that.
I have considered the comments  made  by the parties and reviewed all the available 
evidence. Nothing  thats been  said has changed  my mind. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional findings, I remain of the view that this complaint  should  be upheld  and Miss S 
should receive a refund  and compensation as set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require Black Horse Limited (trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services) to:-
1. refund the deposit paid of £2,000;
2. refund £1,385.19 negative equity;
3. refund 15% of each monthly payment made  from April 2018 until the HPA ended 
to reflect  impaired/loss of use of the car;
4. pay interest on all refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to date of
Ref: DRN94640726settlement; and
5. pay £500 compensation for inconvenience  and distress caused.
If Black Horse  does not pay the £500 compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it that Miss S accepts my final decision then it must also 
pay 8% simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. 
If Black Horse  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9464072