K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the service  they received from Clydesdale Bank Plc when they 
were buying  their house. Theyre  unhappy  that there  was a typographical error in their 
mortgage offer so it showed there would be a £1,000 retention  when it should have been 
£10,000, and when Clydesdale noticed  the error it didnt notify them.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt  minded to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I invited both parties  to let me have  any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision. 
Clydesdale said it had nothing further to add, and Mr and Mrs T didnt respond.
Ive reviewed everything carefully and considered the case afresh, but my opinion  hasnt  
changed. Ive reached the same findings  and for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense  Im satisfied Clydesdale Bank Plc has already 
made a fair offer of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN99095352COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the service they received from Clydesdale  Bank Plc when they were 
buying their house. Theyre unhappy that there was a typographical error  in their mortgage offer so it 
showed there  would be a £1,000 retention when  it should have been £10,000, and when Clydesdale 
noticed the error it didnt notify them.
background
Mr and Mrs T applied for a mortgage with Clydesdale through an independent  financial adviser (IFA). 
The IFA obtained an agreement in principle on 19 June 2017 which showed Mr and Mrs T wanted to 
borrow £231,201.
A valuation  was carried on the property on 18 July 2017 and the valuer said a timber and damp report 
was needed, as well as potentially a mundic  report (if an extension had been built before 1950). The 
mundic report wasnt needed, and Mr and Mrs T obtained the timber  and damp report on 28 July 2017  
and a copy was provided to Clydesdale. The report raised various  concerns about the property and 
gave a price of £10,792  + VAT to put things right.
Clydesdale issued a mortgage offer on 4 August 2017, and mistakenly entered  the retention amount 
as £1,000  rather  than £10,000. Mr and Mrs T accepted this offer.
On 29 November  Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor  emailed  them to request some information and money  for a 
chancel search, and in that email asked There is a retention of £10,000, were you aware of this? Mr 
and Mrs Ts solicitor then emailed a copy of a revised  offer dated  14 August which had the £10,000 
retention.
The IFA contacted Clydesdale on 30 November  to query the retention and on 4 December Clydesdale  
agreed to reduce it back to the original £1,000. The certificate of title was then received on 15 
December and the mortgage  completed on 18 December.
Following receipt of a letter in April 2018 saying  the time to drawdown the £1,000 retention  had 
expired, Mr and Mrs T complained to Clydesdale.  It apologised for the incorrect information about the 
retention and not telling Mr and Mrs T that it had been corrected to £10,000. It said it had put that right 
at the time when it agreed to revert to a £1,000 retention and it offered £150 compensation.
The adjudicator thought Clydesdale needed to do more than that and upheld  the complaint. She said 
Clydesdale should refund the costs Mr and Mrs T had told us theyd incurred  for the reports - £280 for 
the timber and damp report and £350 for the mundic  report. She later said Clydesdale should release 
the £1,000 retention to Mr and Mrs T and increase their mortgage by that amount. Clydesdale didnt  
agree and Mr and Mrs T said they wanted between £18,000  and £20,000 compensation. As the 
parties couldnt agree  its been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Mr and Mrs T have  set out their account of events in considerable 
detail. I trust they wont  take it as a discourtesy  that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours  is an informal  dispute resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr and Mrs T. But although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it in order to reach  
Ref: DRN99095353the right outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from,  consumers and 
businesses.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that the adjudicator upheld their complaint but just got the amount wrong. 
Theyve asked where the consistency  is, and say they feel its the amount of money involved  thats 
changed the outcome, nothing else.
Firstly I can reassure  Mr and Mrs T the sum of money involved isnt an issue, as the amount they say 
they want  of about £20,000 is way below the maximum amount I can award.  The size of any potential 
award has no bearing on the outcome. The outcome is dependent  on the facts of the case, what  the 
business has done wrong (if anything), and what its already done to put it right (again,  if anything).
Our adjudicators are tasked  with looking  into complaints  and setting  out their thoughts. But their 
thoughts are only that. Theyre not a decision  and arent binding. 
We have  a two-stage process, and the second stage of that  if either  party doesnt agree with the 
adjudicator  is for an ombudsman  to decide the case. And thats what  Ive provisionally  done here. It 
wouldnt be a true two stage process  if I simply  rubber-stamped what  our adjudicator thought  even if 
I didnt agree.
The ombudsman instead reviews the entire complaint from the beginning,  without bias to either  side 
(and without  being led by the adjudicators assessment), and reaches a decision that he or she 
considers fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In some  cases  the outcome  remains the same, 
but in others  this results  in a change.
There have been various discrepancies and errors in what Mr and Mrs T have said throughout  this 
complaint. Weve been given many different dates for when things apparently  happened, and been 
told a mundic  report was paid for that wasnt.  
Even in response  to a query  about the discrepancies there  were more errors  in dates, and about 
whether Mr and Mrs T had told us they had obtained a mundic report. Mr and Mrs T said (about the 
mundic report):
I have only ever said in writing the damp and timber report was £120?
I have also only ever said in writing that I did not have a mundic report.
I just checked my first emailed word  document outlining  the costs  I sent on 8.11.2018 and it 
confirms this, so I dont  understand where youre  getting this information?
Any other  notes you have about this will be down  to when  [the adjudicator] called me out of the 
blue and asked me about the costs I incurred  and where  or not I had a Mundic.  I gave her rough 
figures on the phone (from memory over one year before) and then evidenced this all with the 
correct numbers. I told her on the phone I thought I had a Mundic report  done as this was 
requested of me. When I checked I didnt need one in the end but I couldnt  remember when  asked 
out of the blue on the phone something  that happened over a year ago, I corrected that 
immediately in writing.
But in their original complaint letter to us in August 2018, when Mr and Mrs T thought  Clydesdale 
couldnt locate the reports, they said:
To satisfy my complaint I would like the following from Clydesdale:
1.My mortgage  to be increased  by £1000 and paid to me  I would expect this to be merged 
with my mortgage  and result  in a higher monthly payment (on same terms).
2.£430  I paid for the valuation to be refunded  to me along with £350 for the mundic test and the 
£280 for the damp and timber. Clydesdale have lost these reports  and cannot tell me what  
they contain nor can they tell me what work I require  so why should  I be further out of pocket?
Ref: DRN990953543.A payment for the distress and inconvenience caused   a much higher amount than the £150 
Clydesdale have tried to palm me off with.
4.A written letter of acknowledgement  and an apology.
It turned out Mr and Mrs T only paid £120 for the timber and damp  report, and didnt obtain a mundic 
report.
Putting all that aside, this complaint is much  less complex  than its been made to look. The facts  that 
arent in dispute are that:
Mr and Mrs T accepted the mortgage offer of 4 August 2017.
That mortgage offer contained a £1,000 retention.
Mr and Mrs T obtained  a timber  and damp  report  and that highlighted all the work that needed  
to be done to the property and gave a quote for completing the works.
If Clydesdale hadnt changed the retention to £10,000 without notifying Mr and Mrs T then the 
mortgage would have completed on the above  basis and Clydesdale would have done nothing wrong 
as all those facts  were clear to Mr and Mrs T in August 2017 and they chose to proceed on that basis.
Mr and Mrs T have  said they didnt  notice the £1,000 retention on the first offer but thats not 
something I can hold Clydesdale liable for. The mortgage offer was laid out in a format  thats agreed 
by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, and was sent both to the IFA and to Mr and Mrs T. I 
can only suggest Mr and Mrs T take up the oversight in noticing the condition with their IFA if they 
want to.
Clydesdale made a mistake  when it didnt notify Mr and Mrs T of the increase in retention to £10,000, 
but when it was told about that mistake  on 30 November  it put it right on 4 December by reverting 
back to a £1,000 retention; a period  from Thursday to Monday at a time when its clear  from the 
solicitors correspondence that matters  werent  ready for exchange  of contracts anyway. So within 
days of being notified of the higher retention, Mr and Mrs T were back in the same position  theyd 
accepted and had been happy to proceed with four months earlier.
Mr and Mrs T have  said they wouldnt have bought the property, or could have renegotiated the 
purchase price, had they known about  this in August  rather than just before exchange. The report Mr 
and Mrs T paid for was a basic mortgage valuation. The report says:
Important Notice
1.This is a copy  of the valuation report which we have obtained  to help us assess  whether the 
property is a suitable  security for your mortgage loan. We provide this purely so that you are 
aware of the report  we will use as part of our lending decision, it is not suitable for any other 
purpose and neither we or the valuer intend that you will place  any reliance upon it. We do not 
instruct a survey of any kind.
2.The inspection  and report are designed to comply with the guidance we issue to valuers and 
the Royal  Institution  of Chartered Surveyors guidelines  for valuations for Mortgage Purposes 
(the Red Book) only. Please  note that this is not a Homebuyer Report, Building or Structural 
Survey or Condition report.  There may be defects in the property which would  be revealed by 
a detailed survey  and we strongly recommend  that you consider whether  to obtain your own 
survey and/or whether  further investigations are required prior to making any commitments.  
You should not assume that any defects  or issues referred to in the report  are the only 
defects or issues in the property, or if none are mentioned, that none exist. Where a present 
value and an after works or repair value are provided, any difference  or retention is not the 
actual cost of those works or repairs.
3.No warranty  or assurance is given  that the purchase price is reasonable and you must  not 
assume that if we offer a mortgage, the property is suitable for your requirements.
Ref: DRN99095355The valuation  report says Special reports considered essential for mortgage purposes and that 
indicates a timber and damp report is needed, and potentially a mundic  report. The notes section for 
that question says Instruct a specialist  contractor to inspect the whole property and report on internal 
dampness and the condition of all timbers  including  (where existing) the sub floor,  roof void(s) and 
other voids. All necessary  works to be carried out and covered by an insurance  back guarantee.
Mr and Mrs T seem  to be focussing on two later questions which  are Are any other repairs 
considered essential for mortgage  purposes?  and Are there any further matters considered essential 
for mortgage purposes? But the key words in those questions are other and further, which clearly 
mean other than (or further to) those already mentioned. As the need for a timber  and damp report - 
plus all the necessary  works arising from that to be carried out - had already been mentioned  it clearly 
didnt need to be covered  again in those sections.
Unfortunately neither Mr and Mrs T nor their IFA checked what on the timber  and damp  report was 
deemed necessary.  They say it was up to Clydesdale to tell them, but as they were  buying  the house 
 and are now saying  they wouldnt have bought it, or would have negotiated  a reduced price  then it 
was in their interests  to check what was necessary and what wasnt.  They  say they think the 
contractor who carried out the report would include things that werent  necessary  so he could then 
quote for the inflated amount  of work. But its not Clydesdales fault that Mr and Mrs T engaged a 
contractor they feel they couldnt trust to be honest. If they were unsure about the amount of work 
listed as needing doing, they should have instructed another contractor  to provide a second opinion or 
simply instructed an independent  timber and damp surveyor that doesnt actually carry  out the work,  
so had no vested interest in talking up the amount  of work needed.
As this was a basic mortgage valuation  it wasnt carried out for Mr and Mrs Ts purposes, so it 
wouldnt have been wrong if a timber and damp report was recommended  but not insisted upon,  or for 
Clydesdale to choose to put no retention on the mortgage. Mr and Mrs T say theyre stuck as when 
they come to remortgage the new lender may raise the same issues, but that would always  have 
been a problem regardless of this issue  with the retention. Its not Clydesdales job to tell Mr and Mrs 
T whether  a property is a good buy or whether theyre paying the right price; thats up to Mr and Mrs 
T to decide after getting  their own independent reports. As they chose to ignore the recommendations 
in the timber  and damp report and just proceed with the purchase I cant hold Clydesdale liable for 
that.
Mr and Mrs T are confusing two issues, Clydesdales mistake with the retention  and the choice  Mr 
and Mrs T made to proceed with the purchase. Mr and Mrs T chose to proceed with the purchase 
after theyd seen the timber  and damp report  and after receiving a mortgage offer with a £1,000 
retention. And thats the position Clydesdale put them back  in before completion when it agreed to 
reduce the retention  back down to £1,000.
Clydesdale could have  chosen to have  no retention; that was a matter  for its commercial  discretion. 
The inclusion of a retention isnt designed to bring Mr and Mrs Ts attention  to the amount of work the 
timber and damp report theyd obtained noted they needed to do to the property.  The retention is 
designed to protect Clydesdale  in the event the work wasnt carried out and it then had to repossess  
the property.  
Mr and Mrs T had the valuation report and timber and damp report four months before they 
exchanged contracts. Im satisfied that they had time to review  their position  based on the information  
contained in those As Mr and Mrs T had concerns  about the quality  of the timber and damp report  - as 
they imply they saw it simply as a sales tactic by the contractor  - then they had sufficient time to 
instruct an independent  report,  but they didnt  to do so. 
I understand this was a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs T (I wont go into that in detail here to protect 
their anonymity) but the mistake Clydesdale  made it put right within days  of being notified of the error.  
This put Mr and Mrs T back in the position theyd accepted in August 2017. Anything  else simply isnt 
the responsibility of Clydesdale.
Ref: DRN99095356Theres no basis  for me to order Clydesdale to refund the costs of the reports as these  were always  
needed, or for me to order Clydesdale to release the retention  or cover any of the costs of the works. 
Clydesdale offered £150  compensation  and Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
For all of the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties  by the 
due date, my provisional  decision is I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense Im satisfied 
Clydesdale has already made a fair offer of compensation. Theres no need  for either party to repeat  
what theyve already said.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9909535