K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a portfolio of three buy-to-let mortgages that the late Mr Q held with 
The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc (TMW).  When Mr Q died, his widow  Mrs Q informed TMW 
and that she would be applying for probate in order to act as executor of his estate. It took 
approximately nine months for Mrs Q to obtain  probate, and she now complains, on behalf  of 
the estate that during the interim TMW:  
-didnt tell her it was increasing the interest  rate on the mortgages  because the fixed 
rate products  had finished. This meant the payments  nearly doubled and, because 
the amounts Mrs Q was paying didnt change, the mortgages went into arrears;
-refused to discuss the mortgages with Mrs Q until probate  was granted;
-wouldnt let her change the mortgages onto a new product.
Mrs Q says that two other lenders froze Mr Qs mortgages after his death. She wants  TMW 
to do the same, and to waive the extra interest it charged.
background
Mr Q died suddenly in December 2017.  At the time he had three buy-to-let mortgages with 
TMW. Mrs Q notified TMW, which wrote  on 22 January 2018 asking for the death certificate. 
Mrs Q provided  the death certificate promptly and TMW asked for the grant of probate. It 
said it couldnt provide Mrs Q with any account  information until she provided probate.
Mrs Q told TMW that she was getting  probate. She said the properties were all rented out 
and she wanted  to remortgage  them  into her own name. She set up standing  orders  to carry 
on paying the mortgages.
In late June, TMW sent arrears letters for all three  of the mortgages. It hadnt told Mrs Q 
previously, but the fixed rate products for the three  mortgages had ended, TMW had put 
them onto standard variable rate (SVR), and the monthly payment had gone up, 
substantially. Mrs Q was making the payment by standing order; unlike direct debits, they 
dont change automatically and now werent  enough. Thats why the accounts were  in 
arrears.
Mrs Q rang TMW, saying  she hadnt  been  told about  the interest rate change. TMW  said the 
arrears figures on the letter were  correct, but said it couldnt discuss the accounts  until she 
had probate. Mrs Q explained  why there  were  delays to getting  probate.  
Mrs Q rang TMW in August  and September with further updates.  She said she planned to 
remortgage the properties to her own name. Probate eventually  came through  in September,  
and Mrs Q sent it to TMW.  
As Mrs Q now had probate,  she rang TMW on 28 September 2018. TMW  told her that even 
though she now had probate, it couldnt  do a product switch  to a cheaper  fixed  rate because 
of the arrears which had accrued since April. TMW told Mrs W shed have to clear  the 
arrears and could  only do a product switch two months after the arrears  were cleared. 
The same day, Mrs Q paid £3,127.32  to clear the arrears, but she complained. She was 
unhappy that the mortgages had been  changed  onto SVR and she hadnt been  allowed to 
Ref: DRN94548452change to another fixed rate deal.  She explained  that she couldnt have increased the rent 
on the buy-to-let  properties, to pay the increased monthly payments, because until probate  
she didnt own them. Mrs Q pointed out that if her husband had been alive,  hed have been 
allowed to change to a new product. And TMW had given her no notice of the increase, and 
shed been at the mercy of waiting for probate, which wasnt her fault.  
On 16 October, TMW replied that its call handler on 28 September  2018 had been wrong to 
say it would look at a product switch after the arrears  had been  cleared. It said that as the 
mortgages had been in Mr Qs name, not in joint names, Mrs Q would have to pay off the 
mortgages completely,  either by selling up or obtaining mortgages of her own. It paid her 
£75 compensation  for the incorrect  information.
Mrs Q was very upset, and rang TMW several more  times. She said shed  been  promised 
calls back which hadnt happened, and had written  letters which  hadnt been  answered. She 
felt TMW was ignoring her and hoping shed go away. Mrs Q said shed felt TMW  had 
pushed her into paying £3,127.32 to clear the arrears by threats  of possession, and by the 
incorrect information shed been given on the phone in September.  She explained that shed  
intended to remortgage with TMW but would now be going elsewhere because  she couldnt  
face dealing with TMW. Mrs Q also pointed out that Mr Q had had other buy-to-let properties 
with other  lenders. And those lenders  had held everything, at the same interest rate, until 
she was able to get probate. Mrs Q asked for her £3,172.32  to be refunded.
TMW said it appreciated that Mrs Q wasnt responsible  for the arrears.  But it said it believed 
its response to Mrs Qs complaint had been  fair. Mrs Q remained upset and complained to 
us. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold Mrs Qs complaint. He said that as the June letters  had 
been sent to Mrs Qs address, she was aware  of the arrears and could have changed her 
standing order to cover the increased  payments.
Mrs Q was still unhappy. She said that when she got the arrears letters, she hadnt been  
able to pay double  what the monthly payments had been before. And because  she was still 
waiting for probate, she hadnt  had the power  to put up the tenants rent, or to remortgage. 
She pointed  out that the arrears had only happened  because Mr Q had died  if hed still 
been alive, hed have been allowed to have a new fixed  rate deal. She explained  that two 
other lenders had frozen payments altogether, and hadnt even asked for interim payments 
for six months.  Mrs Q pointed out that losing her husband, with grief and despair, was hard 
enough without  dealing with a business that showed her no compassion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Q has explained that two other lenders  froze her husbands  mortgages,  and didnt 
require any payments at all for six months. I take her point, but each  lender  will have its own 
policies, and I cant use what  the other  lenders  did here as a reference point for deciding  if 
TWM treated  the estate  fairly, firstly  when it increased the rates.
The starting point  here is the mortgage terms and conditions. These say TMW  will charge  
the specified fixed rate for the duration of the product,  at which  point the accounts would 
revert to SVR unless a new product was taken  out. Thats  what  TMW did. Not only could 
TMW not take Mrs Qs instructions on what to do with the mortgages; it couldnt even 
discuss them with her. Mrs Q only found  out about  the arrears because  TMW sent them to 
Ref: DRN94548453the registered address for the estate. Meanwhile, until probate was granted,  Mrs Q couldnt  
negotiate new rents with the tenants to pay the higher monthly repayments.
A grant of probate authenticates an executor. Without it, an executor cant prove their right to 
deal with the personal estate. So TMW acted correctly when it wouldnt allow Mrs Q to deal 
with Mr Qs mortgages (and wouldnt even discuss them with her) until she had probate.  Its 
worth observing that even  if TMW had told Mrs Q about the impending  rate changes,  it 
wouldnt have changed anything because,  by her own admission, Mrs Q wasnt  able to 
increase the amount she was paying into the mortgages at that point.
It was unfortunate  timing  that the fixed rates expired  during  the period when Mrs Q was 
awaiting a complex  probate.  I understand her argument that Mr Q would have negotiated 
new rates,  which  would have avoided this increase.  But thats not something I can allow to 
influence my decision. What I have  to consider is whether TMW  acted outside its powers 
when it moved the mortgages onto SVR, and by doing so treated the estate  unfairly. In all 
the circumstances, for the reasons Ive set out, it did neither.
TMW acted reasonably in putting the mortgages  onto SVR  because  thats  what happens 
when any fixed rate product ends, unless a new product is negotiated. And in April 2018 
Mrs Q didnt yet have  probate to allow her to do that. The arrears resulting from the switch to 
SVR were a legitimate cost incurred by the estate, but they werent a loss. The payment 
Mrs Q made  to bring the arrears up to date was a liability of the estate,  so she had a duty as 
executor to pay them, regardless of anything TMW might have said about switching products 
if she did so. Either way, theres no basis for me to find that TMW  should  return the arrears 
payment.
other matters
Mrs Q is also unhappy at being misled into thinking  she might  be able to negotiate new rate 
products once she had probate. TMW had told her in writing  at the outset that the mortgages 
would have to be repaid.  But several months  later,  it had contradicted that when Mrs Q was 
talking about clearing the arrears. TMWs  admitted getting that wrong and apologised, as Id 
expect it to do; its also paid £75 for the mistake. But whilst that will undoubtedly have added  
to an already stressful situation for Mrs Q personally, I can only award redress if the mistake 
had an adverse effect on the late Mr Qs estate.
That might seem like a fine distinction,  but its a very important one; it goes  to the heart  of 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service. The banks customer here,  and the party 
eligible to bring  the complaint to us, is the late Mr Qs estate.  It isnt Mrs Q personally;  her 
role is to represent the estate in bringing the complaint, in her capacity as its executor. 
What that means  is that I cant award  her any compensation for personal stress and/or 
inconvenience. That was her personal experience, and I dont doubt that it was (and 
probably still is) a horrible  time for her. But it wasnt something that happened  to the estate. I 
understand that wont sit well with Mrs Q as I suspect  it negates  much  of her reasons for 
bringing the complaint. Im not unsympathetic towards her feeling  in that respect;  but I cant  
act outside the powers our rules  give me as an ombudsman. If I were to do that, Id risk any 
decision I issued being unenforceable.
I accept Mrs Q was both proactive and co-operative, despite it being  such  a difficult time for 
her. I accept  that her statement that TMW  didnt return calls or reply  to letters.  TMWs call 
notes show that Mrs Q took the initiative, and she kept TMW  informed about probate and 
Ref: DRN94548454about her plans. She also set up a standing order to continue  to make the monthly payments 
Mr Q had done. And after the 28 September call, she paid the arrears.  On the latter  point, its 
worth repeating that paying the arrears was something Mrs  Q did in her capacity as 
executor, to meet a legitimate liability of the estate.
TMW has paid £75 compensation,  and it does look as though its paid it directly to Mrs Q. 
Mrs Q might think that scant compensation for all that shes  gone  through  in her dealings 
with TMW. But as Mrs Q personally wasnt TMWs  customer, I cant  express  an opinion on 
that or make an award to increase the payment to her. I can only consider awarding 
compensation if theres been an adverse impact on the estate because of what  TMW  did, or 
didnt do. The estate of a deceased person can suffer financial loss (and the available  
evidence doesnt  suggest thats  happened here) but it cant suffer  distress  and 
inconvenience in the way that a person can.
I said earlier that Im not unsympathetic towards  Mrs Q, and whilst it might  not seem  like it, I 
meant that. Theres no doubt  that Mrs Q was caught  in a very difficult  position until she got 
probate, but its important to keep in mind that so too was TMW.  Sadly,  this is one those 
unfortunate situations where the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service  dont really allow 
a person to obtain the remedy  they feel justified in seeking for a personal experience that 
arises when theyre acting  not for themselves  personally. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q, on behalf 
of the late Mr Qs estate, to accept or reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9454845