K820x#14complaint
The executor of the estate of the late Mr H complains that National Westminster  Bank Plc 
wont refund  payments he didnt authorise.
background
The executor is the sister of the late Mr H. She says that before he died his stepdaughters  
made withdrawals from his account that she disputes he authorised. Mr H had given them 
his card and PIN to make essential  payments   for example  for shopping.  But there were 
multiple cash point  withdrawals and in September  2018, just before he died a payment for 
gambling. She wants the money refunded to his estate and for all the payments to be 
considered  not just the ones in the 13 months before this was reported.
NatWest says that the payments were  made  using  the genuine card and the correct PIN. 
Under the terms and conditions  of the account Mr H shouldnt have disclosed his security  
information. As he had permitted payments  using  his card any dispute about some  of them 
was a civil matter  and it said it wouldnt be refunding the payments.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that he was 
considering 124 cash point withdrawals totalling over £15,300 and the executor had also 
raised a dispute  about nine payments to a convenience  store and the one payment for 
gambling of £61. The total in dispute  was just under £16,500 covering payments between  12 
August 2017 and 3 September 2018.  This was the period that NatWest  was required to 
consider.
He took account of the increased  level of payments on the account highlighted by the 
executor. But he said that without  testimony from Mr H there  was no way to determine which 
transactions were  authorised and which were  not. And he wasnt able to say that Mr H hadnt 
consented to these payments including allowing his stepdaughters to carry out the gambling 
payment. Statements  were being sent monthly  and none  of the payments triggered the fraud  
detection system at NatWest. We werent looking  here at a complaint NatWest had settled 
for a fraudulent cheque on his account  for £5,000.
The executor didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 and 2017 in considering  
this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised  if it was consented  to. So 
its not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent 
authorised Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr H authorise all these payments on the account by allowing someone else to use 
the card as NatWest  says?
Ref: DRN91522802The payments were made when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN 
entered. So Im satisfied  these were authenticated. NatWest has looked  at payments over 13 
month as required by the PSR and the terms and conditions  of the account. I dont think that 
creates any unfairness here for reasons Ill explain below.
Mr Hs sister  says that he didnt consent  to these payments for a number of reasons. She 
says he was careful with money  and thats why for example he wouldnt have spent so 
much in a more expensive convenience store. His health was deteriorating and he spent 
periods in hospital. He had no need for this cash and his pattern of spending  compared  to a 
trend since 2013 was much higher  towards the end of his life. That was a time when he 
wouldnt have needed to spend  so much.  Her son has confronted the stepdaughters who 
have denied any foul play and she hadnt  reported this to police  as she was waiting for the 
outcome of this complaint.
I understand all the reasons Mr Hs sister has put forward  here.  I can see the inferences she 
has drawn from the pattern of spending and that she has made a plausible case. The 
difficulty is that she has no evidence  to show what the actual arrangement was between     
Mr H and his stepdaughters  and thats also assuming they made  all these payments. As 
far as I can see her case is based  on her testimony and her detailed  analysis of the bank 
statements - including  of particular periods when more money was taken out. But Mr H 
clearly trusted his stepdaughters such  that he gave them access  to use the card on his 
account. I just dont have a way of fairly determining the limit of that access  and identifying  
any payments that he didnt authorise.
As the investigator  has said Mr H was receiving statements. There is nothing to suggest  
NatWest was told of any particular vulnerability  such that he wasnt in a position  to manage 
his own finances.  NatWest is responsible for setting  its own fraud  detection processes. I 
cant fairly say that NatWest ought  to have  identified these payments as fraudulent and that 
they must  have been. Its systems didnt pick them up as suspicious. If I was to find they 
were fraudulent then Id be asking it to refund them in any case.
All these  points apply  whether Im looking  at 13 months or a longer period. The executor 
referred to a cheque that had been  refunded.  Wed  been asked by her not to look at this 
complaint as it was settled so we dont have  the evidence about  it. But I just want to say 
though that my understanding  is that the signature  on the cheque didnt match  that of the 
genuine one for Mr H. Thats very different  from here when all the payments as I say were 
authenticated with the correct security information.  And I cant draw any inferences about 
that claim being upheld. Im looking at the circumstances  here.
So I know  Im going  to disappoint  the executor deeply when I say that I dont have a basis to 
ask NatWest to do anything further.  I dont doubt her genuine belief as Mr Hs sister that 
these were fraudulent  payments. But I am unable fairly to make that finding here. 
Ref: DRN91522803my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executor of the 
estate of the late Mr H to accept or reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9152280