K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ts credit card account when  he applied  for the card in person at a branch of Halifax.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ts signed application form for the credit card. It includes a box 
to mark if the applicant wants Credit  Card Repayment Insurance  (a form of PPI). 
Theres a cross  in the box, indicating that Mr T wished to take the cover. I think Halifax  
made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it  although I 
can understand why he may no longer remember this.
 Mr T told us that Halifax didnt give him advice, or recommend that he take out the PPI. 
Halifax says it did. For the purposes  of this decision,  Ive assumed that a 
recommendation was made.  This is to Mr Ts advantage, as it means  that Halifax had 
a responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for him. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.
 I acknowledge that Mr Ts told us hed have been entitled to pay from his employer  if 
hed been off sick. But the policy would  have helped with Mr Ts monthly credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months  per successful  claim  for accident or sickness.  Thats  
longer than Mr Ts told us hed have been  entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have  
helped with his monthly credit  card repayments for up to 10 months per successful 
claim for unemployment. Whats more,  the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any payments Mr T received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses.
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Ts told us he had a death in service policy. But that provided 
a different type of cover, and would have paid out in different circumstances from the 
PPI. So it doesnt affect my decision that the PPI could have been  useful  for Mr T.
Ref: DRN98614232 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr T chose to take out the policy. So he appears  to have 
wanted this type of cover. Based  on what hes told us about his circumstances at the 
time, he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions  or limitations (for example, 
provisions concerning unusual working arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
 So taking everything into account,  I think its unlikely Mr T would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance,  I think hed still have  
taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments, including what hes said about not having been  
told he had the option of looking  elsewhere  for an alternative policy. But Halifax  wasnt  
obliged to tell Mr T about products that may have  been available from other providers. So 
this doesnt change my conclusion.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9861423