K822xcomplaint
Mr M is unhappy  with a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  trading as Volkswagen Finance (VWFS). He 
says a feature  of the car didnt work, so the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when he got it.
background 
Mr M acquired a used car in September 2016 from a VW dealer (Dealer A) with a hire 
purchase agreement  financed with VWFS. The car was around six months  old and had 
covered around  5,000 miles.
Mr M says when  he got the car, a feature  that amplified the drivers voice to the rear 
passengers didnt work. He says he took the car a number of times to a local franchised VW 
garage (Dealer B) who couldnt fix the problem.
In March 2018 Mr M got in touch with VWFS. He complained and said he wanted to reject  
the car because the feature still didnt work. VWFS said it would  be fair for Dealer A to 
attempt to repair it.
Dealer A said they had tested the function in another car of the same model and it worked. It 
thought the problem was likely to be the settings of the car rather  than a fault and said it 
would talk Mr M through this on the phone. It then offered  to pick the car up and to provide 
Mr M with a courtesy car while it was looked at. 
Before the car was collected, Mr M requested a settlement figure from VWFS  and sold the 
car  repaying the finance. Mr M now thinks he should get half of all the repayments he 
made to the finance agreement paid back to him as compensation for the feature not 
working. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen enough to confirm  that 
there was a fault with the car. So he didnt think VWFS had done anything wrong. Mr M 
disagreed, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I sent Mr M and VWFS a provisional decision on 13 December 2018.  Ive included the 
findings from my provisional  decision below:
When considering  whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that when Mr M acquired  
the car, the supplier (VWFS) had a responsibility  to make sure it was of satisfactory quality  
taking into account  things like its description, price and other considerations like its age and 
mileage.
So, what  I need to think about is if the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr M got it or not. 
If it wasnt, I need to think about what would be fair for VWFS to do to put things right.
The first thing to consider  is whether  I think its most likely that there was a fault with the 
voice amplification feature. Ive seen some differing accounts about this. Mr M says the 
feature didnt ever work. Dealer A thinks its most likely an issue with the settings  not a 
fault. And in an email  from the service  manager at Dealer B, they said it always  worked 
when it was checked. But, what Dealer  B told me doesnt appear  to tie up with the evidence 
it provided.
Ref: DRN92885402Dealer B sent us some job cards  from when the car was seen. The first of these is dated 
around a week after Mr M acquired  the car. This says Check how to activate voice  
activation? Cust bought car with it in?. There is another job card from around three weeks 
later that says CHECK REF VOICE  AMPLIFICATION NOT WORKING. So it seems  the 
feature wasnt working very soon after Mr M got the car.
In April 2017 theres a note on a technicians warranty report  about the feature that says 
Confirmed not working. It appears a software  configuration was done at this point  and there 
is another note that says final tests  okay. But looking at the Vehicle data VWFS sent us, 
theres a note from September 2017  saying Customer complaint: Voice amplification not 
working and one from October 2017  saying  CHECK VOICE AMPLIFICATION. 
Ive also considered an email from Dealer B to VW customer service and Mr M that was sent 
in September  2017. This says we are struggling  to resolve Mr Ms issues. Technical  have 
sent us some more  things  to try that havent worked.
Ive thought about the fact that Dealer A thinks that the problem was a settings  issue. But, as 
far as Im aware, they never saw the car after they sold it. Dealer  B was a franchised VW 
garage. It worked  on the car several  times and its notes specifically say they checked  the 
settings. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that the voice amplification feature didnt 
work as it shouldve in the car from when  Mr M acquired it. Im satisfied its most likely this 
was due to a fault. Even though it appears  this might have been fixed at one point, I think its 
likely it stopped working again shortly  after. And even if it was repaired, it seems it wasnt 
working for some time and took a significant  number of enquires before the software update  
was eventually carried out. 
I now need to consider  if this fault meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when Mr M 
acquired it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  specifically says that freedom from minor defects can be an 
aspect of the quality of goods in appropriate  cases.  Ive thought  about  the price  Mr M 
acquired the car for, along with the fact it was only around six months old and had only 
covered around  5000 miles.  Ive also considered  that the job card from around a week after 
Mr M acquired the car mentions a rattle from the passenger side that needed fixing. I think  a 
reasonable person would expect a car of this age and mileage to be in full working order  
and free from minor  defects. I dont agree with Mr M that the voice  amplification was a key 
feature of the car. But Im satisfied it not working still meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality when Mr M got it.
I now need to think about what would be reasonable for VWFS to do to put things right.  Mr M 
originally wanted  to reject the car. But, hes now sold it. So I think  the fairest  way for VWFS 
to put things right would be to pay Mr M some compensation  for the impaired use of the car. 
Mr M says that the voice amplification was a main  feature of the car and a reason for buying 
it - and it not working  was the reason  he sold it. So he says that he should get back  at least 
half the repayments he made towards  the finance.  But I dont think  this is reasonable. I 
understand it would  be annoying that a feature Mr M felt was important wasnt  working 
correctly. But Im not persuaded this was such a key issue,  as ultimately it didnt affect 
driving or the overall  operation of the car. But I accept that it not working caused 
inconvenience to him.  
Ref: DRN92885403Mr M also says he was caused some distress  and inconvenience because  of what  happened 
due to him going back and forth to Dealer  B. Ive also considered  this alongside the fact that 
he had impaired use of the car. 
Taking everything into account,  I initially think VWFS should pay Mr M £500 to make  up for 
the impaired usage of the car and for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
I gave both parties two weeks  to respond to my provisional decision with any comments  or 
further information. VWFS didnt  respond. Mr M said he didnt think £500 was enough  
compensation to put things right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having thought  about  all the information  
about the complaint again,  along  with what Mr M said in response to my provisional decision,  
I still think this complaint should be upheld. And I still think  £500  is a fair amount of 
compensation to put things rights.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M said he paid more  for this particular model of 
car than others of a different specification without the voice  amplification feature, so he lost 
out. But, Ive not seen  any evidence  of this. And as far as Im aware, the version  of the car 
Mr M acquired had other features apart from the voice amplification  that a standard model 
wouldnt have had. So I havent seen enough  to make me think its more likely than not Mr M 
paid more for the car, or sold it for less, because of this specific  feature.
Mr M also said that he went through some volume  adjustments over the phone  with 
Dealer A to try to solve the issue which didnt work.  And he says he didnt agree to drive  the 
car to Dealer A at his own time and expense  as that wouldnt  be fair. But, from looking at the 
notes VWFS  sent, Dealer A agreed  to collect the car from Mr M and provide a courtesy car  
so this wouldnt have  been at his time or expense. Ive thought about these points carefully,  
along with everything else Mr M said. But this doesnt  change my opinion.
So, to put things right, VWFS should pay Mr M £500.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct VWFS to pay Mr M £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9288540