K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC  mis-sold Miss D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago; and none of the original documents  from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Ive borne in 
mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all cases, Ive still 
had to decide whats most likely  to have happened, based on what evidence  there is. In a 
case such as this, the balance in finding  the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Ive considered carefully Miss Ds comments.  However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Miss D has said I do not recall  being  asked about  PPI, and firmly believe that I was not, and 
if I had, I would have  said I did not need  one.  She said this was because  she had equity of 
50%; had a secure job in which she was successful and well paid with good sickness 
benefits and a redundancy entitlement that would have cleared  the mortgage;  her family 
would have helped  if necessary; and she had life insurance and an endowment  policy to 
cover the mortgage  in the event of her death.  (Miss D also says she had pension  rights and 
union membership.)
The difficulty  is that this did all happen  about 22 years ago, and I wouldnt  expect  someone  
to recall in detail everything that happened that long ago. The fact that Miss D now believes 
it unlikely shed have  accepted PPI doesnt, by itself,  show  me clearly  enough  that, at the 
time, she might not have  thought it worthwhile.  The fact that she had 50% of equity wouldnt 
have made  it any more or less difficult if she did find herself suffering long term sickness  
she would  still need to meet the payments on the mortgage that she did take out. And the 
potential payments from the PPI could have lasted  for longer  than she received full sick pay, 
and would have  been paid on top of that sick pay (and also on top of redundancy pay, which 
shed have needed to cover all her living  expenses  and not just her mortgage). So this could 
have left her better off longer term, in case she faced very long term sickness or 
unemployment. I cant be sure she didnt think that herself  in 1996.
So it wouldnt be fair for me conclude, on the evidence available, that Lloyds added the PPI 
without Miss Ds knowledge or consent. I would need stronger evidence. 
Ref: DRN93605432Also, because of the potential benefits  described above, the recommendation of the policy 
by Lloyds wouldnt have  been inappropriate.  Being unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to 
significant difficulties,  and the PPI could have helped avoid those difficulties. It would have 
put off the time Miss D would have had to fall back  on the relatively small savings shes 
described, and on family help. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds Bank  explained  the costs  and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  would  have affected  whether 
Miss D took the PPI.
Its also possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Miss D would have been  affected  by any of these. Also,  its likely she was 
eligible for the policy, and shed be paying for it monthly, so (again assuming at the time she 
was actually aware of the PPI) she could  cancel it at any time without  further cost if her 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360543