K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc didnt treat them  fairly  when the term of their 
interest only mortgage expired. Mr W has managed the complaint throughout. Hes worried 
that hell have  to sell the property, and about  the impact this will have on his family.  Hed like 
Santander to allow them to apply for a term extension on a repayment  basis.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a joint flexi mortgage  of about £160,000 with Mr Ws parents in 
2005. £66,000 was on a repayment basis over a term of 25 years,  and £94,000 was on an 
interest-only basis over a term of 13 years. A savings account was linked to the mortgage 
and account holders were able to withdraw  sums paid into the savings account. The interest-
only part of the mortgage expired in December 2018. At that time, the mortgage balance  was 
about £119,000. 
In March 2018, Mr W applied to Santander to transfer all of the mortgage to a capital 
repayment basis in his sole name.  At that time he was separated  from Mrs W. Santander  
said this was affordable,  but he was unable to proceed at that time. 
Mr W says he then wanted  to make a new application jointly  with Mrs W, but Santander  
didnt allow this due to Mrs Ws credit  record. Santander also expressed  concerns about the 
mortgage being affordable which Mr W says are unfair. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying Santander 
hadnt acted unfairly  based on the information  it had. She said, given the difficulties caused  
by the Covid-19 pandemic and related restrictions, Santander should  allow  Mr and Mrs W six 
months to take advice  and decide what to do next. During this time, the parties should 
remain in communication  with each other  and try to reach a solution.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree,  and so the complaint  was passed to me. I sent a provisional 
decision to the parties  to explain  what I thought about the complaint. In summary, I said that 
Santander could  have engaged more proactively with Mr and Mrs W about  their options. I 
said it should hold possession action until May 2021. This would allow time for Santander 
and Mr and Mrs W to engage more  fully to try and reach a solution. And for Mr and Mrs W to 
seek independent advice, and give Mrs W more time to sort out her situation. 
Santander agreed. It said it would encourage Mr and Mrs W to seek independent financial 
advice. And it would be happy  for them to explore their options with Santander.
Mr W provided more  information about  their circumstances, which  he says have improved. 
Thats good  news.  Ive taken what hes said into account in writing  my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN93125062Mr W says hes been making payments for some  years and can afford to continue  to do so. 
Hed like Santander to remove  his parents  from the account, switch all of the mortgage  to 
repayment and extend the term. Santander declined, saying its concerned about 
affordability. 
Theres some dispute here about what happened. So Ill start by setting out what  I think 
happened, based on the evidence provided  by Mr W and Santander.
Mr and Mrs W and Mr Ws parents took out a joint mortgage in late 2005  for £160,000. The 
term of the interest  only part of the mortgage expired in December 2018. 
Mr W applied  for a repayment mortgage  in his own name in March 2018.  Santander said that 
was affordable. However, Mr W didnt proceed with the application. 
In early 2019 Mr W contacted Santander  again. He wanted  to apply for a joint mortgage with 
Mrs W. 
The mortgage application didnt proceed  as, based  on what  Mr W told Santander about 
Mrs Ws financial circumstances, it seemed  unlikely  Mrs W would pass  Santanders credit 
checks. She had debt that she couldnt  pay and was trying  to sort out a debt management 
plan. From what Mr W has said, Mrs Ws situation has since  improved.
Santander also said it was concerned  that withdrawals from the linked savings account could 
indicate financial problems. Money was withdrawn  from the linked savings account, including  
about £6,700 in 2018 and £4,300 in April 2019. Mr W says he had to either withdraw the 
money or reduce the mortgage balance, and chose  the former. He says the withdrawals  
dont mean  hes in financial difficulty.  I agree that isnt the only possible explanation. But I 
can understand why Santander thought  the withdrawals could be a sign of possible financial 
difficulties. Mr W hasnt said what he used the money for, or why it wasnt  used to reduce the 
mortgage balance.  
Mr W says theres  a lot of equity in the property. However, Santander still needs to check  
that repayments are affordable. 
Mr W says hes been solely responsible for payments for some years, and hes made 
overpayments, which shows  a repayment  mortgage  is affordable.  Ive looked at the 
mortgage statements. In both December 2017  and December  2018 the balance was about  
£119,000. In December 2019  the balance was about  £117,000.  And in April 2020 the 
balance was about £115,000. Id note here that part of the mortgage is on a repayment 
basis, and so the overall balance should be reducing. While Mr W made overpayments,  the 
withdrawals from the linked savings account  had the effect of cancelling  these out. I dont 
think its fair to say Mr Ws track  record in itself proves a repayment mortgage  is affordable.
Did Santander treat Mr W fairly?
Santander was concerned  about a repayment  mortgage being affordable for Mr and Mrs W. 
However, Mr and Mrs W arent new borrowers.  They already have a mortgage  with 
Santander. They want to make changes to help them repay  the loan they already have, 
without having  to sell the property.
Ref: DRN93125063The rules  of mortgage regulation say that Santander doesnt have to carry out an 
affordability assessment  if the loan pre-dates April 2014, theres  been  no additional 
borrowing since April 2014 and the transaction is in the customers  best interests. 
That doesnt  mean Santander  cant assess affordability  only that it doesnt have to. I dont 
think it would  be right for Santander to refuse  changes to the mortgage solely due to 
affordability, if its otherwise in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests. But I think  its reasonable for 
Santander to look at whether Mr and Mrs W can afford a repayment  mortgage as part of 
assessing whether  the proposed changes are in their best interests. 
In fairness, I must also take into account that Santander has a right to expect its money to be 
repaid, as agreed when the mortgage  was taken out.
There were four borrowers on the account.  Im sorry to hear that one of Mr Ws parents has 
recently passed away. Each borrower is jointly and severally liable for repaying the 
mortgage. By asking  Santander to remove borrowers from the mortgage,  Mr W is asking 
Santander to give up one of its potential routes to repayment of the debt. And Im mindful  
that the term of the interest  only part of the mortgage has expired.
Nonetheless, Santander was willing to consider an application from Mr W  and potentially a 
joint application from Mr and Mrs W  for them to repay the mortgage over an extended 
term. But Santander has to lend responsibly,  and its reasonable to carry out checks. Despite 
what Mr W has said, he hasnt made  significant in-roads into repaying the interest  only part 
of the mortgage  over the last few years. Mrs W has outstanding debts that shes  in the 
process of repaying,  so its reasonable to assume  she cant  contribute  meaningfully to 
mortgage repayments, at least in the short term. While other family members are on the 
mortgage, theyre also liable for it  whereas if theyre removed Mr W would, in effect, carry 
the risk alone.
Mr W said his parents  hadnt had have any financial involvement with the property or 
mortgage payments  for more than 10 years. I understand what he says. But based on the 
information I have,  I dont think its clearly in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests  for other  
borrowers to be removed from the mortgage  account. So I dont think  I can fairly say that 
Santander should have offered a term extension to Mr and Mrs W (without other  borrowers) 
on the basis it was in their best interests,  despite  any concerns it had about affordability. 
I understand Mr Ws frustration that he was told he could  afford  a mortgage in his sole name, 
but he cant afford a joint mortgage with Mrs W. Nonetheless, Santander assessed a 
repayment mortgage in Mr Ws sole name  as affordable in mid-2018. Mr W says their 
circumstances have  improved. So I think theres  scope here for a frank  and open discussion 
about what options could be available. 
In his response to my provisional decision Mr W said Santander was initially sympathetic 
and constructive about their difficult circumstances, but this hadnt continued. He says 
Santander didnt  act in their best interests and it hadnt told him that it didnt have to carry out 
an affordability assessment. Its right that Santander  doesnt have to refuse changes to the 
mortgage solely due to affordability, if its otherwise in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests. But it 
can still carry out an affordability assessment, and I think its reasonable to do so when 
considering whether a proposed change (such as switching to a repayment  mortgage or 
removing borrowers) is in their best interests.  
Ref: DRN93125064I think Santander could  have engaged more proactively with Mr and Mrs W about their 
options. So I think it should now allow time to engage fully with them.  This will also give 
Mr and Mrs W time to seek independent  advice, and give Mrs W more time to sort out her 
situation (which would also put them in a better  position to re-mortgage  elsewhere if thats 
what they ultimately do). 
Ive thought about what a reasonable amount of time would be, given the unusual 
circumstances and uncertainty created  by the Covid-19 pandemic.  The regulator has said 
lenders shouldnt start or recommence possession action before the end of October 2020, 
and the parties  should certainly  use this time to discuss a way forward. In the circumstances, 
I think it would be fair if Santander shows forbearance for longer than this and holds  
possession action until May 2021,  as its agreed to do.  
Id encourage  Mr and Mrs W to get in contact with Santander with a view to discussing their 
situation and exploring their options. And, when they do, Santander should bear in mind  it 
has to consider what would be in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to exercise forbearance 
and hold possession  action until May 2021.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9312506