K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt  refund her money  straight away when  
she made a direct debit  indemnity claim and then gave  her incorrect information.  She 
complains she had to make a number  of calls whilst  abroad, and wants  her call costs  
refunded.
background
Miss P phoned Barclays to ask them to recall a direct debit payment. Barclays  said that it 
was too late to recall  the payment but that they could make  a direct debit indemnity claim 
which it then did. Barclays said the process  could take up to 12 working days  minimum. 
Miss P said shed done indemnity claims  before,  but she had not had to wait for her money.  
Barclays said that this claim had been  sent for investigation as there had been a number  of 
indemnity claims on her account. 
Three days later, Miss P phoned  Barclays for an update and was told her indemnity claim 
had been rejected. Miss P was unhappy  her claim had been rejected and that no-one could 
explain why. So she complained. Miss P was told her complaint would be looked at in 48 
hours to 7 days.  
Over the next five days, Miss P made  a number  of calls on her mobile phone from abroad to 
Barclays to discuss her indemnity claim and her complaint.
Barclays sent Miss P their reply to her complaint and agreed that theyd  made a mistake  in 
describing the indemnity claim as rejected, when they actually needed more information. 
They offered  Miss P a payment of £75 as compensation for the inconvenience.
Miss P wasnt happy with Barclays  offer of £75 saying it was less than the cost of the calls 
shed made  chasing her claim and complaint. Miss P complained to us saying Barclays  had 
caused her to be stressed while on holiday  and financially penalised. 
An investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and thought that Miss P had chosen to call 
Barclays a number of times before the 12 days indemnity investigation processing time had 
passed. She thought that it would  not be fair for Barclays to pay for those calls as Barclays 
had told Miss P how long the investigation  into the indemnity claim would take and she had 
called back before the time Barclays had given.  She agreed  that Barclays service had fallen 
below the required  standard as theyd incorrectly recorded the indemnity claim as being  
rejected. Miss P was, as a result, given incorrect information which had caused her 
additional stress. Our investigator thought Barclays offer of £75 compensation was fair given 
the additional stress caused.
Barclays agreed with the investigators view, but Miss P didnt. She didnt think our 
investigator had understood her complaint, which was that Barclays had misadvised  her that 
her claim had been rejected, as a result  of which shed had to make  several  expensive  
calls from abroad. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have not upheld  the complaint and I will 
explain why.
Ref: DRN91970832Barclays explained to Miss P that the indemnity claim investigation could take up to 12 
working days minimum. During the call, Miss P said the timescale was fine as the claim had 
at least been lodged.
Three days after the claim investigation started, Miss P called Barclays to find out what was 
happening to her claim. I understand why Miss P called - she wanted the money  back  in her 
account as quickly  as possible as the extra payment  meant she was tight for money.  
Had Barclays told Miss P that it was still investigating her claim and it needed  more  time to 
do so, then Miss P wouldnt have  had cause to complain. Thats  because  Barclays  had told 
Miss P that her claim could take 12 working days minimum  to investigate  and its fair that 
Barclays should have  enough time to check if there had been an error. But thats  not what  
happened. Instead, Barclays  told Miss P that her indemnity claim had been rejected. I agree 
with Miss P that this makes a difference because telling her that her claim had been rejected  
 which  in fact was wrong  made  her anxiety worse.
To make matters  worse  still, Barclays couldnt at the time explain why the claim was 
rejected. So Miss P complained, and rightly so. Barclays told Miss P that the complaint 
would be looked  at in 48 hours to 7 days. 
Miss P made a large number of calls to Barclays as a result of Barclays wrongly recording, 
and describing,  her claim as rejected. But in doing so she overlooked the complaint 
deadline given  to her.
I do think it would have  been better  if Miss P had given  Barclays  enough time to investigate  
before ringing back about her complaint. That would have  meant she wouldnt have incurred 
the high call costs  she has - she knew the calls were  expensive  as she mentioned  this 
several times. So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Barclays  to refund the call costs. It 
would have been better if Miss P had waited a few days  - particularly  as she was returning to 
the UK in a few days.
I agree  that £75 compensation  for distress  and inconvenience is fair in the circumstances. 
Miss P has confirmed to this service that she has received the £75 payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint and I am asking Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to do nothing  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2019.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9197083