K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2003.
The policy cost was likely  to be no more than £1.00  per £100 Mrs M owed on her store  card. 
The policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month if Mrs M 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also 
provided life cover as well as price  and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs M says the policy  was added without her 
knowledge or consent.
FICL says Mrs M took out the PPI over the phone.  Due to the time that has passed  since the 
sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising.  
So I cant say for certain what was said to Mrs M during that phone  call. But from what  we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL would 
have asked Mrs M for her agreement to add the policy to her account.  
Mrs M had already had the card for several  months before the PPI was added. So when the 
charge for the PPI would  have started  to show on her monthly statements, if she didnt know 
what this amount was for and hadnt  agreed to taking out the cover,  I think she would have 
raised this sooner than she did. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mrs M chose  to take it out, knowing  she could refuse  it if she didnt want it.
Both parties  agree that FICL didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M and, as I havent seen 
anything to make me think otherwise, I think thats likely to be right. So FICL didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need to make sure it gave Mrs M clear 
Ref: DRN96720642enough information about the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she should take the 
policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs M 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.
From what  she has told us, Mrs M would have received at least  three months pay from her 
employers if she was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness. But this policy  would have 
paid out until she returned to work or until the outstanding balance was repaid  whichever 
came first  and this would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any sick pay 
she may have received.  And it would also provide cover for the same length  of time if she 
was to lose her job. While Ive noted she did have some savings, by having  this policy she 
could have protected those funds or used them to help cover other essential living 
expenses. So I think this policy could have provided  a useful benefit to her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs M has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9672064