K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS)  has unfairly 
invoiced her for refurbishment charges for damage  to a car that was handed back  when  she 
voluntarily terminated  the finance agreement.  
background
In January 2015 Mrs W entered into a three year hire purchase agreement for a used car 
with VWFS. Under the agreement  Mrs W was responsible for any deterioration of the 
Vehicle which  is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of 
the Vehicle. 
In September  2017 Mrs W arranged  to change the car and take out a new agreement so she 
asked VWFS to voluntary  terminate (VT) the agreement. When  Mrs W went  to collect her 
new car she left the original one at the dealership.  Mrs W says the dealership told her the 
car was in good  condition when she handed it over. 
However, VWFS said it hadnt  received Mrs Ws completed VT forms until November 2017  
and it was only then that it had written  to Mrs W confirming that the agreement had ended.  In 
that letter VWFS also told Mrs W that it had instructed an independent  company to inspect 
and collect the car. VWFS advised  that if the car didnt meet  fair wear and tear criteria,  as 
set out in the BVRLA guidelines,  then she may be required to pay an additional sum. 
The letter further  said that a copy of the report would be provided to Mrs W and should she 
choose to have  the remedial work carried out by an approved repairer, this should be done 
prior to the collection of the vehicle.
The car was inspected at the end of November 2017 and report  was prepared with 
photographs. Damage was found in the form of a dent and scratch  to the bonnet which  was 
considered outside fair wear and tear. 
Mrs W hadnt been present at the inspection and didnt receive a copy  of the report  prior to 
the car being  collected.
In December 2017 an invoice for £165.60 was sent to Mrs W by VWFS as a refurbishment 
charge for the dent.  Mrs W complained to VWFS about the invoice. She said that when she 
had left the car at the dealership it had been in good  condition and that since it had been at 
the dealership  from September the dent could have  occurred while there.  She said that she 
hadnt been told that the inspection was going  to take place nor had a copy of the report 
been provided to her.
VWFS said it would pass Mrs Ws complaint about  the damage possibly happening at the 
dealership back  to them. It also said it would provide feedback to the independent  company  
that it hadnt told Mrs W about the inspection date or sent her a copy of the report. But 
VWFS said it wasnt upholding her complaint about  the invoice. It said it had reviewed the 
damage found on the car against the BVRLA  guidelines and had found that the dent had 
broken the paint surface which meant it was outside  fair wear  and tear. VWFS said Mrs W 
had been properly invoiced.
Mrs W was unhappy at VWFSs decision and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint should  be upheld. She said she accepted there  
was a dispute about when  the damage had occurred but there  was no evidence  to say for 
Ref: DRN94565112certain when it had happened. Our adjudicator  said she had to make a decision on what  was 
more likely and she didnt  think  she could reasonably  say the dealership was at fault.
Our adjudicator said that although Mrs W had left the car at the dealership in September  
2017 VWFS  hadnt been aware  of that as it hadnt received the VT forms. VT wasnt  
processed until November  2017 and the car had been inspected around  three  weeks later.  
Mrs W had remained  responsible for the car until VWFS took it back under  its ownership and 
the agreement  ceased.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the photograph of the dent, and consulting the BVRLA 
guidelines, she was satisfied it was beyond would be considered  fair wear and tear and that 
VWFS was entitled to charge for the damage.
Mrs W said that she had signed all the VT forms in September when shed handed  the car 
back to the dealership. It was only when shed received some correspondence  in November 
that she had discovered  there had been an issue with the VT. She queried why she hadnt 
been provided with a copy of the report or an opportunity to undertake the repairs herself. 
And also queried the timeframe in which VWFS  had to inspect a vehicle at the end of an 
agreement.
Our adjudicator responded that according  to the notes made  by VWFS on Mrs Ws account  
the VT form wasnt received until early  November 2017. And as the car was at the 
dealership at this point  the independent  company would  have liaised  with the dealership  and 
not Mrs W regarding the inspection. She said there were no timescales set out in the terms 
and conditions. The only timescale given was that the independent company  says it will 
make contact within five days once an agreement is ended to make  an appointment to 
inspect the car. The adjudicator said she didnt think the car being  inspected within four 
weeks of the VT was unreasonable given that the company had to contact the dealership  
and arrange the appointment.
Mrs W disagreed  with our adjudicators view. She said that VWFS had an obligation  to tell 
her about  the charges and give her an opportunity to rectify them  which it hadnt. Mrs W said 
she had signed  the VT form around  September 2017 and not in November 2017. 
Mrs W also said that her interpretation of the terms and conditions  was that they said if the 
car was returned in a state  not considered of good  repair by VWFS then it would notify  her of 
that within 10 days after the vehicle is returned . She said this meant there  had been an 
unreasonable delay in her receiving the invoice in December 2017.
Mrs W said she had done all that the dealership had asked  of her and that VWFS had 
deviated from its obligations set out in its own terms and conditions. She believed  VWFS  
had acted unreasonably in levying  the charge against her for the damage  to the cars 
bonnet.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has provided some further email correspondence regarding the VT form to end her 
agreement with VWFS. This shows that the dealership contacted  Mrs W in October 2017 
Ref: DRN94565113enclosing a copy of the VT pack for her to complete. She says her husband forwarded them 
on to VWFS  in early October 2017.
However, I think from the evidence, that Mrs Ws agreement wasnt treated by VWFS  as VT 
until the start of November 2017. This was when VWFS wrote  to Mrs W informing her that 
the agreement  had ceased  and Ive also seen that her last payment under  the agreement  
was taken at the end of October  2017.  While I appreciate that Mrs W may have signed  and 
sent the forms in earlier  than November  I think its reasonable  not to consider an agreement  
has been ended until that has been confirmed by the business. So this would mean that Mrs 
W handed the car to the dealership when she still had responsibility  for it.
I appreciate that Mrs W was relying  on the dealership, having done everything she was 
asked to do by them, when she handed the car back and took out another agreement  but I 
cant reasonably  say that VWFS is responsible for the actions  of the dealership.  It shouldnt  
have taken the car until VWFS had confirmed that the agreement  had been ended.
Under the agreement  Mrs W is responsible for damage or deterioration of the car which is in 
excess of fair wear and tear. There is no timeframe  set out in the agreements  terms and 
conditions though I accept it would be unfair and unreasonable  for an invoice to be sent out 
to a consumer  significantly after the date of inspection.  However,  here the invoice was sent 
out around one month after the agreement  had VT. And I dont think  that was an excessive 
delay or that it was to Mrs Ws detriment.
Mrs W says that there was no damage when she handed the car to the dealership which it 
confirmed to her. However the dealership didnt have VWFSs  authority  to inspect the car so 
I cant rely on what it said. And I think its agreed  that the car had a dent by the time it was 
inspected and that this dent was beyond fair wear and tear.
Mrs W says that due to the delay  in having the car inspected damage could have occurred 
while it was at the dealership. Ive no evidence of how the dent was caused but where  
evidence is missing or contradictory I have to decide  what  I think is the most  likely thing to 
have happened. Looking  at the photograph of the dent it appears unlikely it would have 
occurred while it was with the dealership given it would have been parked  up whilst there. I 
also think its unlikely the car wouldve been used by the dealership as it was waiting  to be 
inspected and collected. Looking at the timeframe from when the agreement was VT to the 
time the car was inspected Im satisfied that the dent is likely to have happened  while  the car 
was Mrs Ws responsibility.
Ive seen that the expected VT process didnt run as it should have done had Mrs W kept the 
car. She wasnt informed  of the inspection date nor did she receive a copy  of the report.  Ive 
seen the inspection was agreed  and signed by the dealership. Mrs W says this was unfair 
and prevented her from being able to have  the damage repaired herself.
But I dont think that not being  present at the inspection was of significant disadvantage  to 
Mrs W such that it would be unreasonable or unfair  for her to be invoiced for any damage  
found. I accept had she been present then she wouldve been  aware  of the dent and could 
have declined to sign the report but this wouldnt mean that VWFS couldnt still have 
invoiced her for the refurbishment cost. 
I also dont think I can reasonably say that the late receipt of the report  has placed Mrs W at 
a significant disadvantage. I accept she lost the opportunity to arrange her own repair  but 
had she done  so this wouldve still incurred a cost for her. All repairs are required to be 
Ref: DRN94565114undertaken by approved garages with a warranty provided for the work. And I think its 
unlikely that a dent of that nature wouldve cost less than £165.60 to have been 
professionally repaired.
So looking  at the evidence I dont think VWFS has acted unreasonably in invoicing Mrs W for 
the damage to the car and Im not upholding her complaint. Mrs W can still complain to the 
dealership separately  if she wishes to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  17 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9456511