K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1994.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
Mrs M says she bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
Mrs M says PPI was added to her store card account without her knowing about it and it 
wasnt discussed with her at the time.  FICL say it wouldve made it clear to Mrs M that she 
didnt have to buy a PPI policy  and it would have got her consent  before adding the 
cover to her account. Where theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most likely  to have happened  taking into account  all the 
evidence thats  available.
Neither party has been able to give me any information to show  me how the PPI was 
presented to Mrs M  but this isnt surprising or unusual given how long ago the policy  was 
sold. Mrs M has been able to give me the first statement that was issued to her and it has 
PPI on it, so I think it more likely that PPI was sold to her when she took out the card.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has said about the sale  in that she didnt realise 
the cover  had been added. But for me to be able to agree with what Mrs M has said,  I have 
to think it more likely that someone at the store deliberately added the cover without her 
knowing about it. And although I agree this is possible, I dont think  its more likely.
The PPI was on Mrs Ms monthly statement  so had she not wanted the PPI or didnt know 
it had been added to her account, I would have expected her to question this at the time.
Its hard for me to know how FICL made  Mrs M aware  that she had a choice in buying  a 
policy. But it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint  on the basis. There  is no 
requirement for FICL  to keep application  forms or any other documents  for as long as Mrs M 
has had this account. And so I cant fairly  say she wasnt given a choice at the time.  I 
appreciate that Mrs M has said that she doesnt  think she was given a choice, but memories 
can and do fade with time. 
Ref: DRN93637272So on balance, I think  it more likely  FICL made  it clear to Mrs M that she had a choice in 
taking PPI  and I think she chose to take it.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. So it didnt  have to check it was 
suitable for her. But it did need  to make  sure it gave her enough information about the cover 
so she could decide for herself if she wanted to buy it.
I dont know exactly what information Mrs M received about the policy  at the time of sale. 
But even if I accept  she wasnt  given clear enough  information about the policy,  I dont think  
this wouldve  affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons  Ive explained below.
I think it likely that Mrs M was eligible  for the policy and she doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things  which  may have made it difficult  for her to make a 
successful claim   such as a pre-existing medical condition.  She told us she was 
employed and in good health. Mrs M says she would have got some sick pay if she was 
away from work due to illness.  Shes also said her parents  could have helped  her make 
repayments to the card if she had to stop work  unexpectedly. But this PPI policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Mrs M might have got. The help of Mrs Ms 
parents couldnt  be guaranteed, and they may not have  been in a position to help her 
when needed.  This PPI policy  would have helped her reduce her reliance on her parents, 
so I still think she could  have found  the policy useful.
Based on my knowledge of how FICL  presented  the cost of the policies, Im not satisfied it 
would have made the cost of the policy clear enough  for Mrs M to understand what the real 
cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything  into account, I think if Mrs M had 
properly understood the cost and benefit  provided she wouldve  thought  the policy  
potentially useful.
Overall, I think it likely that FICL didnt do everything it needed to when it sold the policy to
Mrs M. But I think it likely she knew  she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she 
would still have taken  out the cover if shed been  properly  informed  about  it.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
Mrs M has said she was in secure  employment  so wouldnt have taken the cover.  But 
employment isnt guaranteed to be secure.  And the PPI was designed to protect the risk of 
unforeseen circumstances. So the cover could have been useful  to her if shed lost her job.
Ref: DRN93637273Mrs M has made comments in response to our adjudicators view about the assumptions 
made when  investigating her case.  Id like to reassure Mrs M that when coming to my 
decision, I have  used all of the evidence  available to me  including what  both her and FICL 
have told us. Because I wasnt  at the sale, and it happened  so long ago, I have to think 
about what I think was most likely to have  happened  and what I think Mrs M would have 
most likely have done at the time.  And having  thought about  this very carefully, while  taking 
into account what Mrs M has told us about  her circumstances  at the time, I cant  agree that 
this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9363727