K822xcomplaint
Mr C, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains about  the suitability 
of investment advice  given to him in 1994  and 2000  by Lloyds Bank Plc.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint,  a copy  of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In it I explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld, at least 
in part, in respect of the advice given in 2000.  
In brief,  I felt that this £3,200 investment into an ISA, although in funds  similar to those Mr C 
had invested in before, took him up to a very high level of investment. Along with his existing 
investments the new recommendation  meant that 80% of his capital was at risk and he was 
left with only around £8,000 on deposit. 
Given he was older  at this point  and had caring responsibilities, this struck me as too much 
being invested, putting Mr C in a position  that was too risky.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  accepted my provisional view, so Im upholding the complaint.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Lloyds do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN92895522investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
2000 ISA 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
I understand the ISA has been surrendered but if that is not the case the end date should 
be taken to be the date of settlement.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr C would have invested  only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in the attached provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold 
the complaint  and direct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay compensation  to Mr C as set out above. 
Ref: DRN92895523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
James Harris  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92895524COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr C, represented by a claims  management  company (CMC), complains about the suitability of 
investment advice given to him in 1994  and 2000 by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
background
The two recommendations in question involved  placing £5,000 into a PEP in 1994 and just under 
£3,200 in an ISA in 2000. Both investments  were into low/medium risk funds, quite heavily  reliant  
upon equities.  
Mr Cs CMC felt that his circumstances  over the period in question didnt suggest  that it was suitable  
for him to take that level of risk with his capital. It highlighted that around the time of the first 
recommendation hed been in his early 50s and had taken early  retirement  as a result of some health 
issues. He was also responsible for the care of a family member.  
After Lloyds  had looked into the matter it became apparent  that Mr C actually had a reasonable 
amount of investment  experience.  Hed invested prior to 1994 and continued  to make further 
investments up until the 2000 ISA. At that time the fact find indicated that along  with the 1994  PEP Mr 
C was holding around six investment bonds. And their current value was around £40,000.  As such, 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our adjudicator agreed with Lloyds, concluding that the recommendations had been suitable for Mr C, 
consistent with his likely attitude to risk and affordable for him. 
The CMC didnt agree.  It accepted that Mr Cs investment experience suggested he was inclined to 
take some risk with his money. But it still thought that given the nature  of the funds in which the PEP 
and ISA were invested the advice was unsuitable and that Mr C should be compensated by way of a 
comparison with a low risk, rather than no-risk, benchmark.
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to a different conclusion  to that reached 
by the adjudicator and Ill explain why. 
I think  its fair to say that Mr Cs CMC  acknowledges  that in the face of the number  investments hes 
made over the years  he clearly wasnt a novice and wouldve likely understood the recommendations 
made to him in 1994 and 2000. 
But that said,  Im not convinced that both recommendations were suitable.  Im less concerned with the 
advice to invest  £5,000 in 1994. Mr C, as noted,  was a reasonably experienced investor  and hed just 
received a lump sum of money, around £23,000.  As such, I dont think  investing  £5,000 of this into an 
equity-based fund was wholly unsuitable. I accept that it was the largest  single amount hed ever 
invested. But that was a result of receiving  the lump sum. 
However, in 2000 the £3,200 investment into the ISA, although in a similar  fund, took Mr C up to a 
very high level of investment. Because of the other investments hed made in the interim the new 
recommendation took him to a point  that over 80% of his capital was invested and he was left with 
only around £8,000 on deposit. Given he was older  at this point and had his caring  responsibilities,  
this strikes  me as too much  investment putting Mr C in a position that was too risky. 
Ref: DRN92895525As such, I dont think  this recommendation shouldve  been made. I think  that better  advised Mr C 
wouldve retained  a larger amount on deposit.  So I think Lloyds should  compensate him by comparing  
the performance of the ISA with that of fixed rate bonds,  our usual  no-risk benchmark, and if this 
shows a loss it should  be paid to him.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded to 
uphold the complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation to Mr C as set out above. 
James Harris
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN9289552