K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr J bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint because:
 I think Lloyds made  Mr J aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because  the credit  agreement  described the PPI as an 
optional feature and provided both a yes and a no box to tick. And Mr J ticked  the 
box to indicate  he wanted it.  
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr J, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. He was entitled to some sick pay, 
savings and redundancy pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for 
longer. So it wouldve  left his employee  benefits and savings available for other things. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr J doesnt appear  to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Js comments,  including what  hes said about  being made to think  
that having PPI would improve his chances  of his credit card application succeeding.  But 
these points dont  change my conclusion. Ive found that the credit  agreement made clear 
the PPI was optional. So I dont think Mr J could reasonably have thought  it was compulsory 
 and he hasnt  suggested that he did think this. He appears to have kept the PPI long after 
the credit  application  was approved. So that makes me think there was some  other  reason 
why he took it out, rather than  or as well as  because he thought it would help him get the 
credit card. Perhaps  that was the other benefit he says he was made  aware of at the time  
that the PPI would help protect  his payments.  So even if he hadnt thought it would  improve  
his chances of getting the credit card, I think he still wouldve taken the PPI. 
Ref: DRN97974322my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9797432