K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the 
time, mis-sold them  payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policies in around 1998,1999 and 2002  at the same time as taking 
out a mortgage and later, two further advances. Due to the time that has passed, its not 
clear how Mr and Mrs H applied for their mortgage and first PPI policy.  They  applied  for the 
first further advance and PPI policy taken in 1999 in branch. The PPI policy  sold with the 
second further advance was taken  out over the phone.
Its not clear who the first policy provided cover  for. But the second and third policies both 
provided cover for Mr and Mrs H. The benefit  was split evenly for accident,  sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to some  exclusions  and limitations. The first policy  offered to repay  
£386.75 a month towards Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage balance in the event of a successful 
claim. At the time, it cost £22.71  a month.  The second policy offered to repay £78.06  a 
month and cost £3.75 a month.  The third policy offered to repay £169.58 a month and cost 
£6.50 a month.  All of the policies also would have paid an additional sum of £3 for every  
£1,000 of the original mortgage or loan balance.
At the time of all three sales, Mr H was employed as a team  leader. He told us he could not 
remember whether he would have received any sick pay or not and he didnt have any other  
means of repaying  their mortgage or further advances should he be unable to work. Mr H 
has said he was in good health at the time of all three sales.  
Mrs H was employed as a support worker at the time of each sale. She told us she was 
entitled to at least three months full sick pay, redundancy pay and death  in service benefit  
from her employer. But she didnt  have any other  means of repaying  their mortgage. Mrs H 
has told us about  a medical  condition she experienced  some years before the sale, but she 
was otherwise in good health.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
Ref: DRN90023212The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
The first and second sales took place  around 1998 and in 1999  before the General  
Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published  its code of practice in June 2000 and before 
the sale of general  insurance products like this became regulated  in January 2005. So, the 
GISC Code,  the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance 
conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The third sale took place in 2002  before  the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN90023213The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
For the 2002 sale in particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General 
Insurance Code  for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
And for all sales, The Association  of British Insurers General Insurance  Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN90023214Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
The first sale took place a long time ago, so neither  party has been  able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need  to decide  what I think  is most  likely  to have happened 
when the PPI was sold.  
Over the years, weve seen a number of Lloyds cases involving various methods of sales  
from around the same period Mr and Mrs H would have been  sold her PPI. Using  what  I 
know generally of Lloyds sales practices  at the time, I think  its more likely  than not Mr and 
Mrs H would have been given an option  to take out the PPI.
In 1999 and 2002, Mr and Mrs H completed separate application  forms for their PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take them  out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN90023215did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it would have provided  advice  during  all three sales. Mr and Mrs H havent been 
able to confirm  this. But giving advice puts more responsibility on Lloyds, so in fairness to 
Mr and Mrs H, Ive considered the case as though  advice was given during each sale.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policies were appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meetings or phone call, the documentary 
evidence suggests  that Lloyds took some steps to establish whether the policies  were  a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. The adviser had information about some  of 
Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage and further advance 
applications. But although  a demands  and needs statement was completed  to try and 
establish whether  Mr and Mrs H had a need for the policies  by asking  questions  about their 
wider circumstances  such as any health issues  I dont think it did enough  to ensure the PPI 
was suitable. For example,  theres  no evidence Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs H about  their other 
means.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policies  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  and further advance repayments  would  have been  
put under  strain if Mr and Mrs H were  not working for an extended period of time  
even allowing for the employee benefits  Mrs H says she would have been entitled to.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policies  Mr and Mrs H would only have received 
limited sick pay if they were unable to work  due to illness,  their redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and they didnt  have any savings  they could fall back on. The 
policies would have  helped Mr and Mrs H manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs H 
were unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
Ref: DRN90023216-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mrs H has told us about a medical  condition she experienced  three times some years  
before the sale. But this doesnt  appear  to be caught by the policies limitations and 
exclusions because it didnt reoccur within the first 24 months of the cover. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policies (including: the any 
similar gainful occupation condition, the requirement that Mr and Mrs H be disabled 
or unemployed for 60 days  before they could make  a claim and the fact the policies 
would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policies still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policies 60-day qualification  period)  and the limits to those provisions, 
which mean the policies could play an important  role after those  provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs H be unable to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Lloyds was recommending to them  and make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr and Mrs H were unable to work through accident, sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion because  I think 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have taken  out the policies without any sense  of what the 
policies were for and of how much the premiums  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policies it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs H all of the 
information they needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN90023217Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mr and 
Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found  that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN90023218Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage and further advance 
payments in the event they were  unable to work because  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment, they concluded  they wanted  that product on each occasion. But they made 
their decisions  based on incomplete information,  meaning what they thought they were  
getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policies, it doesnt  appear  Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the policies. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs H would 
have been told the cost before the policies started and they paid for the policies for a number 
of years,  so if the costs were significantly  at odds with their expectations  at the point  of the 
sales, its possible they might have raised that with Lloyds at the time,  or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the costs unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figures during  the meeting or phone  call in which they agreed to 
the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs H would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly  different to what  the policies actually did 
 if anything, it is more  likely than not that the policies  actually  paid more  in the event of a 
claim than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms  that 
Mr and Mrs H knew about or ought  to have known  about  before the start date of the 
policies and which occurred or re-occurred during the first 24 months; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr and 
Mrs H werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs H be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their training, 
education or ability reasonably qualified them to do;
Ref: DRN90023219The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policies 
werent as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them. Mr and Mrs H were eligible  for 
the benefits and they provided cover  that, despite their limitations and exclusions, couldve 
proved valuable to them  should  the insured risks have become a reality Although Mrs H says 
she had a recurring medical condition some years before  the policy was taken out, the 
policies didnt exclude cover for existing medical conditions  if they didnt reoccur  during the 
first 24 months of the policy, so based  on the dates Mrs H has given  us, she would not have 
been affected by this. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  Mr and Mrs H wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So I still think  they had some good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs H would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policies without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job, any similar  job, but also any job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably 
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into their thinking about what  they would have done. 
And I accept  it may have  given them pause  for thought  although  its possible they may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr and Mrs H were unable  (through disability) to 
carry on their own occupation the chances that they would  be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policies. The policies allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mrs Hs sick pay or redundancy money 
for other use.
Ref: DRN900232110Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr and Mrs H were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs H would  have taken out the policies in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN900232111Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Lloydss statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met between 1998 and 2002 when providing information  about an 
insurance policies.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 September 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9002321