K822xcomplaint
Mrs B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  hasnt refunded her enough 
under her motor policy when an accident was deemed to be non-fault by the court.
background 
Mrs Bs husband, a named driver on her policy was involved in an accident in 2016. The 
other driver wouldnt admit  it was his fault,  so the matter was heard by a court in January 
2018.
As a consequence, Mrs B temporarily  lost her No Claims Discount (NCD)  and had an open  
claim on her record. This meant her premiums increased substantially  by £4,000 the first 
year and around £2,500 - £3,000 the second  year. She said Admiral  had advised her she 
would get a full refund of all overpaid amounts  should the court case be decided in Mrs Bs 
favour with her NCD being  reinstated.
Mrs B said once she had won the court case, Admiral  only refunded her just over £800, 
which she didnt think was enough.  She also said she was able to obtain  an online quote  of 
£745 with Admiral.
Admiral believed its refund was correct, so Mrs B brought her complaint to us. At that stage, 
Admiral noticed its refund  was actually incorrect, as its system didnt calculate the refunds 
correctly on the reinstatement  of Mrs Bs NCD. Therefore, she was entitled  to a further 
refund of £609.38  for one policy year and £39.74 for the second policy  year. The adjudicator 
was of the view this was now the correct refund, to which Admiral should  add 8% interest  
plus £50 compensation. Admiral  agreed to this.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied as she said Admiral told her she would get a full refund. So her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I upholding this 
complaint to the terms of Admirals final refund figures and Ill now explain why.
There are two issues in this complaint, one is the refund Mrs B was entitled  to when the 
accident was deemed  to be the other drivers  fault in the court case.  And the second is the 
difference in quote Mrs B found on line and her renewal quote.
Dealing with the accident first, as the other driver didnt admit it was his fault the case  then 
went to court. During that time, Mrs Bs NCD was stepped back  and she had an open claim 
on her policy.  This obviously increases the premium. Admiral said she would receive a 
refund of any overpayment if she won the court case. What  was a pity was that Admiral 
didnt explain to Mrs B at the time,  what precisely  would  constitute such  an over payment so 
that Mrs Bs expectations were more properly managed. 
Neither this service nor I can tell insurers what to charge its customers  in premium or how it 
should consider  what  constitutes a risk to be rated.  Thats  a matter for the regulator the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). However,  we do look to make sure Admiral here treated 
Mrs B fairly and didnt  single her out. That means we look to ensure it adhered to its own 
Ref: DRN93600762internal underwriting guidelines so that Mrs B was treated the same  anyone else in her 
situation. That is the case here.  The refund Mrs B finally received is correct and in 
accordance with its underwriting guides.
I am not permitted to share all those calculations with Mrs B as some of the information  is 
commercially sensitive  therefore its not appropriate such  information is put in the public 
domain. And further, our decisions are published. As the adjudicator explained,  most motor  
insurers Admiral included  also rate the risk of having  any accident whether or not it was the 
policyholders fault so the premium would  have been consequently affected in any event.
Therefore, I consider  the extra refund admitted by Admiral after Mrs B brought her complaint 
to us is correct.
Turning now to the renewal premium  quote Mrs B obtained on line in comparison to what 
Admiral quoted for her.
As the adjudicator explained,  there were differences in factual information between  what  
Admiral quoted on and what Mrs B obtained  the quote on.
These were  as follows:
The vehicle value  for Admiral was £41,000 where Mrs Bs quote said it was £35,000.
The registered keeper was changed from a leaseholder  to the policyholder.
The named  driver  had children on the policy but not on the quote.
The voluntary  excess for Admiral  was £250  but for the quote, it was £350.
As the quotes  werent based on the same  facts, I dont consider the fact that Admirals quote 
was more expensive  is unfair. I understand Mrs B is of the view these differences  are minor 
however each insurer is perfectly entitled  to decide how to rate any risks its asked to cover. 
And since there are some significant differences here, theres no evidence  that Admiral  did 
anything wrong  in its quote.  
The incorrect initial refund  caused Mrs B some trouble and upset, which  I consider  warrants  
a compensation  of £50, which Admiral has also agreed.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint limited to the refund 
figures Admiral Insurance Company Limited  has already agreed since Mrs B brought  her 
complaint to us. 
Therefore, I require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited to do the following if it hasnt 
already.
Pay Mrs B the extra  refund  of refund of £609.38  for one policy year and £39.74 for 
the second policy year.
Add 8% simple interest from the date the refund should have been paid to the date it 
refunds Mrs B.*
Pay Mrs B the sum of £50 compensation.
*If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much  its taken  
Ref: DRN93600763off. It should  also give her a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9360076