K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice from Lovewell Blake Financial  Planning Limited
(Lovewell Blake) to switch  pensions and invest in a fund which  he believes performed
poorly and wasnt  in line with his aims at the time.
background
Mr B had four personal pension plans (PPPs) which Lovewell Blake  recommended  he 
transfer into one plan, a self invested personal  pension (SIPP), in February 2016. This 
advice was documented in a suitability report dated  8 February 2016. Mr B had been a client  
of the business since  March 2002.
At the time of advice,  Mr B was 63, married, in good health and retired.  He was able to claim 
his state pension from 2017. Following  the changes to pensions  in 2015, Mr B wanted to 
discuss his options  regarding his existing pensions and allowing access to his funds in a tax 
efficient manner in the future. His other objectives included releasing £30,000 to purchase a 
new car and repay an outstanding loan on a second property. 
The risk profile concluded  Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) as lowest  - medium. He was a four 
on a scale of one to ten  ten being the highest risk. A later reassessment  concluded  his 
ATR had reduced to three. Mr Bs four existing PPPs were held with three  providers. The 
charges ranged  from 1.23% pa to 1.85%  pa.
Lovewell Blake recommended  that Mr B transfer  all four pensions  to the Standard  Life 
Wealth Target Return Managed Portfolio Service 2 (MPS2). The transfers took place  
between February and April 2016.  The total amount  transferred was £425,342. The initial  
charge of £5,800 was applied on the transfer. The plan commenced  on 27 February  2016  
and the equivalent charge of the new plan was 1.87%  pa.
In early November 2018 Mr B complained  to Lovewell Blake  about  the advice to transfer  his 
PPPs and invest in a single fund. He said the adviser was aware of his concerns about 
having all his eggs  into one basket, given Mr Bs experience with his previous pension  
provider, Equitable Life. 
Mr B said hed transferred  a total of £425,342 and between April 2016  and August 2018 hed 
expressed concerns  about the MPS2 fund as it was losing value when equity markets 
seemed to be very strong.  When hed agreed  to switch his pension funds into MPS2 he 
thought it had a link to the equity markets albeit with mechanisms  to smooth volatility and 
that it wouldnt lose value  when equity markets were  rising. He didnt think  the fund was 
consistent with his lowest medium ATR. 
In response to his concerns fund switches had been undertaken. The adviser had said in 
November 2018  that the SIPP  was now invested  in three different funds, to provide greater 
diversification in different  market conditions. Mr B said, had that approach been adopted in 
2016, his fund wouldnt have fallen significantly in value. As at 2 November  2018  his fund 
value was £412,994.  
Mr B said he wanted compensation for the difference  between  what  hed got between April 
2016 and August 2018 and what hed have  earned if hed had best advice and taken out a 
more appropriate  product.  Mr B had calculated that to be £32,482.
Ref: DRN91178212Lovewell Blake didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said he was a lowest medium  risk investor  
and hed wanted a portfolio of investments offering no or very limited losses. The MPS2 fund 
combined different  investment ideas to create  an investment that avoids exposing investors 
to market changes.  It targeted a return of LIBOR (London Inter Bank  Offered Rate)  plus 2% 
after charges over a rolling three  year period. It was suitable for investors aiming  to reduce 
the element of risk associated with a more direct and specific  investment within stock 
markets. Lovewell Blake maintained the MPS2 targeted fund solution  matched both Mr Bs 
risk and loss tolerances. 
Lovewell Blake said that what had happened  with Equitable Life was different. And it didnt 
agree it was appropriate to compare the performance of MPS2  with the FTSE 100. The latter  
had a 100%  exposure to equities whilst  MPS2 only had a limited exposure to stocks and 
shares. Lovewell  Blake referred to fluctuations in the FTSE 100. MPS2 didnt match  the 
upside of the FTSE 100 but Mr B wasnt exposed  to its falls which was consistent  with his 
investment objectives  of none or only very limited  losses.  It was appropriate to remain  
invested in MPS2 for an initial period as it had a target of six months LIBOR plus 2% 
annualised over a rolling three year period. Lovewell Braces  research in recommending  the 
fund showed a 97% success  rate in achieving that. 
Mr B remained unhappy  and asked us to look into his complaint.  
The adjudicator who dealt with the complaint  thought  it should  be upheld.  He said the fund 
recommended in 2016 and the more recent  alternatives were  broadly in line with Mr Bs 
ATR. But the adjudicator didnt  think the transfers were necessary or that a drawdown  
arrangement was necessarily suitable for Mr B given that he was a cautious investor. The 
adjudicator said Mr B should have been  advised  to keep his existing PPPs. But as he 
couldnt say exactly  how Mr B would have invested  he suggested redress  was calculated 
using a benchmark  for half the investment the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income Total 
Return Index and for the other half the average  rate from fixed rate bonds.
Lovewell Blake didnt  accept the adjudicators view. It referred to what the adjudicator  had 
said about the funds being  suitable and in line with Mr Bs ATR. On that basis  it didnt think  it 
should pay compensation for a performance  related loss. It didnt agree that the transfers 
were unsuitable.  Mr B had wanted capital growth  from his entire portfolio and not just his 
pension with a small risk to his capital  he wanted  limited tosses to his capital.  He wanted to 
use his assets  in his and his wifes  lifetime  and then to able to pass to his and his new wifes 
children free from inheritance tax (IHT). Moving his four pensions into one offered  new 
flexibility and inheritability which  is what Mr B wanted at the time. 
The costs  were higher  than his existing schemes and could have been reduced by 
recommending an alternative provider or alternative  fund solutions. But the provider was a 
stable, major provider offering a multi-asset cautious fund and a market-leading product. The 
costs and charges  were  clearly stated. Mr B was told the charges would increase. 
The adjudicator noted that two of the PPPs allowed flexible access whilst the other  two were 
of a type set up in order to provide annuities. In addition, the four PPPs varied  in terms of 
how any uncrystallised benefits could be passed to the beneficiaries in a tax efficient 
manner. This was partly due to changing IHT rules. 
Documentation provided from late 2015 and early  2016 showed  that Mr Bs objectives  in 
seeking advice  were to access  some  immediate capital  in a tax efficient  manner, have the 
Ref: DRN91178213option of flexible access to his pensions  and to mitigate any IHT liabilities regarding  his 
accumulated wealth. In the adjudicators view the advice met those objectives.  
The capital requirement was met with using the investment bond.  The adjudicator noted that 
Mr B preferred flexibility in taking  benefits from his PPPs. He didnt require an immediate  
income, such as a guaranteed annuity.  In addition, his wife was making arrangements  to sell 
a property, the rent from which supplemented their income. And in doing  so this income 
needed replacing. By transferring Mr B retained  the ability to take an income whilst leaving 
any uncrystallised funds  to be passed on upon  his death. In the adjudicators view, it was 
right to look at combining Mr Bs four existing PPPs in an appropriate SIPP.
The other objective was to take steps  to mitigate any future IHT liabilities  which might have 
impaired Mr Bs ability to pass on his accumulated wealth  to his wife in the event of his death  
and then to the five children on his wifes death.  The existing arrangements  didnt allow the 
same level of succession planning  that the new arrangement provided. And the total value of 
over £400,000 was effectively taken out of the estate by transferring it into a SIPP.  
About what  Mr B had said about fund performance, the adjudicators view was that the 
MPS2 fund was appropriate for Mr Bs low/medium risk investment approach and limited 
capacity for loss. The investment was managed by a single provider but she didnt agree it 
represented putting all your eggs in one basket. The adjudicator noted it aimed to spread 
risk with a range  of assets actively  managed in order to mitigate losses  in any particular 
asset class. The fund also included regular rebalancing and avoided  the need  to hold 
significant cash (or similar) assets. 
The adjudicator considered that the charges  for the SIPP were marginally higher than the 
aggregate of Mr Bs existing arrangements. But she was satisfied the charges were 
disclosed at the time and werent conditional  on a target investment return. Overall Mr Bs 
aims were achieved in effecting the switches to the new plan.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed suffered stress  and anxiety.  He was disappointed  with the 
time taken  and that hed received two adjudications with different outcomes. The adjudicator 
emailed Mr B to further explain her view which she wasnt persuaded to change.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that its taken longer than wed have liked to reach  this final stage of our process. 
And Im also sorry that Mr B has received two different views from two different adjudicators. 
But, as the second adjudicator explained,  where an ombudsmans decision is requested, the 
case will be reviewed to check that the ombudsman will have all the information he or she 
needs to reach a decision. And sometimes, where that review is carried out by a new 
adjudicator, he or she may take a different view.
I think the second adjudicator has tried to explain why shed reached a different outcome. In 
a nutshell she didnt agree Mr B shouldnt have  been  advised  to transfer. She said the 
evidence suggested  that one of his main objectives at the time was to mitigate inheritance  
tax and flexibly withdraw an income  from his pensions.  His existing  pension  plans didnt 
provide succession  planning and two of them didnt  provide flexible income. 
Ref: DRN91178214I agree  with that. I think the advice to transfer  was justified on those grounds and for the 
reasons the (second) adjudicator gave  in her view. 
Ive considered the fund recommendation. As the (first) adjudicator said,  wed look at fund 
suitability in terms of whether  it was broadly in line with Mr Bs ATR. The first adjudicator  
said the funds  recommended in 2016  and more  recently were  broadly in line with Mr Bs 
ATR.  
I can see why Lovewell Blake didnt agree, based  on that finding, that it should pay 
compensation for a performance related loss. But the point was that if the transfers were  
unsuitable and Mr B should have  retained his existing plans then the investment in MPS2 
would never  have happened. Awarding redress on the basis of what each of Mr Bs existing 
PPPs would have  achieved  in terms of investment growth would have been complicated  and 
involved getting different providers,  against  whom no complaint had been  made,  to carry out 
hypothetical calculations.  On that basis the adjudicator suggested a benchmark  as a proxy  
for the sort to returns that might have been achieved if Mr B had left his existing plans intact. 
But, as my view is that the transfer wasnt unsuitable, that approach falls away.  The second 
adjudicator agreed  that MPS2 was suitable. Again I think thats right. 
I can understand Mr Bs concerns about  the performance of that fund and, in particular, his 
disappointment with the fall in value. But Lovewell Blake isnt directly responsible for how a 
fund performs. Disappointing performance  wont necessarily give rise to a legitimate  
complaint about  fund choice. And fund selection shouldnt be judged with the benefit  of 
hindsight  some funds will inevitably perform  better  than others  which might be considered  
broadly comparable. Further, while a fund may aim to track or outperform a particular 
benchmark, any failure to achieve that wont automatically mean  there must be a problem. I 
also agree  with Lovewell Blake that a direct  comparison with the FTSE 100 isnt appropriate  
given MPS2s limited exposure to equities.
Like both of the adjudicators, Ive looked  at whether Mr Bs ATR and whether MPS2 
matched that. Mr Bs ATR had been assessed as lowest medium.  I dont see any issues as 
to how that had been arrived  at. A lowest medium risk investor  probably  wont want  to ignore 
the possibility  of greater higher returns but will only wish to take a small amount of risk to 
achieve that. But there remains the possibility that a fall in value, which will fluctuate,  can 
occur. Mr Bs pointed  to a reduction  from £425,342  to £412,994. Thats some £12,348 which 
isnt insubstantial.  But its less than 3%. I dont think that sort of fall or fluctuation  is more  
than might be expected.   
Ive looked at how the MPS2 portfolio was described.  Five portfolios were offered. Each had 
a MPS risk rating between 1 (low risk) and 5 (high  risk). All five portfolios were described as 
having the flexibility to invest in a highly diversified range of asset classes  via a range of 
structures including mutual funds, investment  trusts and exchange traded funds. About 
MPS2 the expected risk (volatility) was 5.5% to 8.5%. It was 2 on the MPS risk scale. It was 
designed to provide an income focused  return over the longer term. It is expected to invest  
predominantly in low to medium risk assets. And it seeks to achieve  a competitive level of 
income, the potential  for capital growth  may be limited. It may be suitable  for investors  who 
are prepared to accept a below  level of investment risk.
In selecting MPS2 for Mr B, Lovewell Blake  was, in my view,  entitled to rely on how the 
provider described  the fund.  I think,  from the description, that it was suitable for an investor 
such as Mr B with a low/medium ATR and limited capacity for loss. 
Ref: DRN91178215I note Mr Bs comments about it being  comparable with the Equitable Life situation.  It was 
managed by the provider but it invested  in a range of asset classes and so it was diversified 
in itself. That aimed to spread risk and mitigate losses in any particular asset class. It was 
also actively managed  with regular rebalancing. I dont agree it represented an approach 
that Mr B had specifically  said he wanted  to avoid. 
All in all I dont think MPS2 was unsuitable for Mr B. If theres  any issue  with the fund itself  - 
for example, that it wasnt managed in line with its stated description or objectives or its 
asset mix wasnt suitable for a  lower  risk investment (and Im not suggesting any of that 
applies)  that would  be a matter for the provider. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9117821