K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt give him a loan to pay off his overdraft.  
background
Mr F said that he had a large overdraft with Lloyds. He wanted to take out a loan to pay that 
off, because he didnt  want  to keep paying the monthly fees for his overdraft. But he said that 
Lloyds wouldnt give him a loan. 
Mr F said that hed completed a loan application, which  was declined. Lloyds then completed 
a second loan application, and that was also declined. He said that he isnt in financial 
difficulties, but Lloyds had kept him on the phone for three hours, taking  his income and 
expenditure details,  only to tell him that he has quite a lot of disposable income, and it 
couldnt come to an arrangement with him. He said hed never wanted an arrangement.
Mr F queried  why Lloyds wouldnt make a loan to him, but it had increased his overdraft by 
£1,000 early in March,  and a further  £400 shortly before  he asked for the loan. He thought 
that Lloyds should give him the loan,  to allow him to pay off his existing lending. 
Lloyds said that it had made an appointment for Mr F in branch so he could make a loan 
application, but the branch then phoned him and cancelled  the appointment. It said that it 
had checked,  and it knew a personal loan wouldnt be likely to be available  to him. Hed then 
spoken to the customer  support unit, and it had discussed some alternatives with him, 
including repaying  the money over a year, but he didnt  want to take those options up. Lloyds 
said that decisions made in the branch could be manually reviewed,  so it made an 
application for him. That was declined, it was reviewed, but Lloyds said it still wouldnt give 
Mr F the loan. 
Mr F said hed now had no option but to take out a loan elsewhere, at a high interest  rate. He 
took a loan out in October, which cleared his overdraft. He said that Lloyds  was only doing  
this because it had made  more out of his overdraft than it would from a loan. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Lloyds had shown why it had 
cancelled Mr Fs appointment to discuss a loan, because it said he wouldnt be approved. 
Our investigator said that she thought  that whilst Mr Fs overdraft fees might have been high, 
the lending was affordable for him. She stressed that the overdraft didnt have a fixed  
repayment amount  or an end date for repayment. 
Our investigator said that the team Mr F spoke to when  he was turned down for a loan 
usually helps people  who are in financial difficulties. They can offer short term arrangements, 
up to 12 months. Anything for longer  than that isnt usually considered  a short  term 
arrangement. Mr F had explained  that he didnt want any of the options that the team  had 
offered him. Lloyds  then arranged a loan application  for him, and reviewed it, but wouldnt 
make the loan. Our investigator said that Lloyds may have made  this decision because Mr F 
had made  four overdraft increases within six months  and a cash advance  from a credit card. 
She said that amount of credit  in a short time might indicate that Mr F was becoming  reliant  
on credit.  So she didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to decline a loan for Mr F. 
Our investigator said that Mr F had taken a loan elsewhere, and he wasnt  solely reliant on a 
loan from Lloyds. She understood that Mr F wanted to borrow  the money from Lloyds, but it 
Ref: DRN93340702has discretion over who it lends to, and it hadnt been unreasonable. And if hed borrowed 
from Lloyds he wouldve needed to pay off his overdraft with that loan. Getting the loan 
elsewhere had meant  that he didnt need to do that. He was still sometimes  using the 
overdraft. He could  have that borrowing facility  removed if he wanted to. 
Our investigator did think that Lloyds couldve treated Mr F better. She thought that Lloyds  
branch staff shouldve explained why his appointment  was cancelled, and it couldve been 
clearer in explaining the reasons why it wasnt proposing to lend to him before the 
appointment where he actually made  his application. Because it hadnt  done that, she said 
that it should pay Mr F £100. 
Lloyds didnt agree  with that. It said that it thought  it had provided Mr F with a good level of 
service. It had rebooked  his appointment promptly. It didnt comment  on whether it shouldve 
explained to Mr F in more  detail why it didnt think it would be able to make him a loan.  
Mr F didnt  agree with our investigator  either. He said that he thought the whole  process was 
unfair, and that he couldnt understand why Lloyds wouldnt  offer him a loan but would 
increase his overdraft.  Mr F also said that the multiple applications hed made  for the loan 
affected his credit file, which hes been  trying to rebuild.  He said he felt pushed  into trying to 
make an arrangement with the customer support team, because the branch had just told him 
it couldnt help.  Mr F said that hed borrowed  elsewhere to clear  the overdraft, but Lloyds 
was still willing to lend to him. It was now offering him an overdraft of £250 and a credit card. 
Mr F wanted an ombudsman to consider his case, so this complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr F hasnt  complained about the amount of his overdraft.  So Im not considering  whether 
that lending was affordable for him or not, although I note that when Lloyds looked at his 
financial position, it thought he might have  about £500 spare each month,  which would 
suggest that the overdraft was likely to be affordable for him. 
Mr F says that if Lloyds was prepared  to lend him this much through  an overdraft, then it 
shouldve been  prepared to make a loan to him for that amount, so he could clear  his 
overdraft and replace  it with a cheaper form of borrowing. 
Our service wont usually tell a business that it has to lend money to someone.  So we would 
be unlikely to direct Lloyds to make  a loan to Mr F. I understand that Mr F has now obtained 
a loan elsewhere. But we would consider whether Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably. 
And I think it did. Ill explain why I think that.
Our investigator drew  Mr Fs attention  to recent  borrowing, both on his current  account and 
on his credit card, and said that this could  make Lloyds concerned that Mr F was becoming 
reliant on credit. Because his borrowing had increased quite a lot recently, I dont think, in 
these circumstances,  it was unreasonable for Lloyds  to refuse to make a loan to Mr F. 
Ref: DRN93340703Lloyds did reconsider Mr Fs loan application.  And it did offer other options including  three  
and twelve month repayment  plans. I understand the reasons Mr F gave for not wanting  to 
pursue those. But I dont think that they were  unreasonable offers for Lloyds to make. 
I do agree  with our investigator that Lloyds couldve provided a better  service  to Mr F. I 
agree with her that it wouldve been helpful if Mr F had been  told in more detail the reasons 
why Lloyds had turned down his loan. I think that the £100  that our investigator suggested is 
the right amount to make up for that. 
Mr F said he still didnt  understand  why Lloyds wouldnt  lend to him. I hope Ive explained 
that we cant replace  Lloyds decision on that with a decision of our service.  
Mr F also said that the applications  he made  affected his credit file. But I think that he was 
told, before  he made his final loan application,  that his loan was still likely to be refused. And 
there was no commitment given to make any loan to him as a result  of any review  of this 
decision by Lloyds. So I think  that Mr F knew, or shouldve  known, that there would be more  
than one credit check on his file for this lending, and it still might not be granted. 
I know Mr F will be disappointed, but I dont  think Lloyds  has to do more than our investigator 
suggested.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Banking PLC should pay Mr F £100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9334070