K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the amount AXA Insurance UK Plc has paid to cash  settle his 
buildings insurance  claim for damage caused  by an escape of water.  
background
Mr Cs flat was damaged by a water leak from another flat in his block.  He made a claim in 
October 2017 through the buildings management  company  under  the block  buildings  
insurance policy. AXA accepted the claim and appointed a claims handling company to 
survey the damage  and assess  its liability. Subsequently  AXA appointed a loss adjuster to 
handle the claim  and scope the repairs. There were delays. Mr C complained  to this service. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a final decision in November 2018  upholding      
Mr Cs complaint about the delays in the handling  of his claim and required AXA to pay him 
compensation of £450. 
Shortly before my colleague issued his final decision Mr C complained  to AXA about the way 
itd calculated the figure it was paying him to cash settle his claim. 
AXA had made  Mr C a payment  of £12,750  less the policy excess of £2,500  (so £10,250)  in 
July 2018. Mr C accepted this amount as an interim  payment  and told AXA he had further 
evidence that the amount offered wasnt enough  to complete the necessary  works.  
AXAs loss adjuster looked  into what Mr C had said and increased the offer by a further 
£800. This reflected the additional damage  the loss adjusters  surveyor had said hed seen 
at the last site visit. AXA issued  Mr C with the further  payment. 
About a month  later, in early September 2018, Mr C submitted his own revised  scope of 
works to the loss adjuster.  He confirmed he used construction industry standard pricing data 
to calculate what  he thought the works would cost. He thought  there was a further amount 
due of  £3,152.82. AXAs loss adjuster considered what  Mr C had sent but maintained the 
settlement offer had been correctly calculated. 
AXA looked  into Mr Cs complaint but didnt  think it had unfairly calculated the settlement 
amount. It said its loss adjuster commented  on each  of the items on Mr Cs scope and noted 
what he agreed with and which items were disputed. It sent a copy to Mr C. It paid Mr C 
compensation of £100 in acknowledgment of some further delays  (separate  from those 
which were the subject of the complaint considered  by my colleague).
Unhappy with AXAs decision, Mr C complained  to this service. He said that AXA had offered 
below market rates for the repairs.  He said his scope was taken from acknowledged 
construction industry standard  pricing  data and was fully substantiated. He said AXAs  rates 
were their own.  
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Cs complaint  but didnt recommend it was upheld.  He 
acknowledged that Mr Cs own profession  provided  him with a degree of knowledge about 
scoping for works but said he couldnt  ignore  that AXAs loss adjuster  had clearly  
documented how hed calculated his figures and the rates  used. He didnt think he could 
reasonably say that the calculations Mr C had produced amounted to independent evidence 
which could be used  to challenge AXAs calculations. 
Ref: DRN95107602He also had concerns  about Mr Cs calculations  relating to plastering costs. He said hed 
seen no independent evidence to support why Mr C thought such  extensive re-plastering  
was necessary. This was in contrast to the meterage AXA had scoped for. He said hed 
need to see some independent evidence to justify why so much more  plastering was 
necessary if he was going to reach  a different conclusion. 
Mr C said hed obtain the necessary evidence but in the end was unable to do so. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  its one I can 
reasonably uphold. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr C has experience in producing costings for works in the building  sector.  
But I have to be satisfied   if I am to uphold this complaint  that the scope (and its costings) 
produced by AXA, is unreasonable and that I should disregard it in favour of Mr Cs scope. 
Unfortunately for Mr C, I dont  think the available evidence reasonably allows me to do so. 
Mr C has calculated a shortfall  of £3,152.86 required to complete the works.  But the loss 
adjuster has provided  clear comment on how hes calculated  the figures and the rates  used. 
And I can see that AXA has had its in-house  surveyor review the reports  on Mr Cs property 
and the costings produced by both parties. The surveyor agreed with the loss adjusters 
figures. 
So I have  to balance  the position of the loss adjuster  and the surveyor  against that of Mr C. 
And in doing so, I cant reasonably ignore the potential conflict  between the scope Mr C has 
produced and the fact it relates  to his own property. And I dont think it holds as much weight 
as an independently produced expert  report would. 
Nor can I ignore  that a very significant  proportion of the shortfall relates  to additional  re-
plastering which Mr C says is now necessary. He says that the damp  has spread to a high 
level on the wall such that the whole wall needs to be re-plastered. Consequently,  hes 
calculated the total square meterage that needs re-plastering to be much  greater than that 
allowed for by AXA in its scope. 
Its not unreasonable to think that during the delays in reaching a conclusion to the claim the 
condition of  the flat deteriorated as the damp spread beyond that assessed by AXA. And I 
note that our adjudicator asked Mr C if he was able to provide independent evidence that 
specifically addressed why he thought more extensive re-plastering was required.  
Unfortunately, Mr C wasnt  able to obtain  any such evidence. In the absence of that I cant 
fairly require  AXA to pay Mr C any more in respect of his claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN95107603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9510760