K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr M says Principality Building Society mis-sold him the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr M so Ill 
explain my reasons why. 
Mr M says that he told Principality that he didnt have a need for the cover, and declined  
it on his application  but that he was then told that he had to take out the MPPI as it would 
strengthen his application.
Principality has provided a copy of Mr Ms mortgage  application, on this I can see that 
the MPPI  is presented as an optional product  and Mr M has declined to take it. I cant  
be certain what was said to Mr M to make  him change his mind, so I have to base my 
decision on the information I do have  and theres nothing on the mortgage application 
to suggest that an application for credit  would be looked at more  favourably by taking 
MPPI. And as Mr M already knew  he could  decline the cover, I think  he wouldve 
questioned what  he was being told at the time.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  Principality made it clear that Mr M 
didnt have to take out the MPPI and that he chose to take it out.
Principality recommended the MPPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the MPPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Principality gave Mr M about  the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I think Mr M chose to take it out - it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put him` off taking out the cover. 
This means Principality doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M.
But Principality will pay back  some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M because: 
Principality got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Principality didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN98099232To put that right, Principality has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont change  my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
what the business needs  to do
Principality has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Principality should  also pay back to Mr M any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Principality should  pay back to Mr M the extra  he paid each month  because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Principality should also pay 
Mr M 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Principality Building Society does  not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M.
But Principality Building Society does have  to pay back  to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9809923