K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society made  a mistake when he asked  it to pay 
out the contents of an account held on trust. It wrongly moved money from the account  held 
by Mr P for his younger child, Miss P. 
background 
Mr P had accounts with Nationwide held in trust for each of his two children. He asked 
Nationwide to pay the money held for his older child into that childs  current account, but 
Nationwide moved  the money held for his younger  child, Miss P, instead. 
Mr P realised the mistake  very quickly, but Nationwide  told him it couldnt  just move the 
money straight back, because that account  had been closed. This happened on a Saturday, 
when head office staff werent available to help. Nationwide did offer to move  the money  into 
an account in his name right away, but Mr P didnt want that. He spent the weekend 
repeatedly asking his older child to check if the money was still there.
This problem  has now been  resolved, but Mr P said that this had caused him a great deal of 
stress and inconvenience. It was a large amount of money, and it wasnt  clear  at first 
whether it could be put back  into the same sort of trust account. Mr P said that on the 
Monday, the money left his older childs account, as a cash withdrawal, but a new account  
for his daughter  wasnt opened until Tuesday. The money didnt reappear  until Wednesday. 
And the account  was then converted into the right type on Thursday. 
Mr P said Nationwide  didnt warn him in advance about what  was happening, and he told us 
that worrying about this before it was put right had made him unwell. He said Nationwide had 
then made  further  mistakes, in particular about  the interest on the account he holds for Miss 
P. He sent it a detailed calculation, which he said showed an error of about  £65. 
Nationwide accepted it had made a mistake, and moved money from the wrong  account.  It 
said that it had offered  to move it again, once the mistake was discovered,  so it was in an 
account held by Mr P, but hed declined that. Nationwide  also said that it had agreed to put 
things right on the Monday. It had told Mr P that this would take three working days, and that 
he might  notice changes  in the background while  it was putting things back the way they 
were. Nationwide offered  Mr P £150 to make up for what had gone wrong then. 
When Nationwide first wrote to Mr P, it also included an interest  calculation,  which  it now 
accepts was wrong. It has written to Mr P to apologise for this mistake,  and it offered him a 
further £50, making  a total of £200 in compensation. 
Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. But Mr P didnt.  He said hed spent over 25 
hours sorting  this out. Then a further  20 to 25 hours  dealing with Nationwides  mistake about 
interest. He said hed had to call in a friend  to help with that, and had had to provide a gift to 
thank that person for their time,  which cost him money. 
Mr P said this also caused a deterioration  in his health. And he had wasted a day, which  a 
family member had had to take as leave,  and which the family had planned to spend 
together, because the initial problem took a couple  of hours  in the branch. Mr P sent us 
evidence of pre-existing medical conditions, which could be affected by stress.  
Ref: DRN96811102Our investigator said that he couldnt  recommend that Nationwide  increase its compensation 
on the basis of that evidence,  because  it didnt show the effect on Mr P of Nationwides  
mistake. He discussed  this with Nationwide, and it said it wouldnt pay any more. Our 
investigator didnt  change his mind.  He didnt think that it had been necessary for Mr P to 
spend quite so much time on this complaint. And he didnt think the evidence  showed that 
what Nationwide did aggravated Mr Ps condition, or was the sole cause of it. He still thought 
Nationwide had made a fair offer. 
Mr P spoke to our investigator, and explained  the impact  this had had on him. He said hed 
told Nationwide about his medical  condition  at the start, and he thought that what Nationwide  
had done had caused the worry he experienced. He felt this needed  the time hed spent on 
it, because he didnt  think that Nationwide would put things right itself.  Our investigator didnt 
agree with Mr P so the case was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr P wanted  us to bear in mind  that this case had an impact  on him and on both his children. 
Weve explained  to Mr P that our service  cant consider the impact on his younger  child. And 
weve opened a separate complaint  for his older  child. So that wont form part of my 
considerations here.
Nationwide has accepted that it made a mistake  in this case, its now put things right, and it 
has offered Mr P £200 in compensation. Mr P doesnt think thats  enough, mainly because  of 
the time this has taken,  and impact of all the stress  he was under while the mistakes were 
being put right. I have to think  about  whether Nationwides offer was fair. 
I think it is. Ill explain why I think that. 
I accept that this wouldve been  a very stressful event for Mr P, particularly over the first 
weekend when Nationwide hadnt yet reassured  him about how it could resolve the mistaken 
account closure. Mr P said,  in particular, that he kept interrupting his older childs work to 
check that money was still there. But that makes  me think that some of that stress,  of 
worrying whether the money was still safe, was because he had turned down Nationwides  
offer to move the money into an account in his name  instead.  So not all of the stress that Mr 
P experienced as a result was Nationwides fault.
I do think that Nationwide then sorted  out the account closure problem in a reasonable 
timescale. I know that Mr P wanted daily updates from Nationwide  while  this was happening, 
but I think it had told him that it was going to sort this out, and it had warned him that things  
might change whilst that happened. I dont think that it was reasonable to expect Nationwide 
to ring Mr P every day, over the working  days it took to sort this out, to tell him in advance 
what was going  to happen.  If Nationwide  not doing  that caused  Mr P additional  stress, then I 
dont think thats  Nationwides  fault.
Mr P then said he had to enlist the help of a friend to set out what Nationwide had got wrong  
in calculating interest on the account. He said he spent a further  20 to 25 hours  on this, and 
he bought that friend a gift. Like our investigator, I think that it was Mr Ps choice to do that, 
and I wouldnt expect  Nationwide to reimburse  Mr P that money. 
Ref: DRN96811103Mr P already  had an illness, in which hes told us stress plays a part. Hes shown us medical 
evidence of this pre-existing condition. And he says that what  happened  made  this much 
worse. But he hasnt  shown us any evidence that this got worse  as a result  of what  
Nationwide did. Without that evidence, Im not able to safely  conclude  that what Nationwide 
did made Mr P ill, in a way that he wouldnt otherwise have  been.
I do accept that Mr P found this very stressful.  But I dont think thats all Nationwides fault.  
Ive considered his complaint carefully, and taken account of all the issues  hes raised with 
us, including  lost time for a family outing,  and the concerns he now has as a result  of 
needing to tell his younger child about her trust account. But I dont think  that I can fairly 
attribute all of the impact  that Mr P has told us about, to mistakes  that Nationwide made.  So, 
overall, I still think that what Nationwide has offered in this case provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr Ps complaint.  And thats  what Ill award.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  must pay Mr P £200 in compensation. 
Nationwide Building  Society can count towards  that amount any compensation it has already 
paid to Mr P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9681110