K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about Qmetric Group Limited  in respect of a house  
insurance claim they made following a water leak.
background
There was a leak which Mr S reported  to Qmetric on 15 December 2017. He was told to get 
the leak fixed and that reinstatement work would follow.  On 22 December  2017  Mr S told 
Qmetric the leak had been fixed. It was 9 January 2018 before a drying  company was 
appointed and drying began on 12 January.  A surveyor then visited Mr and Mrs Ss home  to 
assess the damage on 23 January 2018.  
The surveyor recommended that an asbestos test was carried  out. This was done and the 
(negative) results were received in early  February.  On 13 February it was confirmed that the 
property was dry. After  this discussions took place about settlement. 
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy about  how the claim had progressed though and complained  to 
Qmetric. Qmetric issued a final response on 2 March 2018.  It apologised for any upset that 
had occurred as a result of how it had handled  the claim. Mr and Mrs S complained  to this 
service. They later told us that a settlement  offer had been made but it didnt seem  to be 
enough. Qmetric told us that the claim settlement hadnt included  VAT  that gets paid later 
once a policyholder shows that VAT costs  have been incurred.
 
Our investigator felt that Qmetric had caused  some delays which  had resulted in frustration 
for Mr and Mrs S. Qmetric agreed  to pay £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs S werent minded 
to accept this and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as payment  of VAT is concerned, I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to pay this until 
a policyholder shows such is due. If Mr and Mr S have had the work done and they wish to 
claim VAT or show that the work has cost more,  even  taking the as yet unpaid VAT into 
account, then they should  send proof of their outlay to Qmetric so it can either  assess this or 
forward it on to others  as appropriate for this to be done. 
Qmetric has told us that it is responsible for handling  claims made  under this policy.  It 
accepts that some delays  occurred on this occasion. From the timeline Ive seen,  and 
summarised above, I think the claim could have been compressed, particularly at the outset. 
And Im mindful that better communication with Mr and Mrs S might have alleviated some  of 
their frustration too. Im satisfied that £100  compensation  is fairly and reasonably  due.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Qmetric Group  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £100  
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Ref: DRN94404622Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9440462