K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI). A different building society  sold the PPI  
now part of Nationwide. So Ill only refer to Nationwide in this decision.
background
Briefly:
In 1989 Mr and Mrs L bought PPI around  the same time as taking out a mortgage. Due to 
the passage of time Nationwide cant say how the sale took place  and Mr and Mrs L cant 
remember either.
The policy provided  protection for Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage payments in the event Mr L (it 
was in his sole name) couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. The 
policy would pay out for up to 12 month  per claim  and it appears that it cost around  £20 a 
month at the outset  (I will address this later on.)
At the time of the sale Mr L was employed.  Mr L hasnt said whether he was entitled to any 
sick pay. But Mr and Mrs L say they had savings  and couldve relied  on family to help them 
with their mortgage payments. Mr L said he was in good health at the time.
The mortgage account ended in 2000.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said there wasnt  
much evidence available.  But they said the evidence Mr and Mrs L had provided showed the 
policy was a condition  of the mortgage and they couldve chosen a different mortgage  if they 
didnt want PPI. They said there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for 
them in any event.
Mr and Mrs L disagree, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr and Mrs L were  hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasoning  is set out below.
Mr and Mrs Ls main  complaint is that they were  told or led to believe they had to have PPI 
to get the mortgage. Theyve said:
This was all done as one process with the mortgage application and was sold to me as 
being needed to be able to take out the mortgageI  was given literature, presented  with a 
mortgage and I signed where I was told.
Ref: DRN94871502In response to the adjudicators assessment where they said there was limited  evidence 
from the time to fairly conclude things went wrong, Mr and Mrs L provided  some more 
information. They said:
Please find attached a copy of a letter dated  25 November 1988 where Nationwide  extols 
the virtues of the cover. As per this letter, actually to qualify for the mortgage 
schememortgage cover needed to be effected. At no point is it indicated that the cover is 
optional: the cover is being sold as going hand in hand with the mortgage.
This information Mr and Mrs L have provided is important. I say this because,  coupled  with 
the other information  Nationwide has provided, Im satisfied  that PPI was a condition  of the 
mortgage Mr and Mrs L took out. So Mr and Mrs L are right in their understanding  of things.  
But I dont think Nationwide acted  unfairly or unreasonably  I think  they made the condition  
clear.
Around the time Mr and Mrs L took out PPI, it was not uncommon for lenders to offer 
discounted or special mortgage rates on the condition that, to take advantage of the rate a 
customer also had to take out one (or sometimes more) of its insurance products  for 
example PPI. And so long as the lender made  it clear this was the case, in my view there 
was nothing unfair about this practice.
Looking at the letter Mr and Mrs L have provided  from Nationwide  sent to them in 1988, it 
appears that this is what Nationwide  offered Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L had already submitted their mortgage application at the time they received this 
letter from Nationwide. Looking at the application  I can see there was nothing  about PPI 
recorded here and nothing  to say what interest rate / choice of mortgage Mr and Mrs L had 
made at this point.
Turning back to the letter, I can see that in addition to acknowledging safe receipt of Mr and 
Mrs Ls application it said:
Your application  can be considered, should you prefer, under the Special Offer for new 
borrowers scheme. To qualify for the schemeMortgage Cover  should be effected.
The letter then set out the reduction in the interest rate Mr and Mrs L could receive under the 
special offer  a reduction of just under £30 a month from their mortgage  payment 
guaranteed for a set period.
The letter then went on to provide a brief outline  of what the PPI was and what  it covered. It 
also said a leaflet about the PPI was enclosed. The letter ended by saying that, based on the 
reduced mortgage payment the PPI cost was just under £20 a month.
Nationwide doesnt  know how the sale of the PPI came about  Mr and Mrs L said they cant  
remember. But at some point after receiving the aforementioned letter, Mr and Mrs L agreed 
to take out the discounted mortgage  and PPI. And the mortgage  offer letter they received 
early in 1989 supports this.
So did Nationwide make it clear  the mortgage was conditional on Mr and Mrs L taking out 
PPI? 
Ref: DRN94871503I think it did. The letter Mr and Mrs L received said that if they prefer  i.e. they had a choice 
- they could take out the special mortgage rate if PPI was also taken  out. The letter  also set 
out the following:
the cost of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage payment  with the discounted rate; 
the duration of the special rate; and 
the monthly cost of the PPI. 
So I think Mr and Mrs L had enough information  to understand that the special mortgage rate 
required to them to take out PPI, and broadly enough information to be able to decide  
whether this particular  mortgage with the PPI worked for them or not in terms of the cost. If 
they didnt want  PPI or they decided the offer didnt work for them overall, they couldve 
chosen a different mortgage.
I accept its possible Nationwide didnt  provide  everything Mr and Mrs L needed to know 
about the PPI policy  itself to make an informed decision   particularly given that neither party 
can say how the sale came about. If Mr and Mrs L had read the enclosed leaflet referred to 
in the letter,  I think this wouldve given them much if not all the information they needed. 
But despite  any possible  failings  by Nationwide, the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong for 
Mr and Mrs L  Mr L wasnt  caught  by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover,  
which might  have made the proposal  less attractive,  and he and Mrs L appear to have  had a 
need for cover based on their circumstances at the time. 
In any event and as I said above, I think Mr and Mrs L had enough  information  in terms of 
understanding the cost differential between  taking out the special  discounted mortgage  rate 
including PPI versus Nationwides normal rate, to decide whether to go ahead  with the 
mortgage and PPI or take out a different mortgage. 
So in light of the above, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ls decision  to take out the mortgage  with 
the PPI wouldve been any different had Nationwide given them clearer information  about 
the PPI policy  itself.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said  including what  theyve said about 
their savings; that they couldve  relied  on family to help them out if things went wrong; and 
that English wasnt  their first language. But this doesnt alter my decision. 
In terms of Mr and Mrs Ls other  means  theyve referred to, as I said above,  I think  they had 
enough information to work out if the discounted mortgage offer including  the PPI worked for 
them. And in terms of English not being their first language  while  this mightve  been  the 
case, Mr and Mrs L clearly felt able to apply for a mortgage, which  in my view is a relatively 
complex financial transaction. So Im not persuaded this is sufficient reason to uphold their 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Ref: DRN94871504Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9487150