K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund money debited to his account 
when he used a cash machine. He says the machine didnt dispense any cash.  
background
Mr B used a cash machine on 31 July 2018.  He says that he wanted  to make a withdrawal  of 
£350 and entered his card and PIN in the usual way. His card was returned  but, he says, no 
cash was dispensed.  
Nationwide is Mr Bs account provider, and it also operated  the cash  machine. It looked into 
what had happened  but was unable  to find any fault with the machine.  There was no 
discrepancy in the cash left in the machine that could be attributed to a problem with Mr Bs 
transaction. 
Mr B referred the case to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He noted  
too that Nationwides records didnt suggest  any problem with the cash  machine and that it 
had balanced.  He didnt recommend that Nationwide  refund the money to Mr B. He asked 
that an ombudsman  review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
The main  issue I have  to decide here is a fairly straightforward one. I have to consider 
whether the cash  machine dispensed the cash correctly as Nationwide  says, or if something 
else happened. 
If cash is dispensed, but not collected, it will be taken back  into the cash machine  and 
dropped into a purge bin, which can then be checked and matched to transactions.  So, if 
the machine had delivered the cash but it hadnt been taken, the purge bin would have  
contained at least  £350. 
Had the machine  failed  to dispense cash at all, the amount of cash in the machine would 
have been more than the records  indicated should  be there. 
Nationwide has shown  that there  was £100 more in the machine than there should have 
been in the relevant period  27 July to 3 August. It traced that sum to two £50 withdrawals, 
which were then credited  to the customers affected.  So it doesnt appear  that there was a 
problem with the cash machine. 
Nationwides records also show that it counted  out seventeen £20 notes and one £10 note 
for Mr Bs withdrawal.  Mr B took his card from the machine at 13:10:40; the cash  was 
presented 5 seconds later and taken 11 seconds after that. Ive no reason to think  those 
records arent accurate,  since there were no other issues  reported with the machine. 
Ive considered whether Mr B might  have thought his cash  wasnt being dispensed but 
simply didnt wait long enough for it. If that happened, someone  else might have been  able 
to collect it. He told us however that there was nobody close  to the machine. Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN93874742however that the machine  did dispense the cash correctly. In the circumstances I dont 
believe it would be fair to require Nationwide to refund it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr B to accept  or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9387474