K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice that he received in 1996 from a business now owned 
by Tilney Financial Planning Limited (referred to from now on as Tilney) to transfer  the value 
of his deferred occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits to a personal pension  plan 
(PPP). Mr S believes that he was given inaccurate information about the returns he might 
receive and argues that he has suffered a loss as a result.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on           
25 October 2018. A copy of this document is attached to, and forms part of, this my final 
decision. In this I noted that the business file on this sale could not be located. I also 
commented that the return required  to be achieved on the transfer value  after transfer to 
match the benefits from the scheme was relatively low. This meant  that at the time of the 
advice to transfer there would have been considered  a good chance that on retirement after 
transfer the benefits would be greater than those provided by the former employers OPS.  As 
a result I stated that I was minded to reject the complaint.
Mr S did not agree  with the conclusion that I had reached and argued  in his response  that 
the transfer should never have gone  ahead as the benefits provided  by the OPS were very 
generous.
In response to my provisional decision Mr S argued:   
The main point of his complaint was about  the advice that he had received to transfer  
out of the OPS. It was not about  the investment performance of the assets  that his 
policy held.
He has provided  all of the evidence that he has from the time of the sale.  He has not 
held anything back.
The critical yield was not considered by the adviser at the time of the advice to 
transfer.
His understanding was that if a firm cannot provide a file they have no case. Whilst 
the advice  was given  by a business bought by Tilney the issue is that there is no file 
now and hence  the firm has no defence.
The benefit from the OPS was in respect  of 9 years service  and would have  formed 
a significant part of his overall  pension provision.
He was not an experienced investor  and he was relying on the advice of his adviser.  
Finally Mr S thought that it appeared that the final decision had already been  reached. He 
was disappointed as he understood that the Financial Ombudsman Service  was there to 
protect individuals who had been given  poor advice in the past. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN92709902I should acknowledge the fact that a major issue with this case is that there is no business  
file from the time of the sale in 1996.  This is because the sale was arranged by a business 
that was later acquired by Tilney. In my experience the liabilities for any sales  arranged by 
the former  business  would normally remain with the former  business.
I must stress  that the Financial Ombudsman Service operates impartially when resolving 
complaints. It does not take sides and it does  not act as a consumer  champion.  I have 
reviewed all of the submissions that the parties have made in reaching this my final decision.
I note that in 1995 before the transfer from the former OPS had taken place Mr S received a 
letter from the scheme administrator notifying  him that the basis for calculating transfer 
values out of the OPS had been changed and that this had led to a significant increase  in 
the amounts being offered  to members.
Mr S had deferred benefits in the OPS  that would have been payable  from the scheme  
retirement age of 60. The transfer value offered of £13,510 was in respect of almost 9 years 
of pensionable service.
In February 1996  there is a copy of a note from Mr Ss new employer stating that in lieu of 
the transfer of £13,510 it could offer him a service credit in the new scheme of 3 years  and 9 
months service on benefits payable  from age 65. This offer was then discussed with Mr S 
who then rejected it. The low level of service credit  that was offered by the new scheme  
reflects the fact that Mr S had a significant  increase  in pensionable salary  between leaving 
his former  employer and joining the new employer. 
In my opinion the fact that the new scheme  was only willing to offer 3 years and 9 months  
indicates that it would have been expected at that time the benefits from the former OPS 
were not going  to represent a significant  proportion of Mr Ss overall pension provision.
It is recorded that Mr S decided to invest the transfer  into a Personal  Pension Plan (PPP) 
because of:
The flexibility that this offered.   
The ability to retire  after age 50 (now  only from age 55).
The ability to select assets  with a higher degree of investment risk.
The sum involved would provide  only a relatively  small proportion  of Mr Ss total 
expected benefits  in retirement.
There is no evidence that any of the reasons set out above were  queried by Mr S. In 
particular there is no evidence that the statement about the benefits representing only a 
small part of Mr Ss expected overall pension provision was queried.
Transferring from a final salary OPS to a PPP involves  the acceptance of the investment 
risks by the policyholder. Under  the OPS the benefits are guaranteed but under the PPP the 
actual level of benefits will depend  on future  investment returns and future annuity rates.
The higher  the rate of return that the PPP has to achieve to match the benefits that would  
have been provided by the OPS the greater the risks that an individual  may receive lower 
benefits on retirement. 
Ref: DRN92709903If a generous transfer value is offered by the OPS in lieu of the deferred pension  benefits 
then the required  rate of return to match the benefits that have been given up would be low.
In this case the required rate of return has been determined  by independent experts  as 
being 7.7 %. As I set out in my provisional decision, at the time of advice to transfer this 
would have been considered low. 
I note that at the time of advice to transfer pension providers  were required to use standard 
assumed future rates of return of 6%, 9% and 12% when providing illustrations. This would 
have indicated that the transfer value offered was relatively generous  and it would have 
been expected that at that time the benefits on retirement after transfer  would have been 
greater than the benefits from the OPS. This was not however guaranteed.
It is disappointing that the rates of return achieved on the PPP after transfer have been lower 
than was expected and it is this fact combined  with the fact that annuity rates are now much 
lower than expected  that has meant  the expected gains after transferring have not arisen. 
This could  not have  been foreseen at the time of advice.
I also note that as part of the industrywide  pension review the regulator set down investment 
returns that should be used by providers  when determining  redress when mis-selling was 
found to have arisen. These rates varied both over the term to retirement and over time.  In 
the circumstance of this case a rate of return of 10 % was set down by the regulator  to be 
used when determining  redress.  
In the circumstance the transfer value offered by the OPS would have appeared attractive  
and it would have  been expected that the benefits  on retirement after transfer would be 
greater than the benefits from the OPS. However  as I have stated above this was not 
guaranteed.
Having reviewed the file afresh and the new comments made by Mr S I have not been 
persuaded to change  my mind. In my opinion the advice given to transfer in 1996  was not 
unreasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Tilney  Financial  Planning  Limited and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN92709904Copy of Provisional  Decision dated 25 October 2018
complaint
Mr S has complained  about the advice  that he received in 1996 from a business  now owned by 
Tilney Financial Planning Limited (referred to from now on as Tilney) to transfer the value of his 
deferred occupational  pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a personal pension plan (PPP). Mr S 
believes that he was given  inaccurate information about the returns he might receive and considers 
now that he has suffered  a loss as a result.
background
In 1996 Mr S met an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to discuss what  to do with the 
deferred pension  benefits  that he had accrued  in a former employers OPS.
There is very little information available  from the time but it is apparent that the adviser
stated that having carried  out extensive calculations  the advice he was giving was to transfer into a 
PPP.
The adviser  stated:
Thank you for being able to keep your interest up last night when I had to go through  the 
somewhat lengthy procedure which  is now required  when  looking at the implications behind  
a decision on whether to effect a pension transfer or not. Having done  a significant  amount 
of analysis  with regard to your situation, I am personally  happy about  the course  of action I 
believe that you should take. However,  I believe it would be useful to have the answers to 
the questions I wished you to raise with your own company, regarding  a transfer from your 
previous scheme, into that run by your current company. This will ensure that we have  left 
no stone unturned  in terms of my analysis!
Unfortunately Tilney has not been able to locate any of the paperwork  that was produced at the 
time of the transfer. Mr S has stated that he was never given any copies of work that was done by 
Tilney.
Tilney has previously argued that the complaint  has been made outside the time limits allowed 
in our rules and therefore  could not be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
This issue was addressed  by another ombudsman  in a decision issued on 26 July 2017. In this 
decision the ombudsman decided that this complaint was one that the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service could investigate. I have reviewed the issues regarding whether the complaint has been 
submitted within the time limits  allowed and I have reached the same conclusion as the earlier 
ombudsman and for broadly the same reasons.
An adjudicator then considered the merits of the complaint. In her view dated 23 August
2017 she concluded that the complaint should  be upheld as there was no evidence to 
support the advice to transfer.
Tilney has pointed out that the transfer was completed in 1996  by a business  that it later acquired. 
Tilney has argued  that the transfer only covered a short period of service and that Mr S was happy 
to take a risk with the benefits that would  be payable  after the transfer. Tilney states that it has no 
doubt that Mr S was made aware of the benefits that he was giving up and the projected benefits  
that would be payable  after the transfer  .
Mr S has said that he did not receive any paperwork  at the time of the sale and relied on the 
adviser.
Ref: DRN92709905As agreement has not been reached the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is always  very difficult  to investigate complaints about pension transfers that took place  over 
20 years ago where there is no paperwork  available from the time.
I therefore arranged for the deferred benefit statement (that is available)  to be sent to external 
actuaries to determine the critical  yield that was needed to match the benefits  that were being 
given up. These calculations showed that a rate of return of 7.7% was required to match  the 
benefits that were being given  up.
I then compared that required rate of return with the rates of return  that were  being  used in 
illustrations of projected pension benefits at that time. The assumed rates of investment growth 
used in illustrations in 1996  were 6%, 9% and 12%. The critical yield that has been determined  
would have indicated  that the transfer value  was reasonable for the benefits  that had been given 
up. This would mean that there was a high chance,  that on retirement after the transfer, the 
benefits from the PPP would be greater than those that would have been  payable from the OPS.
In addition  I have considered the rates of return that were set down by the regulator  for determining 
redress where pension misselling was deemed to have occurred. For the circumstances of this case 
a rate of around  10% was to be assumed. It would  therefore  have been considered that the transfer 
value represented fair value for the benefits that were being given up.
I have then looked at Mr Ss attitude  to risk. There are unfortunately no records of any discussions 
that took place in 1996 but I note that Mr S was investing his funds in a number of equity 
investments. Mr S had over 30 years to go before  his retirement and the transfer was in respect of 
9 years pensionable service.  This transfer was not going to represent the majority of Mr S pension  
provision and the funds he invested in do not appear to be unreasonable for someone in his 
position.
I therefore have concluded that the advice to transfer  was not unreasonable at the time that
it was given.  It would have  been expected that the benefits on retirement  after transfer would be 
greater than the benefits that would have been provided by the OPS. However this was not 
guaranteed.
It is disappointing that the investment returns achieved  since the transfer have been lower  than 
expected and this combined with the fact that annuity rates are now much lower than was 
expected has meant that the expected gains from transferring have not arisen. This outcome  
would not have been foreseen at the time of the advice  to transfer.
I have seen no evidence that Mr S was given any misleading information at the time of the 
transfer. There is nothing to show that Mr S was told that future  investment returns  were  
guaranteed. In my opinion any illustrations that were provided at the time of advice would have 
clearly set out that future investment returns were not guaranteed.
I therefore consider that the advice to transfer was not inappropriate in the circumstances  of this 
case.
.
my provisional  decision
I minded to reject  this complaint against Tilney Financial Planning Limited and to make no award.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN9270990