K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001. Mr D 
says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he didnt know the PPI was optional and he was led to believe  it was necessary to 
obtain a mortgage with YBS. But I think YBS made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember  this 
now. I say this because  Ive seen a copy of a separate PPI application form which was 
signed by Mr D. This shows that accident and sickness cover  was selected and a 60 day 
waiting period was chosen. So I think its likely  there was a discussion about  PPI where Mr D 
chose what type of cover he wanted  and signed to agree to it. Ive also seen a copy of the 
mortgage offer which states you have chosen  to take out mortgage  payment insurance.  
And although I dont  know  what exactly was discussed, from the documents  available  from 
the time Ive not seen anything that suggests  the policy was compulsory. 
Recently Mr D has said he was pressured  into taking out the PPI. But he hasnt told us what 
happened to make him feel pressured and I havent seen any evidence to support what hes 
said. So I cant fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint  on this point.    
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if the policy was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr D got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr D says he didnt need this policy as he had sick pay from work and also couldve relied 
on his wife. But help from others cant be relied upon as their circumstances can also 
change over time. The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event Mr D was too 
sick to work, and this wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ds sick pay. So these funds wouldve 
been free to use for other expenses. And as the mortgage is likely to have been Mr Ds most 
significant financial commitment, I think having  this policy in place wouldve provided him 
with some additional security. So I still think the policy  wouldve been  useful for him.   
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But YBS will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because : 
Ref: DRN95675722YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  YBS didnt  tell Mr D, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr D any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr D the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr D 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr D any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9567572