K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs H were sold a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage  with Halifax. 
The policy provided  joint cover towards their monthly mortgage payments if either of them 
was unable to work  because  of an accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in considering Mr and Mrs Hs case.  Having done so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
This PPI and related mortgage sale took place over thirty years  ago. So Im not that 
surprised that Halifax doesnt still have copies  of the paperwork which would have been 
completed at the time. Businesses  arent  expected to keep these sorts of records  for such a 
long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs H say that they werent  aware  that theyd been sold PPI with their mortgage and 
so dont think Halifax made it clear they were buying  an optional  product which  was separate 
to their mortgage. And I dont doubt that this is their honest recollection  of what took place 
then. But I do have  to bear in mind that this meeting  happened a very long time ago and 
memories of meetings  like these do tend to fade over such  timescales. And, understandably, 
Mr and Mrs Hs recollection of what  was said to them then doesnt seem  to be particularly 
detailed or vivid now.
In situations like this, where theres  comparatively little information or evidence  available on 
which it would be safe for me to rely entirely,  I need  to decide whats most likely to have 
happened, taking careful account  of everything which  is available  to me. Having done  so, I 
think its most likely  that the Halifax representative  who Mr and Mrs H spoke to at the time 
discussed with them the amount of the monthly benefit they needed and who needed to be 
covered. And I think the representative would  have then obtained their agreement to taking 
out the policy on this basis. 
So, on balance, I think its most likely  that Mr and Mrs H actively  agreed to take the PPI 
policy knowing they had a choice. But I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs H might 
not be able to recall  this now.
Halifax says the PPI policy would have been  recommended to Mr and Mrs H. And Ive taken 
this to be the case because this means that it needed to ensure that the policy was suitable  
for them. I dont know how it did this as theres  no record  of what was said to them  or what 
Ref: DRN98475442information it obtained about  their circumstances at the time. But I dont think  Ive seen any 
compelling evidence  that suggests  to me that the policy was unsuitable.  I say this because:
Mr and Mrs H appear  to have both been eligible for the policy  and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs H dont think they needed the cover  the policy  gave them. This is because 
they say they were  both eligible for sick pay, had a long notice period and could have 
found alternative employment quite  easily in need. But a mortgage is a large financial 
commitment and one where ones  home  is potentially at risk if the monthly  payments  
cant be met. And this policy would  have paid out in addition to any other means  they 
might have  had available at the time and, potentially, for longer than these would have 
lasted. So I think they would have still valued  the extra  security that the policy  gave 
them.
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  be cancelled if it no longer met their needs.
Halifax also needed to ensure that Mr and Mrs H were given enough information about  the 
policy for them to make  an informed decision about  whether or not to buy it. I think that its 
possible that Halifax could  have provided  better information than it did to them. But for much  
the same  reasons as I dont think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think that better 
information would have changed their minds about buying it. I think  theyd  still have thought 
the policy gave  them useful cover at an affordable price.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs H have  lost out as a result of anything  that Halifax may have 
done wrong when it sold them this policy.
Ive carefully thought  about all the points  which  Mr and Mrs H have made in response  to our 
adjudicators view, but these havent changed  my mind about not upholding their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9847544