K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
some time before 2000. Mrs M says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint,  but they thought Lloydss  offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information  
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think its likely that Lloyds made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out. Lloyds doesnt  know when or how the PPI was sold. The PPI is 
shown on Mrs Ms earliest available credit card statement from 2000  so it mustve been 
added before this date.  Mrs M says the PPI was sold to her as part of the package  with 
the credit  card during a branch meeting  the credit card was opened in October 1996. 
Ref: DRN97700742Lloyds has therefore  provided a sample copy of the branch application  form it was using 
around the time of the sale of the credit  card and this shows  customers had to select PPI 
cover by ticking a box  this is also in line with what we have  generally  seen of sales  
made in branch around this time. Overall, I think  its more likely Mrs M bought  the PPI at 
the same  time as she took the credit (like she says). But based on what  Ive seen, I think  
it was made  optional and she agreed to take it out. 
Lloyds doesnt  know if advice was provided but has treated it as an advised  sale.  This is 
because it holds  Lloyds to a higher standard as it means Lloyds  had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her. So, Ive done the same and assessed it as an advised sale. 
The evidence about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example,  Mrs M was eligible for the cover  
and she had limited  means to fall back on, so she had a need  for cover.  
There was nothing about Mrs Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim.  And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect  her ability to claim.  There were  also no additional  restrictions  on cover  
for mental  health  or back problems. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs M as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs M 
would have declined  the cover had Lloyds done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs M would have still taken  out PPI. I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Ms representative has raised  a number  of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value  and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN97700743non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds  should  have disclosed the commission  it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs M was unfair  under section 140A of the Consumer Credit  Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit  share in this case  
I dont think Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings  with Mrs M because  it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mrs Ms representative has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mrs M should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN97700744-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs M in order to remedy the unfairness caused  by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mrs Ms representative suggests,  driven to conclude that she wouldnt  have  
purchased the policy but for Lloydss  failure  to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mrs M paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mrs M 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So, I consider that Lloydss  offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Ms complaint or make  any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN97700745But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mrs M an amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share  paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October  2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9770074