K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  to them alongside  a mortgage in 2004.  
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld because Mrs M was a temporary  
worker and it would have  been difficult for her to be able to make  a claim for the 
unemployment aspect  of the policy. 
Nationwide didnt agree  with that view. As the parties dont  agree with our adjudicator, the 
matter has been  passed to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive upheld this complaint.  Ill explain  why below. 
The first thing for me to establish in this matter is Mrs Ms employment status. I can see that 
she worked for Company A, but was said to be employed as a permanent  temp for 
Company B. The reference to a permanent  temp is set out on the mortgage application 
form. Mr and Mrs M told us that Mrs M was a temporary worker  when  they took this PPI 
policy out. 
I do not consider  it is possible  to be a permanent temp  I would suggest that something 
cannot be permanent  if it is also temporary  at the same time. In its response  to our 
adjudicator, Nationwide said that the logical conclusion to draw from Mrs Ms circumstances 
is that she was a permanent employee  of Company B. I dont agree. I do not think it is likely 
that a business would lend its permanent employees to other companies. Looking  at the 
evidence before me, it seems most likely  that Company B was an agency, which found work 
for Mrs M at Company A. 
So proceeding on the basis  that Mrs M was a temporary agency worker,  I dont  think  
Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for this PPI cover.  I say this because the eligibility  criteria  require  
that Mr and Mrs M had to be employed  on the day the policy started. This term is narrowly 
defined in the policy document as either: 
A permanent member of staff on an open-ended contract; 
A member of staff on a fixed term contract; or 
A self-employed  person. 
As I said above, I dont  find Mrs M was a permanent member of staff and the evidence 
before me doesnt suggest she had a fixed-term contract. On that basis,  it seems  unlikely to 
me that she met the definition  of employed  for this cover and so Mr and Mrs M were  
ineligible for the policy.  
Ref: DRN98925102Even if I am wrong on that point  and Mr and Mrs M did meet the eligibility criteria, I think  
what our adjudicator said in his assessment  was right. Ill explain why below. 
When PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs M, Nationwide had to make sure it gave them enough 
information to decide for themselves whether the policy was a good  fit for their needs. That 
information had to be fair, clear and not misleading.
I can see that the PPI application form was completed after the mortgage  application form. 
So it looks  as though cover was sold after the mortgage. Nationwide  said its unclear 
whether Mr and Mrs M applied by post or after a meeting in a branch.  In any event, if the 
cover was sold in branch,  I think its likely  the information provided  would  have reflected 
what was in the application form and in the policy leaflet. 
I agree  with our adjudicator in that I think it would have been more difficult for Mrs M to make 
a claim for the unemployment part of the policy. Thats because she wouldnt have been able 
to claim if unemployment was a normal incidence in her occupation . As Ive set out how I 
think Mrs M was an agency worker, I think she would have been  caught by this exclusion. I 
think this was a significant  term that should have been brought to their attention. I cant  see 
that it is mentioned  in the application form. And to find out about it, Mrs M would have to 
refer to page 9 of the policy document. I cant see she would have been clearly directed to 
the exclusions in that document from application form. Similarly, if the policy  was sold in 
branch, if the term wasnt clear on the paperwork, I dont think  the person selling the cover 
would have given  it prominence. 
Taking this into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have bought the cover  if they had 
known about this exclusion because I dont think theyd have thought it was good value for 
them. 
It follows then that Ive upheld this complaint and Nationwide will need  to take action to put 
things right. 
putting things right 
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt  been  cancelled  already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. I can see that Nationwide  has 
already refunded some of the commission that Mr and Mrs M paid for their PPI 
premiums. Nationwide  can deduct  what it has already paid from the amount it now owes. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN98925103my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. I require it to comply with the above  putting things right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN9892510