K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr F had a mortgage with Lloyds  from 2002.  Mr F rearranged his mortgage in 2008 and took 
out a PPI policy, which he paid a monthly amount for.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.  
Ive decided that Mr Fs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I think that Lloyds  made Mr F aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. Lloyds  has been  able to give us the documents from the sale of the 
mortgage in 2002 and also the documents from 2008.
In 2002 Mr F completed a mortgage application  form but confirmed he didn't want Payment 
Protection Plus (PPI) at the time.  But Ive also been  given a copy of the Payment Protection  
Plus application  form that he completed  in April 2008 when he rearranged  his mortgage. He 
confirmed he wanted to take the policy and responded to questions  that were  asked about 
his personal circumstances. And I also see that he completed a separate direct  debit 
application form to pay for the PPI.
I think this makes it clear Mr F knew he had a choice about taking the policy. He didnt take it 
in 2002 but chose to take it when he rearranged his mortgage in 2008.  So I cannot agree  
that he was told he had to take it.
I also have to bear in mind that Lloyds has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr F. So it is 
likely that he was told he should take the policy rather  than he had to. As Lloyds 
recommended the PPI to Mr F it had to check it was right for him. And based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think it was. Mr F has told us that he was employed 
but he cannot recall  what employee benefits he would receive if he was too unwell to work or 
was made  involuntarily  redundant.  
In the event of a successful claim,  if Mr F wasnt able to work because  of accident, sickness  
or redundancy, the policy would have  paid his monthly mortgage repayment  for him and 
would have done so for up to 12 months  per claim. It would also have  paid a monthly  cash  
benefit of £3.00 for every  £1,000 he had borrowed for his mortgage. And the policy  would 
have paid out over and above any employee benefits he may have received. So if he did 
receive any employee benefits  they could have  been  used for other  essential  household 
outgoings. 
Ref: DRN97263232Mr F does  recall  that he had some  insurance  but hasnt been able to give me any details 
about that for me to consider. So I cant comment any further about this. My decision is 
based on the information and evidence that has been provided.
I note that Mr F was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments. He had taken on a 
significant financial commitment secured against his home and the penalties for not making 
the repayments were  considerable   even going as far as losing his home. So the policy 
would have provided important protection, at what could have been a difficult time for Mr F if 
he wasnt able to work. 
I think Lloyds could  have  explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But it also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So the policy would have been useful for Mr F if something went  
wrong. And so I dont  think better  information about  the costs would have put him off taking  
out the cover.
Its also possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover  a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example. But Mr F doesnt appear  to have been 
affected by any of those  things. 
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said - including what  he said about being told he had 
to have the policy. But because of what Ive said, these points dont change my decision.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9726323