K820x#14complaint
Miss C and the late Mr M complained that their European breakdown  cover  was mis-sold by 
the Automobile  Association Insurance Services Limited because it didnt cover  them  
appropriately when  they broke down in Europe.
As Mr M has sadly  died since they brought  this complaint, I shall merely refer to Miss C 
throughout my decision.
background
Miss C said she phoned  up the AA to buy this cover in July 2018. She said the agent never 
explained the terms of the cover. She also said she never received the terms and conditions 
in a timely manner and that they arrived a month  later well after she had to ask for 
assistance. Miss C asked for assistance  shortly  after buying  the cover  and she said the 
service wasnt  appropriate, so she complained. As a result of that complaint about the 
assistance, this complaint  about the mis-sale  was then subsequently raised.
The AA said Miss C bought the cover on line not over the telephone and therefore had to 
agree to the terms  and conditions of the policy in order to do so. Consequently it didnt think  
it had done anything wrong.
So Miss C brought  her complaint  to us. The investigator also didnt think the AA had done 
anything wrong. Miss C didnt agree so her complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, all I will deal with in this complaint is whether the cover  was mis-sold or not and 
whether Miss C got the policy documents. I will not discuss  Miss Cs request for assistance  
or whether such assistance was adequate or not as that has been already dealt with by 
another ombudsman.
Its very clear from the AAs file that it shows this cover was bought online on 4 July 2018 at 
10:01am and not over the telephone.  The cost was £351.16 which also included  a 30% 
reduction utilising  an online  promotion code. In order to buy this cover online a consumer 
has to agree to the terms and conditions. Consequently theres  a presumption given the 
online purchase that Miss C was aware of what the terms  and conditions  said or at least  had 
the opportunity  to view them if she had wanted.
As there is no other  evidence (except what Miss C has said) to show this is wrong,  theres 
no reason for me to conclude that this cover  wasnt bought online as the AAs file shows.  
Miss C confirms that when she did receive  the policy terms and conditions a month later they 
were dated  4 July. The AAs file also shows the letters were sent to Miss C on 4 July and 
indeed Miss C did receive them, but again theres  no evidence  to show the AA sent these 
documents late. 
Miss C also said she had to make several  phone calls chasing the documents.  We asked the 
AA to trace these  calls, but it has been unable to find any such calls on its system until 3 
Ref: DRN95800662September 2018. Since it could find calls on 3 September, theres nothing to show  me Miss 
C did make  any calls chasing the receipt of her cover documents.
Miss C complained that the AA took longer than the required  eight weeks to deal with her 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, however  I can see Miss C 
complained on 11 July 2018  and the AA responded  on 3 September  which  shows  it did 
respond within the eight-week  time limit.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9580066