K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms complaint against Paymentsense  Limited  (Paymentsense) is that its 
representative misled  her when she entered into a new contract  with it, causing a 
financial loss to her business.  
background
In September  2017, a Paymentsense representative called in at Mrs Ms business 
premises to enquire  as to her card terminal arrangements  for customer  payments. 
Mrs Ms business was fairly  new at the time, and she was very busy, so indicated  to the 
representative that while she was interested, she wouldnt have the time to cancel her 
existing arrangements. In response,  she says he assured her that she need  only sign 
the new contract,  and that Paymentsense  would take care of any cancellations and 
administration.
On this basis, Mrs M signed a new contract  with Paymentsense. 
In 2019, Mrs Ms end of year accounts were  being  prepared, and she noticed  that her 
arrangements with her previous suppliers  lets call them company A and company B 
(two suppliers are required)   had never been  cancelled. So shed been  paying for them, 
along with also paying Paymentsense and her other new provider. It transpired 
Company A had been paid from October 2017  to May 2019, and company B from 
October 2017 to January 2019.  A duplicate  payments total of £1,483.99.
She complained to Paymentsense, saying she was out of pocket, and that shed been 
assured by its representative when she signed the contract that all the administration  of 
cancelling her existing  arrangements  would  be dealt with by him, and that all she needed 
to do was sign the new contract. She said that if it hadnt been for this she wouldnt  have 
signed up with Paymentsense in the first place,  as she was really busy getting her new 
business up and running and didnt  have the time for unnecessary  administration.
Paymentsense didnt  agree that its representative  would have said that. It said thats not 
how it worked. It explained it did give provision for cancellation of customers  existing 
providers, but that was a specific clause in its contract to pay for any termination fees up 
to £3,000. It said that the fact the existing contracts  hadnt been cancelled  was ultimately 
Mrs Ms responsibility, and that if she could  provide  it with final invoices showing the 
termination fees she had to pay, it would reimburse her up to £3,000. But it wouldnt  
refund her any monthly  payments.
Mrs M didnt  think  this was fair, and brought her complaint to our service.  She explained 
that she couldnt provide final invoices showing termination fees, because as a matter  of 
fact the contracts  werent cancelled. They ran their full course, and such  invoices  
couldnt be produced after the event. Shed asked for them  from her previous suppliers, 
and had been told this. However,  she was able to prove  the monthly payments she 
made to her suppliers, at the same time as paying  Paymentsense  and her other  new 
provider. So as a matter of fact, she could  prove  shed been  paying twice. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and felt that there wasnt enough evidence to make 
a finding that Paymentsenses representative had given an assurance that hed cancel 
Ref: DRN95884802Mrs Ms existing  arrangements. On that basis, he didnt think  she could uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs M didnt  think  this was fair. She re-iterated that she had no idea the original 
contracts hadnt been cancelled. She said shed never willingly  have paid duplicate 
suppliers, and that as soon as she realised  she got in touch with Paymentsense  to ask 
what had happened.
As matters couldnt be agreed, the complaint came to me for a final decision. I reviewed 
the case and disagreed  with our original Investigator. I felt the complaint should be 
upheld, and I explained my provisional decision to both parties, seeking their further  
comments. 
Both sides gave me their further  responses, which Ive taken into account in this final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Paymentsense and Mrs M are both aware, when I reviewed this complaint I took a 
different view to our Investigator, which I discussed provisionally with them  and sought 
their comments. I explained that my role was to evaluate the evidence and reach an 
outcome I felt was fair to both parties.  And that my conclusion was that whether or not I 
could be satisfied that Paymentsenses representative did give the assurances  Mrs M 
says he did, the fact that was she continued to pay four providers, instead of only two, 
didnt seem fair.
In addition, I said I was uncomfortable with Paymentsenses position on how and when it 
would offer a customer a refund. And this was in relation to its contractual  provision to 
reimburse a customers termination fees charged by previous supplier/s. While  I 
understand entirely how this provision was envisaged to work, and how it works in 
practice, I dont think a literal interpretation  of the clause  is appropriate  here. 
This service is an informal alternative to the courts. And, as such, while we can be 
guided by the law in reaching  fair outcomes, we dont necessarily have to interpret 
matters in the same way a court would. 
Paymentsense has told me that it will only refund a customer if it can be shown a final 
invoice from a previous  supplier, with a termination  fee. But Ive explained to 
Paymentsense why, in this case,  these cant be produced. Mrs Ms previous contracts  
werent cancelled,  and therefore  no final invoices  with termination fees were ever 
generated. Instead, Mrs M continued  to pay monthly to the end of the contracts. And Im 
satisfied from the invoices and statements Ive seen  that these fees were paid as she 
says they were.
As Ive already  told the parties  provisionally, Im going to uphold  this complaint, and Id 
like to explain my reasons why. 
The reason  Paymentsenses termination  fee clause exists is as an incentive for new 
customers to change  their supplier  ensuring theyre not out of pocket.  But Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN95884803Mrs M is out of pocket. We can never be sure what was discussed  and agreed  with the 
representative on the day in question, and on that basis I need to decide what it I think  is 
most likely. 
Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Ms version  of events. And Ive been disappointed  at 
Paymentsensess approach in asking  for documentation that it knows  doesnt  exist in 
order to fulfil its contractual  obligations.  Paymentsense says it will reimburse up to 
£3,000 in termination fees. Mrs Ms loss is just over 50% of that. And I dont think  
Paymentsense has treated her fairly  in asking for something it knows she cant  provide, 
especially against a background  where  her story  is at least as credible as its own 
representatives.
For these reasons, I dont  think  its fair that Mrs M remains out of pocket. And I believe 
that in the true spirit  of Paymentsenses  contractual commitment,  it should reimburse her 
for the full £1,483.99 shes been able to prove shes paid for the services she stopped 
using in September 2017.
I also believe its fair that interest at the rate of 8% be added to this figure from the date 
of each payment  until the date of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.  To resolve matters,  Im asking 
Paymentsense to:-
Pay Mrs M £1,483.99,  plus interest  at 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, trading 
as Platinum Beauty,  to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9588480