K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background 
I sent Mr P and Bank  of Scotland my provisional decision on 31 December 2018 explaining 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I said that before making  my final 
decision, Id consider any further information  I received from the parties, so long as I 
received it by 31 January 2019.
Mr P responded to my provisional decision.  He said, in summary, that hes never had PPI; 
that the credit agreement  already had PPI selected; and that I mentioned Bank of Scotland 
had made  an offer but hes not received any sort of offer from Bank of Scotland.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
In response to my provisional decision Mr P has said he never had PPI. But Im satisfied that 
he did take out this PPI. And the fact that he might not have ever had any other PPI doesnt 
change my conclusions,  and the reasons for my conclusions, explained in my provisional 
decision. Mr P has also said that the PPI was already selected on the credit  agreement.  But 
this is something I already  considered  carefully in my provisional decision.  Ive therefore 
reached the same conclusions in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. Ive 
explained my reasons  again below. 
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mr P signed. On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which has a pre-printed  cross 
in it to take out the PPI. The form also has other pre-printed information on it, such  as 
Mr Ps employment and financial details. Ive thought  carefully about what Mr P has said, 
but I just dont think theres  enough  evidence to say that he wasnt given a choice. Instead 
I think that the policy was sold to Mr P during a meeting  and that the cross  in the box for 
the PPI reflected  a discussion Mr P and the adviser had before the form was finalised  
and that the form was printed to reflect what they had discussed. So overall  I think its 
most likely that Bank of Scotland made  it clear  that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant  remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN91604402Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what hes said about his sick pay, 
that he couldve relied on his family, and that the PPI didnt appear on his statements. 
However, circumstances  can change;  Im not convinced Mr P would  really  have wanted to 
rely on his family if he was unable to work or lost his job; and I dont think his sick pay 
entitlement was sufficient  to say that Bank  of Scotland  shouldnt have recommended the 
policy. The fact that the PPI didnt appear  on statements in 2006  is also consistent with what 
Id expect  because Bank of Scotland has said the policy was cancelled  in December 2003, 
and I can see that before  that date the PPI did appear on the credit  card statements. So for 
these reasons, and the reasons explained  above,  these  points  dont change  my conclusion.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr P paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr P back  some 
of the cost of the PPI  and we wrote to Mr P about  this in June 2018. Mr P should make  
contact with Bank of Scotland if he wants more  information about  this offer. I dont  think 
Bank of Scotland needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9160440