K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that DSG Financial Services Ltd (DSG) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2007, Mr R was sold a single premium PPI policy by DSG when buying a car on hire 
purchase.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr R says that he wasnt given any breakdown  of the costs of his loan and wasnt told that 
his total monthly  payments included the costs of the PPI policy. He says that PPI wasnt ever 
discussed with him. Ive no doubt that this is what Mr R thinks  happened then. But I have to 
bear in mind  that this sale took place  over ten years ago and a persons recollections  of 
financial transactions like this one can tend to fade over such long time periods.  So I need to 
look at all the information available to me to decide  what I think is most likely to have 
happened then.
DSG has provided a copy of the hire purchase  agreement that Mr R signed for his loan. And 
I can see that this shows  the extra amount he was borrowing to pay for the PPI; the interest  
that would  be charged on this additional borrowing, and the total amount  he would have to 
pay for the PPI over the whole  term of the loan.  I can also see that theres a box on the form 
which has been ticked to show  he wanted  PPI and hes signed  in the space provided under 
this selection.
DSG has also provided a copy  of a PPI Demands & Needs statement which it said was 
completed and signed  by one of its agents  during  a call with Mr R. This agent has recorded 
the answers to a number of questions Mr R was asked about his circumstances at the time.  
The agent  has also recorded on the form that Mr R chose  to take the PPI. And Ive no real 
reason for thinking that this discussion about PPI didnt take place.
So having  carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr R knew at the time that the PPI cover was optional  and that he actively agreed  to 
take it. But I can understand  why he may not remember this now.
Mr R says he cant remember whether DSG  recommended the policy to him. DSG says that 
no recommendation would have been  given. On balance, taking account of all the 
information Ive been provided with, I think its most likely that this was a non-advised sale. 
This means  that DSG didnt need to ensure that the policy  was suitable for Mr R. But it did 
still need to give him enough information  about  the policy so that he could  decide  if he 
Ref: DRN97982652wanted to take it. I can see that Mr R was given information about  the costs  of the policy. But 
I think its possible that the other information DSG gave Mr R could have  been  better  than it 
was. However, I dont think better information  would have changed his mind  about taking it. I 
say this because:
Mr R appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Mr R says he was eligible for sick pay from his employer and that he also had some  
savings that could have been  used to make his monthly loan repayments if he wasnt 
able to work. But this policy would have  paid out in addition to any other means  he had 
available. And it would have paid him for up to twelve months  on a successful claim he 
made because he wasnt able to work through accident, sickness or unemployment. So I 
still think that Mr R would  have  valued the extra security  that the policy gave  him.
Ive no reason to think the cost of the PPI policy was unaffordable  for Mr R. And he 
chose to take out the policy, so appears  to have wanted this type of cover.
If the hire purchase agreement had ended early Mr R wouldnt have been given a pro-
rata refund of the PPI premium hed been  charged. This made the policy  relatively 
inflexible. I cant be sure that this was explained  clearly to Mr R when he took out the 
policy. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that he thought he might end the agreement 
early. So this feature  of the policy didnt make  it unsuitable for him.
So whilst I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr R, I dont think  that he has lost out by 
anything that DSG  might  have done wrong  when it sold him this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
DSG Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9798265