K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Legal & General  Insurance Limiteds (L&G) handling of a 
claim they made for the collapse  of a retaining  wall in their garden. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  explaining that I wasnt  intending  to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There has been extensive background to this complaint  which I wont repeat in full 
detail here.  The key points are that Mr and Mrs B made  a claim to L&G about the 
collapse of the wall  which  they believed was caused by subsidence/landslip. The 
claim took a long time to assess as damage  was caused to several  properties  and 
ownership of the wall wasnt easy to establish. And after some  separate reports  on 
different sections of the wall, it also wasnt clear whether the wall collapsed as a 
result of age related wear and tear, which caused the soil behind  it to subside, or 
because of a landslide/landslip  of the soil behind the wall which caused it to fail. 
L&G established that Mr and Mrs B are likely  to be responsible for the entire wall. So 
it suggested that a structural  engineer should  attend  and assess  the most likely 
cause of the damage  to establish whether  the cover under the policy should be 
engaged. It suggested this because  none of the existing reports  assessed  the wall in 
its entirety, and even when combined  dont give a clear picture  of the likely  cause of 
the damage. L&G also accepted that its agents didnt always keep Mr and Mrs B up 
to date as they should have, and offered £500  compensation for this. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She thought  L&Gs 
offer of £500 was fair in respect of the communication  issues. But she also thought 
L&G had delayed the claim by around a year by not establishing ownership of the 
wall sooner. She recommended an additional £500 compensation for this. She 
agreed that L&Gs suggestion  that the wall being assessed by a structural  engineer  
was a fair way to progress the claim  providing L&G allowed Mr and Mrs B to be 
present as they requested.
L&G didnt agree that it was solely responsible  for the delays to the claim. It said 
Mr and Mrs B couldve provided their deeds sooner  than they did. But in the interest 
of progressing matters  it said it would accept our investigators recommendations.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with our investigators assessment. They said the 
compensation she suggested  wasnt sufficient  to recognise the disruption and 
distress the claim has caused them. They said they wanted L&G to cover  their legal 
fees, as they felt they had no choice  but to seek legal advice when the claim wasnt 
progressing, and they also highlighted that they were still being  pursued for £200 by 
the council for a road clearance invoice, which is something L&G shouldve  settled.
Because no agreement could  be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN92066862The further structural survey has now been  completed. The survey  wasnt  conclusive 
as to the exact cause of damage, but highlighted several possibilities that could have 
worked in isolation  or combined. The remedy the report suggested was that the wall 
should be reinstated along with a gabion basket solution.
Following the report  L&G decided to accept the claim under the extended accidental 
damage cover in Mr and Mrs Bs policy.  This means  Mr and Mrs B will pay a smaller 
excess than they would  have on a subsidence  claim. Because the actual cause of 
damage hasnt been  identified, and because it doesnt agree that it is responsible for 
all of the delays,  L&G says it no longer believes any compensation is warranted. It 
feels the offer to accept the claim  in these circumstances amounts to a fair offer of 
settlement on its own.
Mr and Mrs B dont  agree. They still feel they should  be compensated for the distress 
and inconvenience  the claim has caused  them as well as for their legal fees.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its no longer in dispute that Mr and Mrs B are responsible for the retaining wall or 
that L&G will cover  the damage.  What remains for me to decide is whether  L&Gs  
offer to accept the claim under extended  accidental damage cover in place of any 
previously offered compensation is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
structural survey
L&G still believes that the damage  to the wall was caused by gradual deterioration. 
But it doesnt believe it can strongly evidence this position, so it is prepared  to accept 
the claim under the extended  accidental  damage cover.  It says it couldnt have taken 
this approach before because it wasnt aware  that Mr and Mrs B had any liability for 
that section of the wall.
As the survey was inconclusive about  the cause of damage I dont think I can 
reasonably find that subsidence is the most likely cause,  as Mr and Mrs B had 
previously argued.  And in any case,  L&G accepting the claim as accidental damage 
means that Mr and Mrs B will pay a lower excess while receiving the same  benefit. 
So taking everything into account I think L&Gs offer in respect of the claim for the 
damaged retaining  wall is fair. 
But I disagree with L&G that this offer should  mean  that it doesnt need  to pay any 
further compensation to Mr and Mrs B. Ill explain why below addressing  each 
separate issue in turn.
communication issues and delays
All parties  agree that there have been  communication issues and delays during the 
claim. Some of the delays  were unavoidable, given  the nature of the claim and the 
number of properties initially involved.  So although  the claim has been ongoing since 
December 2017,  I dont think that means L&G need to compensate for this entire 
period. But I do agree  with our investigator that there were some avoidable delays. 
Ref: DRN92066863I say this because  it was clear from April 2018 that Mr and Mrs Bs neighbour denied  
ownership of the wall, and I can see that Mr and Mrs B were  claiming  ownership  of 
the wall in May 2018, if not before. At this stage there had already been an expert 
report that mentioned  subsidence of soil  which indicated the possibility that an 
insured event had occurred.  So I think L&G ought  to have done more to establish 
ownership of the wall at this point, if not earlier.
L&G argues  that Mr and Mrs B couldve provided the deeds to their property sooner. 
But I havent seen  any evidence to suggest that L&G specifically requested this 
information. And I dont  think  its fair to say that Mr and Mrs B should  have  known 
they needed to provide them without being  asked. Given that Mr and Mrs B did 
provide their deeds  to their neighbours surveyor when they were asked for them,  I 
think its likely that had L&G requested them sooner, they wouldve been available  
and this would have meant  the claim could have  progressed  much more quickly.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs B have told us about  the impact  
the delays and communication issues have had on them,  including  the impact  on Mr 
Bs health and the fact they and their family havent been able to enjoy full use of 
their garden. Ive also considered our services published guidance on compensation 
awards for trouble and upset. Taking  everything  into account I think  L&G should  pay 
Mr and Mrs B £1,000 compensation for these issues.
road clearance
Due to the collapse  of the wall the local council needed to come  out and clear  the 
public carriageway of some debris.  In January  2018 they issued an invoice to Mr and 
Mrs B for £519.22. L&G agreed to cover  this invoice, but appear to have initially only 
paid £319.22 in error. This resulted in the council pursuing Mr and Mrs B for the 
remaining £200. 
From what  I can see Mr and Mrs B raised  this issue with L&G on several  occasions  
and expressed their frustrations and concerns  about  having an outstanding debt in 
their name. It took L&G until September 2019  to get this invoice paid. 
I agree  that being pursued  for an amount that shouldve been paid by L&G wouldve 
been distressing  and frustrating for Mr and Mrs B. And I cant  see any reason that it 
took so long for L&G to pay the remaining balance. So taking everything into account 
I think L&G should pay Mr and Mrs B a further £200  compensation  for this issue.  
legal fees
Mr and Mrs B feel that L&G should  reimburse their legal costs.  Ive thought carefully  
about this. I appreciate the claim was progressing  slowly, and they felt they had no 
alternative but to seek advice. But from what Ive seen L&G did explain the complex 
nature of the claim and the reasons for the delays.  
Ref: DRN92066864L&G also issued several final response  letters which explained Mr and Mrs Bs rights 
to come to our service.  We dont typically award a sum for the recovery  of 
professional legal fees. This is because our service is designed to be accessible and 
informal such that legal representation is not required  in order to make a complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B could  have made  a complaint  to our service as an alternative to 
engaging the services  of a solicitor, thereby avoiding any fees. So I dont  think it 
would be fair to recommend that L&G should  reimburse these costs.
I said I was intending  to direct L&G to accept the claim under the extended  accidental  
damage cover and settle it in line with the recommendations of the structural  engineer.  
And for it to pay Mr and Mrs B £1,200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused them.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  
me to consider before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs B responded to say that they 
were prepared to accept my findings. But they had some  conditions, and some questions  
about the works that would be carried out to the wall.
L&G responded to say it didnt agree that £1,200 compensation  was warranted. It 
reiterated that it had accepted the claim despite  it feeling that there isnt clear evidence 
that an insured  event  caused the damage  and that it felt Mr and Mrs B contributed  to the 
delays. But it didnt  raise  any evidence or arguments that I hadnt already considered.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about L&Gs argument. But I dont think  it can fairly use the fact that it 
has agreed to accept the claim  as a reason not to compensate for other issues.  I say this 
because the reasoning provided to me for accepting the claim under extended accidental 
damage said:
It remains  my belief the damage is due to deterioration, but I do not feel this is a 
position we can strongly  evidence,  and although I would decline this as subsidence  
or landslip, I can see no grounds that we could justify not offering cover under  AD, as 
we cannot get more  evidence. 
L&G believes the issues are due to gradual  deterioration. In order  for it to decline the claim 
on that basis, the onus would be on L&G to show that an exclusion for gradual deterioration 
exists and applies. Based on the above it accepts it cant do this, therefore  the claim is 
payable under the extended accidental damage  cover. In these  circumstances I dont think it 
would be fair for L&Gs decision  to accept the claim to offset  its need  to compensate for the 
other issues covered  in my provisional  decision.
Mr and Mrs B said they would accept my findings,  under certain  conditions.  They  would like 
a timescale for the works to be completed  and a guarantee  that the work will be completed  
to their satisfaction. They also want to be consulted at every stage of development.
Ref: DRN92066865I understand Mr and Mrs Bs wish for a guarantee of works to their satisfaction, but that isnt 
something I intend to direct L&G to commit to. Having accepted the claim, L&G is required to 
deliver an effective and lasting repair, or to meet the cost of doing so. But it is for L&G to 
decide how it will do this, taking into account the expert recommendations it receives.  So 
long as in settling the claim L&G delivers  an effective and lasting repair, I think  that will be 
fair resolution
In my provisional decision I said L&G should settle  the claim in line with the 
recommendations of the structural engineers report it received recently. L&G has said it 
needs to instruct  a new structural engineer to complete detailed plans for the work required. I 
think is reasonable as no detailed plan for the works  yet exists.  If once a new structural  
report and plan is completed a different solution to the one previously recommended  is 
suggested I think this is fine  so long as it delivers an effective and lasing repair. 
In terms of timescales for the works, this is something I would expect L&G to communicate 
to Mr and Mrs B. I also expect it to keep Mr and Mrs B updated  throughout the process. 
Arranging for engineers and/or contractors to complete  works  can take some time. But I 
expect L&G to be mindful of the length  of time this claim has been ongoing, and to make 
every effort to arrange for the works to be completed  in good time.  Im pleased  to note L&G 
has said it is already taking steps  to progress the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B also had several questions about the specifics  of the works,  which  we put to 
L&G. It says it isnt able to answer practical questions about  how the work will be completed  
or what exactly it will look like until it appoints an engineer to put together  a detailed plan  
which it isnt doing  until it receives my final decision. It pointed out that these questions are 
claim related and do not form part of Mr and Mrs Bs original complaint  which  I think  is 
correct.
Ultimately, I think  L&Gs  offer to reassess and settle  the claim under the extended accidental 
damage cover is a fair resolution  to this complaint  providing it also pays them  £1,200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN92066866my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part.
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should:
accept the claim under the extended accidental damage cover and settle it in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
pay Mr and Mrs B £1,200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
during the claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019. 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9206686