K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the customer service hes received from Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited, which  trades as Very.
background
Mr W says he received a discount code from Very. He says he was told he could use it more than 
once. When  he was later advised  he could  only use the code once, he was very disappointed  and 
made a complaint to Very.
Mr W says hes had difficulties when speaking to Very. He said that they were  rude  to him and also 
that theyve blocked his telephone number so that he cant call them. Mr W feels  hes received poor 
customer service from Very and is upset  with  the issues  hes had ordering goods and then those 
goods not being received. Mr W has explained to our service that he struggles  to communicate in 
writing and doesnt  think  Very did enough  to support  him and provide reasonable adjustments. Hes 
also concerned that the £100 compensation already paid to him as a gesture of goodwill isnt 
enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
An investigator at our service has already looked at this complaint. Overall  he found there had been 
customer service failings by Very and he recommended Very  pay Mr W a further  £250  compensation  
in addition to the £100  it had already paid to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused. As 
Very disagreed that more  compensation should be paid, the complaint  has been passed to me to 
have another look at whats happened and make a final  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. It should  be noted that whilst Ive considered  all the evidence, this 
decision will focus on what I think are the key points in dispute.
Shop Direct  Finance  Company Limited  trading as Very has said they shouldnt be held responsible for 
certain aspects of this complaint. And instead responsibility should fall to Shop Direct Home  
Shopping Limited. Ive carefully considered the arguments raised and I dont agree.  Having  thought 
about what Mr W is complaining about, I think this case has been set up correctly.  The crux of Mr 
Ws complaint  is that hes unhappy he didnt  receive an order within set timeframes, hes unhappy  
he wasnt able to redeem a discount code when making an order  and also the general customer 
service hes received trying  to resolve these matters. So I think Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Very are responsible for this complaint.
 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr W was told by Very he could use the discount code on more than 
one order. So I cant agree  that Very did anything  wrong  here. I also cant hold Very  responsible  for 
goods not being delivered within set timeframes.  The terms  and conditions do make it clear  that 
delivery by a set date is not always  guaranteed.
I think Very gave their response to Mr Ws complaint within a reasonable timeframe.  Mr W has 
raised a concern  that Very has blocked his telephone number. But Ive not seen anything  to show 
this has happened.  Nor have  I seen any evidence  that staff at Very  were rude to Mr W.
Ref: DRN92234002Mr W has had problems when trying  to make orders, having orders cancelled, goods being out of 
stock and goods  not arriving on time. In order to see whether or not Mr W was discriminated against  
Ive carefully looked at the actions of Very. I certainly think there are questions  surrounding  whether 
Very did enough to support Mr W in light  of what  hed told them about  his disabilities. I would 
always expect reasonable  adjustments to be made in such circumstances.  I think Very  probably 
didnt go as far as they couldve done  in supporting Mr W, such  as providing audio statements and 
using coloured paper to send any account  statements out. Id remind Very  to ensure that in any 
future dealings  with  Mr W that reasonable adjustments  are made when dealing with  him.
 
Very has already issued  a cheque to Mr W for £100 compensation. But even this, I understand, 
presented issues. Mr W had to chase  for the cheque,  and as I understand, was informed of a backlog 
for sending the cheque out. Very shouldve been  clearer on this. Id imagine this issue simply made  a 
stressful situation  even more difficult for Mr W.
On everything Ive reviewed I can see that Very didnt  provide  Mr W with the level  of customer  
service which Id have expected. And Ive no doubt that these failings have caused Mr W a great deal  
of stress and upset. Mr W has explained to our service  the distress he says  hes been placed under  
from this whole matter. So I agree with  a further £250 compensation, to appropriately recognise the 
extent of the customer service failings.
my final decision
My final decision is that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited  t/a Very should pay Mr W £250 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 29 August 2020. 
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9223400