K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that her whole of life policy administered  by Old Mutual Wealth Life 
Assurance Limited will become unaffordable  because  the premiums  will increase  
considerably as she gets older. She says she wouldnt have  taken the policy if shed  been  
aware of this risk.  
background
Mrs L took out her policy in 2003. It was recommended by an Independent  Financial Adviser  
(IFA) as a suitable means by which to obtain life cover. 
In 2018 Mrs L received  details of the policys second  review  from Old Mutual (it had 
previously been  reviewed in 2013), which showed that a small premium  increase was 
needed to maintain the sum assured of just under £307,000. 
But the letter  also included  information about  the potential level of premiums  in the future. 
This showed that as Mrs L  currently in her 50s  got older  the monthly premiums would 
likely increase substantially, from the current figure of just over £68 per month to as much  as 
£1,133 by the time she was 79. This information prompted her to complain. 
Old Mutual didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it wouldve been the responsibility of 
the IFA which sold the policy to ensure it was suitable for Mrs L and that she had all the 
information she needed about the policy and its associated risks. Old Mutual  said that its 
responsibility was limited to ensuring  the policy was administered  correctly, in line with the 
terms and conditions, which it felt it had been.  Old Mutual also explained how the level of 
premium was affected by investment performance  and the ongoing cost of providing life 
cover. 
Mrs L didnt accept Old Mutuals response and referred the complaint to this service.  But our 
investigator reached much the same conclusion as that reached  by Old Mutual, and for the 
same reasons. 
Mrs L remained unhappy. She said shed been risk-averse  when  she took out the policy and 
she felt it was the insurers responsibility to make sure that IFAs selling the policies 
understood the risks involved. She didnt feel the wording  used in the documentation  at the 
time of the sale has been clear and, further,   that if the sort of information provided to her in 
2018 had been available  in 2003  she wouldnt have taken the policy  out. 
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, the matters been  referred  to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs L has made  a complaint  to the IFA business responsible  for the sale of the 
policy and that complaint  has also been  referred to this service and dealt with separately. 
So, to be clear, in this decision Im dealing solely with the role of Old Mutual as the policy 
provider  the business that administers the policy. And in that respect, Ive not seen that 
Old Mutual has done anything  other than administer  the policy correctly. 
Ref: DRN96652312I understand that the receipt of the information  about potential long-term premium levels may 
have come as a surprise to Mrs L. Its not unusual for policyholders to be shocked by the rise 
in the level of premiums  as this type of policy continues to provide  cover into older age. But 
this doesnt men that Old Mutual has done  anything wrong. In fact, it was actually being pro-
active and transparent in providing  the information,  as often policyholders only find out about  
premium increases at each policy review. 
I appreciate this will be of little comfort to Mrs L, but the figures quoted in the table do not 
strike me as particularly  unusual. They do indicate  that the premiums will be very high by the 
time Mrs L reaches her 70s. But thats  quite usual, unless steps are taken at the outset to 
ensure premiums start at a higher level  with more being invested  from the start to support 
the cost of life cover  later on. 
And its precisely this sort of information  that it wouldve  been  the responsibility  of the IFA 
selling the policy to provide and discuss with Mrs L  depending on her circumstances. For 
instance, if she was risk-averse, it mightve looked  at potential alternative ways  of obtaining 
cover that werent investment-linked.  
I appreciate that Mrs L will be disappointed that Ive reached the same view as the 
investigator. But I think her primary concerns were  related to the sale of the policy, rather 
than its ongoing  administration. And that, as noted, was not Old Mutuals  responsibility.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9665231