K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ss Egg credit card account when she applied for the card over the internet.
The PPI cost 74p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. If Mrs S had made  a 
successful claim, it would have paid 10% of her outstanding credit  card balance for up to 
12 months if she was too ill to work,  or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold  the co he adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I need to decide what  I thinks most likely  
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a screenshot of the part of the online credit card application process in which  
PPI would  have been offered to Mrs S. It includes equally prominent  options to take or 
decline PPI. Canada  Square  says Mrs S wouldn't have been  able to go ahead with her 
application unless  she chose  one of these options.
Im satisfied, on balance, that the PPI would only have been added  to Mrs Ss account if 
shed selected  the option to take it. And I think the way that the PPI was presented  
during the application  process made it clear that the cover was optional. So taking 
everything into account, I think Mrs S chose  to take the PPI, realising that she didn't  have  
to - although  I can understand  how she may no longer remember this, so many  years 
later. 
Mrs S applied for the credit card online.  Canada  Square didn't recommend the PPI to 
her, so it didn't  have  to check if it was suitable  for her. It was for Mrs S to decide whether 
to take the PPI, knowing what  other  means she had of making her credit card 
repayments if she was off sick or unable to work.
Ref: DRN97410192Mrs S has told us she cant remember how much sick pay or redundancy pay shed have 
been entitled from her employer  at the time. If shed made a successful claim on the 
policy, it would have helped with her credit card repayments each  month for up to 
12 months. I think  its likely  that thats  longer than Mrs S would have been entitled to full 
sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if shed made a successful 
unemployment claim. Whats more,  it would  have paid out in addition  to any payments 
Mrs S received from her employer. So she could have used those to meet other 
expenses. And she wouldnt have had to use her limited savings to make  her credit card 
repayments.
Ive borne in mind  that Mrs S has told us she was receiving a monthly allowance  from the 
DWP when she took out the PPI. But even  taking that into account,  I think  she could  
have struggled to make her monthly payments once any payments from her employer 
stopped. And although Mrs S has mentioned that she had critical illness  insurance, thats 
a different type of cover, and wouldn't have paid out in the same circumstances as PPI. 
So I dont think it made the PPI unsuitable  for Mrs S. And taking  everything  into account, 
I think the PPI could  have been  useful for her.
Its possible  the information Canada Square gave  Mrs S about the PPI wasn't as clear as 
it should have been. But I think Mrs S chose  to take out the policy,  so it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten  that now. Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time, it doesn't look as if shed have been 
affected by any of the main  things the policy didn't cover (for example, unusual working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions).
The cover was competitively priced.  And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mrs S couldn't 
afford it. Im satisfied  that the premiums  for the PPI were shown clearly on Mrs Ss 
monthly credit card statements. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost if her circumstances changed,  or if she 
decided she no longer  wanted the cover.
Taking  everything  into account, Im not convinced that better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mrs S off taking  it out. So I dont  think shes lost out as a result of 
anything Canada Square may have  done  wrong.
This means  that Canada Square  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
Canada  Square got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mrs S, that was unfair.
To put that right,  Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN97410193But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand its already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9741019