K820x#14complaint
Mr J says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr J bought the policy when he took out a loan in 2001. The loan included an amount to pay 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint because:
Given what we know about how HSBC sold PPI at the time, I think  that Mr J wouldve 
had to sign to indicate he wanted it  separately to where he signed  to agree to the loan. 
So I think HSBC made Mr J aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it out.
Its unclear if HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr J  but it seems  to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.   
Its possible that HSBC couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. While 
he had some sick pay and savings, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this, leaving it 
available for other things. The PPI wouldve paid out for longer than his sick pay and 
savings wouldve lasted, and also covered  unemployment. So even if HSBC had 
explained the cost of the policy better, I think Mr J would still have bought it.
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mr J made a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Mr J wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  But I havent seen  anything to suggest he thought hed repay  the loan early. 
So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt right for him  or that better  information  
about this wouldve  stopped him buying it.
Its possible that HSBC didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mr J 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr Js comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN93065912my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9306591