K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs P bought a regular  premium MPPI policy  in December 1995. The policy  covered Mrs P 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.  The mortgage  and policy ended in June 
1997.
Mrs P thinks  the MPPI policy was mis-sold  to her. She says she did not give consent to have 
the policy and was unaware until recently that she had it. She says she was always planning  
to sell the property  that she obtained her mortgage for in the short term and so the MPPI 
policy wasnt needed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Ps complaint. As she doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Ps complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Halifax to Mrs P. Ive not been able to see most of the 
original sales documentation  (such as the application form). So its been  difficult  for 
me to consider  whether Mrs P was given a choice or not as to whether she should  
have the MPPI policy (or whether  it was added  to her mortgage without her consent).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection from           
Mrs P of how the policy was sold at the time of sale either. This is completely 
understandable considering the many years that have  passed.  So taking these points 
into consideration, I cannot  fairly  conclude on this occasion that the policy  was sold in 
the way Mrs P says it was (that it was added without her consent) I just havent seen 
enough to persuade  me that this was the case. 
Moving on, I cant be sure if Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mrs P. But after 
reviewing the very limited information,  it doesnt  look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for her anyway based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.  
I say this because  although Mrs P has recently said to us that she had at least  6 
months worth of sick pay at the time, I think the policy would have come in useful in a 
time of need  over an extended period longer than 6 months. It would  have also paid 
in addition to Mrs Ps provisions. I think, on balance, Mrs P had a need for this cover.  
Ref: DRN96049632I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting  term from the 
policy documents provided that would make  the policy  unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Mrs P took out but even  though  it has provided information detailing  the cover  
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mrs P in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mrs P would have done  anything  different  and decided against having  the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs P wouldve been affected  by any of these.
Mrs P says that she was always  planning to sell the property and that for this reason the 
policy wasnt needed. But she also could have  cancelled  it at anytime and so along with the 
reasons I have given  above, I think the policy was suitable  for her. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mrs Ps complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9604963