K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement  Amtrust  Europe Limited  (Amtrust) has made  for his 
claim of malicious damage  under his residential property owner policy.
Mr W has had assistance with managing the property  from a family relation and he is also 
represented by a CMC. For ease  anything the family member or representative has said or 
done will be referred  to as Mr W.
background
Mr W was renting his property to tenants.  Following several months of them not paying  their 
rent, they were evicted in February  2018. 
When Mr W went to inspect the empty  property,  he discovered damage  to several areas  of 
the property. The majority  of the damage  thats  been  claimed  for is:
Kitchen - some units and worktop  chopped up, oven, extractor  fan and floor tiles 
missing and main water pipe left open
Bathroom - some tiles, toilet seat and bath panel missing, hole in door
Bedroom - laminate flooring and built in wardrobe missing, hole in door 
Hall & stairs  hole in wall, handrail  removed
Externally  blocked drain, damage  to downpipe
Amtrust asked Mr W to provide information to support  his claim. After it received Mr Ws 
estimate of £4,995  to repair the property,  Amtrust  decided to appoint  a loss adjuster.
The loss adjuster inspected the damage  and said that the holes in the doors and wall should 
be covered by the policy because it was caused  maliciously by the tenants. So Amtrust paid 
£800 (after deducting the £100 excess)  and paid one month of lost rent (£425) to account for 
the delay in appointing  the loss adjuster at the beginning of the claim. However,  it said the 
remaining damage wasnt malicious  and had been  caused by unfinished and/or poor quality 
renovations by the tenants and it says this isnt covered by the policy.
Mr W disagreed  with Amtrust. He questioned why the tenants would carry out renovations 
when they had been served notice to quit in October  2017  and were  evicted in February 
2018. He also questioned  how the tenants couldve afforded  to do so when  they hadnt paid 
their rent for around six months. He thought it was more likely that all the damage  was 
caused maliciously.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said he thought it was unlikely that the tenants  
who were in arrears with the rent for six months prior to the damage  being discovered, 
wouldve the funds  available to renovate. He also said he thought  it unlikely they wouldve 
been able to afford to renovate the kitchen,  bathroom and bedroom all at the same  time.
And even  if they had the money  to spare, they wouldve  known they couldve been asked to 
leave at the end of their tenancy with no guarantee of being reimbursed for the cost of the 
renovations. 
Our Investigator  thought  the quote Mr W provided  for £4,995 should be paid. As Amtrust  had 
already paid £800 and theres a £100  excess that leaves  £4,095  to pay. And because he felt 
there had been  an avoidable delay Amtrust should  add interest. He also said the policy 
covers loss of rent when the property cant be let out as a result of insured damage.  As there 
Ref: DRN90421172was damage to the kitchen and bathroom  he thinks  the property cant be let out and so 
Amtrust should pay loss of rent from the beginning of the claim until the claim settlement is 
paid  plus an allowance for the time it will take for the repairs to be carried out and he 
suggested two months  extra from date of settlement. Our investigator also thought  £250 
compensation should be paid for the distress and inconvenience the claim handling has 
caused Mr W.
Amtrust disagreed with our investigator. It said the tenants employment  income  had 
increased in September/October 2017, and as no rental  payments  were being made it 
believes the tenants wouldve used these funds  to renovate the property. So the complaint  
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case both parties have identified the areas of damage but whats in dispute is if the 
damage was caused maliciously. The only exception is the damage to the downpipe and 
blocked drain. In regards  to this I agree with our investigator. There is no clear  sign of 
damage to the downpipe  from the photos that Ive seen. And although Mr W has given an 
explanation to how he thinks it was damaged, I too dont think this would  amount  to 
malicious damage and the policy doesnt  include general accidental damage cover. So I 
wont be asking Amtrust to do anything more with regards to the downpipe.
The blocked  drain  Amtrust seems to have  accepted this was caused by the tenants  putting 
wipes down the toilet and causing a blockage. Our investigator said its not known if they did 
this with the intention to cause a problem and I too think its more likely they had been 
flushing them over time,  unaware or unconcerned  that they may cause  a problem. So I dont 
think the blockage  was malicious damage.  There is some cover for accidental damage to 
underground pipes   but the policy says only where the damage is caused by external 
means. Our Investigator  has explained  that he thinks Amtrust  should consider this claim and 
if Mr W wants to pursue  this he will need to provide the relevant information  to Amtrust for it 
to consider settlement.
With regards to the rest of the damage,  the tenants  are the only people  who know  for certain 
how the damage was caused. But as we cant find that out, Ill need to determine from the 
information provided and what I consider on balance to most likely  to have happened.
Generally we will consider  damage  to be malicious if the person who damaged the property 
intended to do harm. In this case what the argument really comes down to is the damage  a 
result of refurbishment or malicious damage?
Both parties  have used  the lack of rental  payments as part of their reasoning to support their 
view of what happened. Mr W says if the tenants were not able to afford to pay the rent and 
bills how could theyve afforded to do refurbishment and why would they do this when notice 
had been placed on them to leave the property. Amtrust say because they werent paying 
the rent and one of the tenants looked  to be back in employment in September/October they 
wouldve had spare money to do the refurbishment and that its not uncommon for tenants to 
want to make their home more aesthetically pleasing to live in.
Ref: DRN90421173There is no way to know for sure what state the tenants finances were  in. But for the first six 
months the rent was being paid via the council as the tenants were in receipt  of benefits. It 
looks like the benefits were reviewed in September/October after one of the tenants got part 
time employment, so the benefit payments were  reduced and payments for rent stopped. So 
even if the tenants  now had some  additional  income, and wanted to spend this money on 
doing up the property I think the income  wouldve been a limited amount - one tenant 
working part time the other not in work and they were still in receipt  of some benefit. So I 
think its highly unlikely  they wouldve had enough funds to refurbish the kitchen, bathroom, 
and bedroom  all at the same  time.
Ive also considered the photos provided  by both parties and I can see that the lounge has 
been decorated  by the tenants. Albeit  not carefully  - as light switches  and plug sockets were 
painted over. So I can understand Amtrusts point regarding the tenants doing  renovation  
work. But I think there is a big difference from doing  some painting and decorating to 
removing and chopping up kitchen cupboards, removing the oven and extractor and taking 
tiles off the walls etc. I also note the damage  is across several  rooms.  I think  on balance its 
unlikely that the tenants wouldve been undertaking such  major  work throughout the whole 
property without permission and with limited funds.  
Replacing a kitchen  is also not something I would expect a tenant  to be doing.  I say this 
because kitchens can be quite costly and I think its unusual for a tenant to do this kind of 
work without  seeking permission  from the landlord. There would be no guarantee that their 
tenancy would be renewed or extended, especially as their rental  agreement  was agreed for 
six months at a time.  These  tenants  had been  in the property for a year and for the latter six 
months they hadnt  paid the rent. 
Mr W had also met with the tenants in June and August  to discuss the lack of rental  
payments and he has told us there were no problems identified  with the property with 
exception that the lounge  had been  decorated. So I believe the tenants  were fully aware that 
they knew they could, and as of October would be asked to leave the property for not paying  
the rent. So on balance  I think  it more likely  than not that the tenants did intend to do harm 
and the damage  and missing items  is therefore  malicious damage.  Amtrust should pay the 
quote Mr W provided for £4,995 minus the £800 Amtrust has already paid and theres a 
£100 excess that leaves £4,095 to pay. Amtrust  should add 8% simple interest from date of 
claim to the date of settlement. 
The policy also covers loss of rent when the property cant be let out as a result of insured 
damage. There was damage to the kitchen and bathroom so the property couldnt be let out. 
Amtrust should pay loss of rent from the beginning of the claim until the date of settlement   
plus an allowance for the time it will take for the repairs  to be carried  out. I agree with our 
investigator that two months extra should be included in the settlement. I'm aware the policy 
has a limit of 12 months of loss of rent. What I've suggested will mean the payments go 
beyond that limit. But I think that would be the fair thing to do because the only reason  the 
limit would be exceeded is due to delays  Amtrust  couldve  avoided.  However, I wont be 
asking Amtust to pay interest on this amount  as I think  the additional two months  to allow  
time for the repairs  is adequate.
Mr W has been unwell throughout this claim  and although I cant say that the handling of this 
claim alone has caused his illness, it has certainly added  to his stress and anxiety. He has 
indicated he is getting into financial  difficulties as he cant afford to do the repairs  and he has 
also lost the rental income. So I think declining the majority of the claim has caused him 
distress. Amtrust  should pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN90421174my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and Amtrust  Europe Limited should:
Pay £4,095  plus 8% simple per year , from date of claim to the date of settlement
Pay loss of rent from the beginning of the claim until date of settlement plus an 
additional two months  to allow  the repairs to be completed.
Pay £250 compensation for the trouble  and upset.  Amtrust must pay the 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr W accepts  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Amtrust Europe  Limited to take off tax from this interest. If 
it deducts tax it must give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one
Ref: DRN9042117