K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the management and administration  of his trading account by 
CMC Markets UK plc (CMC).
background
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who concluded that CMC had 
done nothing wrong in its administration and management of Mr Ms trading account.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusion and so his complaint has been passed to 
me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can confirm that Ive 
come to the same overall conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons. 
There is also very little I can usefully add to what  has already been  said.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Between April and December 2018  Mr M opened and closed over 5,000 trades, the majority 
of which  were in foreign  exchange pairs. A very small number of these trades (less than 100) 
were closed by CMC.
Mr M complains that the markets in which he trades move  quickly  making it very difficult for 
him to take profits, or limit losses. But Im satisfied that Mr M understood, or ought to have  
understood, this when  he opened his account and before he commenced trading. Therefore 
I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M says that he is unable to trade 24/7 and this makes it very difficult  for him to take 
profits, or limit losses. But Im satisfied that Mr M understood, or ought to have understood, 
that for certain products  he could only trade  during certain hours, these generally being the 
hours the relevant market is open. Therefore I dont uphold  this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M says that CMC have  manipulated prices and spreads to its advantage and his 
disadvantage. Notwithstanding  that this is a very serious accusation Ive seen nothing,  other 
than Mr Ms own testimony, that this is the case. I also think  CMC is right when it says Mr M 
might be miscalculating the spread he is being  quoted by having regard to the price 
difference at five decimal places rather than four decimal places. I would also add that its 
not unusual for a spread  to widen and narrow over time meaning that an offered  spread 
when a trade is closed  might be wider or narrower than the spread that was offered when 
the trade was opened. Therefore I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN98500282I can see that Mr M has queried the price at which a number of his trades were closed by 
CMC. Ive looked at some  of these trades and cant see that CMC has done anything  wrong  
in respect of them. As CMC has pointed out there  will be occasions, especially in a fast 
moving market, that the close price achieved might  be more than, or less than, the quoted 
price when the close was triggered. I would also add that in respect  of the closed trades Ive 
looked at, Ive seen nothing to suggest that CMC was wrong to close them (Mr M being  in 
breach of margin at the material time), or that CMC acted incorrectly  in not giving Mr M 
notice of its intention  to close some of these trades. Therefore I dont uphold this aspect  of 
Mr Ms complaint.
Given what I say above Im not persuaded that in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint CMC has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr M doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
CMC Markets UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9850028