K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank failed 
to process a balance transfer to her new credit  card. She says this mistake cost her £200 in 
interest charges  and a non-payment penalty.
background
Mrs G says that M&S Bank didnt give her clear  information about its balance  transfer  
service and she says the banks failings cost her £200. Mrs G told us:
she took out a credit  card with M&S Bank  February 2019 in order to complete  a 
balance transfer  and the bank  gave her a £4,000  credit limit.
she completed a £4,000 balance transfer from another credit  card and thought the 
transaction had completed successfully.
it wasnt until she received her next monthly  credit card statement from the other 
bank that she realised the balance transfer hadnt been successful. This statement  
included a fine for not making a monthly payment together with interest on the 
outstanding balance.
she did everything correctly and has lost out because  the account  terms and 
conditions werent clear and the bank didnt tell her it hadnt processed her balance  
transfer.
Mrs G wants M&S Bank to pay her £200  for the mistake it made  which cost her £200 in fees 
and interest.
M&S Bank rejected this complaint. It says when Mrs G applied  for her credit  card online, it 
told her about the fees that would  be charged if she wanted to complete a balance transfer 
from another credit card. And it says it told her that the total transfer, including  fees,  had to 
be within her available credit limit.
The bank said it sends  a secure message to customers to update them  on the status  of any 
balance transfer.  And on this occasion it sent Mrs G a secure  message asking her to contact 
the bank because her balance  transfer  had failed  she had insufficient available  credit for 
the transfer and the balance transfer  fee.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that she thought the bank had made  Mrs G aware that the balance transfer fee 
would be included in the credit limit. And she was satisfied  it had contacted Mrs G when the 
balance transfer  couldnt be processed.
Mrs G disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mrs G says it wasnt  clear to her 
that the balance transfer  fee needed to be included within her available credit limit. And 
because she doesnt log in to her online account regularly, she didnt see the banks secure  
message  she says the bank shouldve emailed  her instead.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Mrs G that 
I think the investigator reached  the right outcome  here. And I think she set out the position 
very clearly so theres  very little I can usefully add to whats  already been  said.
Ref: DRN94721052The crux of this complaint is whether M&S  Bank acted fairly  and reasonably when it failed to 
process Mrs Gs balance  transfer. The bank says when Mrs G applied for the credit card, it 
told her that any balance transfer, including the balance transfer fee, had to be within her 
available credit limit. But Mrs G disputes this  she says the information  about balance 
transfer fees and credit  limits was unclear and says the way this is presented  should  be 
changed.
With this in mind, Ive thought about  whether the information about  fees for balance transfers
is ambiguous and potentially misleading to customers. But Id like to make it clear to Mrs G
that our service cant tell a bank how information  should be presented to a customer on its
website or in the documentation it produces because thats a matter  for the regulator, the
Financial Conduct  Authority. So, I dont have the power to tell M&S  Bank  to change the way 
it presents balance transfer information  to its customers  in the way Mrs G would like.
Ive been given screenshots taken from the M&S  Bank  website and Im satisfied that this 
sets out clearly the balance transfer  deal available to the customer together with the balance 
transfer fee that applies, in this case 2.9%.  The screenshot  then says The total transfer 
including fees must  be within your available credit limit. You can check your available credit 
on the Account  Summary  page.
So, based  on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that at the point of undertaking a balance  
transfer, M&S Bank  provided clear  and unambiguous information to customers that a fee 
would be charged  and that the fee would form part of the total balance being  transferred.
Im also satisfied that M&S bank made reasonable efforts to inform Mrs G that her balance 
transfer hadnt been processed  it says it sends customers secure  messages about  their 
balance transfers  to their online account. I appreciate that Mrs G may not wish to log onto 
her online account  regularly and might prefer that the bank email her instead.  But thats not 
something I can instruct the bank to do.
I know that Mrs G will be disappointed by this decision and I appreciate the reasons  why she
brought her complaint  to our service. But Im satisfied that M&S Bank didnt do anything  
wrong and I cant fairly ask it to pay her compensation in respect of the fee and interest  
charge levied on her other credit card account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9472105