K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms unhappy that U K Insurance  Limited  has cancelled his motor insurance policy from its 
start for misrepresentation.
 
background
UKI said in its final response that Mr M took out the policy online. When doing  so he gave 
information about his circumstances and his car. But during its claims validation process it 
had reason to believe  some  of the information given was incorrect.  And a quote manipulation 
report showed Mr M had obtained 15 different quotes giving varying  information  each time.  
Some quotes gave  correct information  but the one he accepted was based on inaccurate 
information. There was a deliberate misrepresentation and its correctly cancelled  Mr Ms 
policy from the start and retained the premiums  he paid. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
An insurer relies on the information its given when a policy is taken out as being 
accurate. If it isnt, it is denied the opportunity to adequately assess the risk. 
UKI has provided a copy of its quote  manipulation  report. This shows  Mr M gave 
differing information  when he obtained  a large  number  of different quotes. All of this 
information affected the risk and the premiums UKI offered. Mr M accepted  a quote 
for a lower premium  provided on the basis of some incorrect information.  
Because of this UKI has reasonably concluded  Mr M deliberately  manipulated the 
information given  to save some money. And it has acted  fairly by cancelling the 
policy from the start. 
In the event of a third party making  a claim UKI could still be responsible for covering 
the third partys costs.  So its fair for it to retain the premiums  Mr M paid. And if a 
claim is made it will also be entitled to recover from Mr M anything more  it pays out.
UKI has treated  Mr M fairly including when  dealing with him on the phone.
Mr M remained unhappy and said UKI was using every excuse possible to decline his 
insurance. He paid it £400 to correct the wrong information after his accident and it then 
declined the claim  after taking the money. He wants a full refund as the insurance was only 
in place for a few weeks and he hasnt had any benefit from it. 
The investigator responded that UKI says the additional premium was to reflect  that a named 
driver was Mr Ms mother not his wife. It was a month after this was paid that it found  more 
discrepancies in the information Mr M had given.
 
Mr M remains unhappy and says the additional  premium was to rectify the incorrect  
information he gave.  He wants a refund. He has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN93305572I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
UKI has evidence that Mr M obtained a number of quotes before taking out the policy. He 
obtained them by providing varying  and different information each time. This wouldve meant 
the premiums he was quoted varied  to reflect the information hed provided each time. The 
quote Mr M subsequently  and eventually accepted  was based on incorrect information.
I think UKI acted reasonably by concluding  this was a deliberate attempt by Mr M to 
manipulate the premium  he was offered so he could save some money.
Mr M says he paid UKI around  an extra £400 of premium to correct the information hed 
given. But that isnt born out by UKIs system notes. They clearly show the additional 
premium was paid to reflect the fact that a named  driver was in fact his mother  not his wife.
Taking everything into account  I dont think UKI has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by 
deciding to cancel  Mr Ms insurance  from the start by reason of misrepresentation.
Mr M would also like his premium  refunded.  But that wouldnt be fair as UKI may still have to 
pay out on a third partys  claim if one is made.  Its therefore fair for it to retain Mr Ms 
premiums as a result.
Overall I dont think UKI has done  anything wrong and I dont see any reason to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9330557