K822xcomplaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain  about the repairs Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) made  
to their van after a claim on their motor insurance  policy. They want the repairs  rectified and 
compensation for their inconvenience.
background 
Mrs B is the policy holder  and Mr B is a named  driver  on the policy.  RSA took Mrs Bs van 
for repairs following  an accident. When it was returned, Mr B was unhappy with the repairs.  
RSA had an independent engineer inspect the van. He identified 15 rectification points. RSA 
agreed to have these  done and paid Mrs B £50 compensation for the delay in the claim. The 
garage agreed to repair some non-accident-related damage at half the cost.  But Mr B said 
that 7 of the 15 points remained unrectified. The independent engineer RSA appointed 
agreed. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
remaining repairs should be carried out and checked by the independent engineer  before 
the van was again returned to Mrs B. She thought RSA should pay Mrs B £150 more for the 
inconvenience caused by the excessive time it had taken  to deal with the claim.
RSA agreed to do this. It said the garage  had already waived half of about £700  in repair  
costs for items not related to the claim.  But Mrs B thought RSA should pay £500 
compensation and provide a letter of apology for its level of service. She was unhappy that 
the van hadnt been repaired to its pre-accident standard. She said a whining sound from the 
engine had started after the accident  but this hadnt been investigated. She provided 
photographs of further damage  that she said hadnt  been properly rectified. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs accident was in July 2018.  The van was collected by the repairers a week later.  The 
van was returned  to Mrs B and Mr B almost three months afterwards. RSA said this delay 
was due to a back order for parts.  Mr B said the repairs werent satisfactory.
We dont assess whether how damage to a vehicle would be caused  as this is a matter for 
the experts in these  situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these  
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  to not pay for additional repairs.
When there is a dispute about repairs our approach is that an independent  engineer should 
be appointed to assess them. I can see that RSA did this in November 2018  and he found 
15 points for rectification, one of which he said was due to wear and tear rather  than due to 
the garage. RSA agreed for the repairs to be rectified. 
The garage then took the van back in January 2019 and Mr B collected it six weeks later. 
But Mr B said 7 of the 15 points hadnt been  rectified. I can see that he sent photographs to 
RSA and the garage, but they didnt respond to him. As this still relates to his original  
complaint and isnt a new issue, I think  I can reasonably consider this here. 
Ref: DRN97326102I cant see from RSAs file why it didnt respond to Mr Bs email.  After the complaint came to 
us, RSA again appointed  an independent  engineer in May 2019 who agreed  with Mr B and 
found that only 6 of the original 15 points  had been  resolved.  And he found other concerns.
RSA agreed in June  2019  to have these outstanding  points rectified and then signed off by 
the independent engineer. I can see that Mr B said he would  make  sure this happened. But I 
cant see that he returned his van to the garage  for the further  repairs.  The garage  said they 
hadnt heard  from Mr B. So I cant reasonably  hold RSA responsible for the delay  in the 
claim from this point.  
The van has already been back to the garage once.  I think that if the further  rectification 
work isnt carried out satisfactorily then RSA should allow Mr B to have the agreed  repairs  
made at a garage  of his choice. Ive already asked RSA to consider this and it hasnt 
objected. 
Mr B also said that RSA wouldnt pay for repairs which he said were accident related, but 
which RSA said were  due to wear and tear or unrelated to the accident. These were damage 
to the door, sill and engine noise. 
I can see that RSA relied on the independent engineers  report and its in-house engineer to 
decide this. I can see that RSA invited Mrs B to provide her own engineers  report  on these 
points but she didnt provide this. I cant see any other independent  expert evidence that 
RSA should have considered. So I think it justified its decision not to pay for the additional  
repairs. 
In any case, I can see that Mrs B had the benefit of half the cost of additional repairs, 
including some of the above, made  as a gesture of goodwill by the repairing garage. In the 
circumstances, I think  that was fair and reasonable to compensate Mrs B for the trouble and 
upset caused  by having to return the van. 
However, I think RSA took an excessive  amount  of time to deal with this claim.  I think it 
should have been resolved in October  2018, when  the van was first returned by the garage.  
It then took a further four months for the first rectification work to be done. At this point,  I 
think the van was roadworthy, based  on the second engineers report, although  Mrs B didnt 
use it. It was a further three months  before RSA agreed for a second engineers  report. 
I think RSA should  reasonably compensate  Mrs B for the trouble and upset caused by these  
delays, not responding to Mr Bs email,  and having  to have the van returned twice for 
rectification. The adjudicator recommended  RSA should pay a further £150 (£200 in total)  
compensation for this. 
I can understand that Mrs B feels that this doesnt compensate  them for the stress caused. 
But I think, taking  into account the discounted  repair work done, that this is fair and 
reasonable. Its in keeping  with what Id require in similar circumstances. So I dont  require 
RSA to increase  this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to do the following,  as its already agreed  to do:
Ref: DRN973261031.Pay for the rectification of the outstanding  points  from the independent engineers report 
and have these  signed off by an independent engineer.  
2.If further rectification  is then required, RSA should offer to pay for this to be done  at a 
garage of Mrs Bs choice.  
3.Pay Mrs B £150 further  compensation (£200 in total)  for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by the delays  in its handling  of her claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  22 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9732610