K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax hasnt treated him properly in 
relation to a shortfall debt following the sale of his property in 2008. Mr H would like the debt 
written off.
background
Mr H and his partner  had a mortgage  with Halifax. Halifax got an order for possession of the 
property in August  2008 together with a monetary  order. The property was then repossessed  
in October 2008  and sold, and Halifax says there is a shortfall  of £20,526.23. Halifax  passed 
the matter of recovering the shortfall debt to a firm of solicitors and in January 2013 Mr H got 
a letter  from that firm. In January 2013, Mr H wrote to Halifax  with a data Subject Access 
Request (SAR) looking for information  about  the debt and the mortgage. 
Halifax wrote  back  on 18 February 2013  with a letter referring  to PPI but not responding to 
the enquiries in Mr Hs request. In June 2014,  Mr H got a letter from another  firm of solicitors  
on behalf of Halifax  and Mr H repeated  his SAR but got no response. On 30 May 2018 Mr H 
got a letter  from a firm of debt recovery agents  on behalf of Halifax. Mr H wrote to Halifax 
and to the debt recovery  agents  saying that the debt was in dispute and made  a complaint.
Our adjudicator said that there were two complaints here. Firstly Mr H made two SAR 
applications in 2013 and 2014 which in his view Halifax  didnt  adequately  respond to. So he 
believed that Halifax should pay Mr H compensation of £100  for the poor service  and it 
should respond to the SAR. But our investigator felt that Mr H owed a shortfall debt to 
Halifax and Halifax hadnt acted unfairly by appointing agents  to collect the debt. So, our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that this part of the complaint  should  be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax obtained an order for possession against Mr H and the joint borrower on 6 August 
2008. According to the terms of the Order, Mr H was to give up possession  of the property to 
Halifax. Halifax also got a money judgement for £99,496.24.  I note that under the terms of 
the order the monetary judgement it is not to be enforced without permission. Halifax  got 
possession of the property in October  2008  and sold it in February  2009. Halifax has shown  
me a closing statement sent to Mr H and the other borrower at separate  addresses on 
2 April 2009. This shows that after the sale of the property, the shortfall  between  the 
outstanding debt and the net sales proceeds was £20,526.23. 
That is the shortfall debt that Halifax says is due from Mr H. I understand that the other 
borrower may be bankrupt. We sent the court order and the closing statement by email  to Mr 
H on 20 June 2019 and invited his comments. But Mr H didnt send us any further comments 
or request an extension  of time to do so. Ive proceeded to make my decision on the 
evidence available  to me.
Halifax seems  to have instructed a firm of solicitors to collect this debt some four years after 
the debt became due. This is within the time allowed  by the regulations. Mr Hs response 
Ref: DRN90245512was in January  2013 to send Halifax a SAR which asked for an amount of information 
relevant to the mortgage and how the debt arose. Mr H sent a £10 postal order.  Halifax 
responded to the request  as if it was a PPI query  and returned his postal order.  Mr H 
renewed his request for this information  in June 2014 when he heard  from another  firm of 
solicitors acting on behalf of Halifax. Mr H didnt hear further from Halifax  until he got a letter  
from Halifaxs agents in May 2018.  
This service is not the appropriate one to deal with any concerns Mr H has about compliance  
with the regulations surrounding access to information. That would rightly be the Information 
Commissioners Office.  However, what we can consider is the service Halifax provided to Mr 
H and how it affected him.
Mr H asked for information about his mortgage and how the debt arose and he clearly 
deserved a response. Halifax provided no reasonable explanation as to why the enquiry 
wasnt responded to. I believe that this must have caused Mr H some annoyance but I note 
that its not a matter  that he followed up at any length. So, I would agree with our adjudicator 
that the proper  remedy  is that Halifax pay compensation of £100 for the annoyance and 
inconvenience Mr H suffered. It should  also deal with Mr Hs enquiries.
The other matter is whether Halifax is entitled  to pursue this debt. I note that there  is a court  
judgement, and Halifax has provided evidence  that there is a post-sale shortfall. It may be 
that when Halifax  has responded  to Mr Hs enquiries he has other issues  that he may wish to 
raise, but at this stage  I know of no reason why it shouldnt be able to try to collect its debt.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct  that Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax respond  to the enquiries raised in Mr Hs Subject Access Request and pay him 
compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9024551